RISK FACTORS Risks relating to ownership of our ADSs As a foreign private issuer, we are not required to comply with the notice and disclosure requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, relating to the solicitation of proxies for shareholder meetings. Although we are subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the periodic disclosure required of non-U.S. issuers under the Exchange Act is more limited than the periodic disclosure required of U.S. issuers. Therefore, there may be less publicly available information about us than is regularly published by or about most other public companies in the United States. Judgments of U.S. courts, including those predicated on the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States in French courts, may not be enforceable against us. An investor located in the United States may find it difficult to: · effect service of process within the United States against us and our non-U.S. resident directors and officers; · enforce U.S. court judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our non-U.S. resident directors and officers in both the United States and France; and · bring an original action in a French court to enforce liabilities based upon the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our non-U.S. resident directors and officers. Preemptive rights may not be available for U.S. persons. Under French law, shareholders have preemptive rights to subscribe for cash issuances of new shares or other securities giving rights to acquire additional shares on a pro rata basis. U.S. holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares may not be able to exercise preemptive rights for their shares unless a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 is effective with respect to such rights or an exemption from the registration requirements imposed by the Securities Act is available. We may, from time to time, issue new shares or other securities giving rights to acquire additional shares at a time when no registration statement is in effect and no Securities Act exemption is available. If so, U.S. holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares will be unable to exercise their preemptive rights. 22 Table of Contents Information about the Group 4 4.1 General 24 4.2 History and development 24 4.3 Structure of the main consolidated companies as of December 31, 2014 28 4.4 Real estate and equipment 29 4.5 Material contracts 30 23 Table of Contents 4 INFORMATION ABOUT THE GROUP General 4.1 General Alcatel-Lucent is a French société anonyme, established in 1898, originally as a listed company named Compagnie Générale d’Électricité. Our corporate existence will continue until June 30, 2086, which date may be extended by shareholder vote. We are subject to all laws governing business corporations in France, specifically the provisions of the commercial code and the financial and monetary code. Effective as of May 19, 2014, our registered office and principal place of business is 148/150 route de la Reine 92100 Boulogne-Billancourt, France. Our telephone number is +33 (0)1 55 14 10 10 and our website address is www.alcatel-lucent.com. The contents of our website are not incorporated into this document. The address for Barbara Larsen, our authorized representative in the United States, is Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc., 600 Mountain Avenue, Murray Hill, New Jersey 07974. 4.2 History and development Recent events 2014 dividend. Our Board has determined not to pay a dividend on our ordinary shares and ADSs based on 2014 results. Our Board will present this proposal at our Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on May 26, 2015. Partnership with Louis Dreyfus Armateurs. On March 18, 2015 we entered into a new partnership agreement with Louis Dreyfus Armateurs (LDA) for our submarine cables activity. Our subsidiary Alcatel-Lucent Submarine Networks acquired 100% of the shares of ALDA Marine, our former joint-venture with LDA. LDA remains our strategic marine partner. Highlights of transactions during 2014 Disposals Disposal of cyber-security services. On December 31, 2014, we completed the disposal of our cyber-security services & solutions and communications security activities to Thales for a cash price of €41 million. Disposal of Alcatel Lucent Enterprise. On September 30, 2014, Alcatel Lucent completed the disposal of 85% of its Enterprise business to China Huaxin, following the binding offer received early February 2014, for a cash price of €205 million. Disposal of LGS. On March 31, 2014, we completed the disposal of LGS Innovations LLC to a U.S.-based company owned by a Madison Dearborn Partners-led investor group that includes CoVant, for a cash price of U.S.$110 million (€81 million) after working capital adjustment. The agreement includes an earnout of up to U.S.$100 million, based on the divested company’s results of operations for the 2014 fiscal year, but for which we are not expecting to receive a significant amount. Other matters Repayment of Senior Secured Credit Facility. On August 19, 2014, using the proceeds of the OCEANE 2019 and 2020 described below, together with cash, we repaid the remaining U.S.$1,724 million outstanding of the Senior Secured Credit Facility due 2019. Tender offer on Senior Notes 2016. On June 24, 2014, we launched a tender offer on our Alcatel-Lucent 8.50% Senior Notes due 2016. On July 4, 2014, we accepted for purchase an aggregate nominal amount of Senior Notes 2016 of €210 million for a total cash amount of €235 million. The notes tendered in the offer were cancelled. In addition, during the second quarter of 2014, a nominal amount of €19 million of the Senior Notes 2016 was bought back and cancelled for a cash amount of €22 million. Similarly, during the fourth quarter of 2014, a €3 million nominal amount of the Senior Notes 2016 was also bought back and cancelled for a cash amount of €3 million. As a result, the outstanding aggregate nominal amount for the Senior Notes 2016 is €192 million as of December 31, 2014. Issuance of OCEANE 2019 and 2020. On June 2, 2014, we launched an offering of OCEANE (OCEANE are bonds convertible into, and/or exchangeable for, new or existing shares of Alcatel Lucent). On June 10, 2014, we issued convertible / exchangeable bonds in two tranches: · The first tranche due January 30, 2019 for a nominal value of €688 million. The conversion price per bond was set at €4.11, giving a conversion premium of approximately 40% over Alcatel-Lucent’s reference share price on the regulated market Euronext in Paris; · The second tranche due January 30, 2020 for a nominal value of €460 million. The conversion price per bond was set at €4.02, giving a conversion premium of approximately 37% over Alcatel-Lucent’s reference share price on the regulated market Euronext in Paris The bonds bear interest at an annual rate of 0.00% and 0.125% respectively, payable semi-annually in arrears on January 30th, and July 30th, commencing January 30, 2015. At our option, the bonds may be subject to early redemption under certain conditions. The proceeds were used, together with available cash, to reimburse the remaining tranche of the 2013 Senior Secured Credit Facility entered into by Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. as borrower. The purpose of the issuance was also to contribute to the extension of the maturity of our debt and to reduce the cost of indebtedness. Repayment of 6.375% Senior Notes. On April 7, 2014, we repaid on the maturity date the remaining €274 million outstanding of the 6.375% Senior Notes. 24 Table of Contents INFORMATION ABOUT THE GROUP History and development Repayment of convertible trust preferred securities. On January 13, 2014, we repaid in full the U.S.$931 million principal amount outstanding of the Lucent Technologies Capital Trust I 7.75% convertible trust preferred securities due 2017. Changes in credit ratings. On November 17, 2014, Moody’s changed the outlook on Alcatel-Lucent and Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. to Positive from Stable, and affirmed the B3 ratings. On August 18, 2014, Standard & Poor’s raised its corporate credit ratings on Alcatel-Lucent and Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. from B- to B. The unsecured bonds issued by the Group were also upgraded, from CCC+/B- to B. The Outlook was changed from Positive to Stable. FCPA investigations. In December 2010 we entered into final settlement agreements with the SEC and the DOJ regarding violations and alleged violations of the FCPA. We signed a deferred prosecution agreement (“DPA”) with the DOJ, pursuant to which the prosecution would be deferred for a term of three years and seven days, with the possibility of a one-year extension at the sole discretion of the DOJ. The DPA entered into effect on December 27, 2010, the date the DOJ filed the charging document with the court. Among other things, the DPA contained provisions requiring the engagement of a French anticorruption compliance monitor (the “Monitor”) for three years. Similarly, under the agreement with the SEC, we agreed, among other things, to engage a Monitor for three years. In June 2014, following discussions with the Monitor, the DOJ and the SEC, we agreed to a six-month extension of the monitorship until December 31, 2014 to provide the Monitor with additional time to confirm certain improvements to our compliance systems. On December 8, 2014, the Monitor submitted his final report and certified that Alcatel Lucent’s compliance program, including its policies and procedures, is reasonably designed and implemented to prevent and detect violations of anti-corruption laws within Alcatel Lucent as defined in and required by the DPA. Following receipt of the Monitor’s final report, the DOJ filed a motion to dismiss with prejudice the FCPA charges underlying the DPA, which the court granted on February 9, 2015. Outsourcing agreement with HCL. On July 1, 2014, in connection with the targeted cost savings of The Shift Plan, we entered into a 7-year Master Service Agreement with HCL Technologies Limited regarding the transfer of a part of our R&D department for certain wireless legacy technologies. For further details, please refer to Section 6.5 “Contractual obligations and off-balance sheet contingent commitments”, sub-section “Outsourcing transactions,” and to Note 28 to our consolidated financial statements. Outsourcing agreement with Accenture. On February 28, 2014, in connection with the targeted cost savings of The Shift Plan, we entered into a 7-year service implementation agreement with Accenture regarding the business transformation of our finance function, including the outsourcing of our accounting function. This agreement supplements two similar service agreements with Accenture regarding human resources and information technology. For further details, please refer to Section 6.5 “Contractual obligations and off-balance sheet contingent commitments,” sub-section “Outsourcing transactions,” and to Note 28 to our consolidated financial statements. Significant shareholding. According to the notification filed with the French securities market authorities and sent to Alcatel-Lucent on April 21, 2014, the Capital Group Companies, Inc.- (USA) holds, after acquiring a significant shareholding in Alcatel Lucent, a total of 290,280,811 shares of Alcatel Lucent, representing 10.31% of our capital and 10.14% of the voting rights. Highlights of transactions during 2013 Appointment of new CEO, CFO, and Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors. On February 22, 2013, we announced the nomination of Mr. Michel Combes as Chief Executive Officer (CEO) effective on April 1, 2013. His nomination as Director was approved at our Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on May 7, 2013. He succeeded Mr. Ben Verwaayen, who had decided not to seek re-election as a Director at such meeting and stepped down as CEO. On February 22, 2013, our Board of Directors approved the appointment of Mr. Jean C. Monty as Vice-Chairman of the Board, effective immediately. On August 28, 2013, we announced the nomination of Mr. Jean Raby as Chief Financial & Legal Officer effective on September 1, 2013. Launch of The Shift Plan. On June 19, 2013, we launched The Shift Plan which, upon implementation, is designed to transform our Company into an IP and cloud networking and ultra-broadband specialist refocused on innovation, transformation and unlocking growth to become a cash generative business from 2015. The details and objectives of The Shift Plan are described in Section 6.6 “Strategy and Outlook”, contained in this report. As part of The Shift Plan, a new organization comprised of three reportable segments, Core Networking, Access and Other, became effective as of July 1, 2013. For further details on the breakdown about the new organization, please refer to Section 5.1 “Business Organization”, sub-section “Organization,” and to Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements. Completion, repricing and termination of multi-year financing commitments. On January 30, 2013, we entered into three Senior Secured Credit Facilities totaling approximately €2 billion. In connection with that transaction, our then existing unsecured revolving credit facility was terminated. We later terminated all of these facilities, as discussed in further detail under Section 6.4 “Liquidity and capital resources.” Rights issuance. As part of the implementation of The Shift Plan, in December 2013 we increased our capital with a rights offering guaranteed by a bank syndicate. The rights offering raised €957 million (including the issue premium), through the issuance of 455,568,488 new ordinary shares. Issuance of notes and convertible bonds, and repurchases of notes and convertible bonds. On April 30, 2013, we made a cash tender offer to repurchase our 6.375% Senior Notes due 2014, our 2015 OCEANE, and our 8.50% Senior Notes due 2016. (OCEANE are bonds convertible into, and/or exchangeable for, new or existing shares of Alcatel Lucent). As a result, in May and June 2013, we repurchased and cancelled notes and OCEANE having an aggregate nominal value of €446 million. 25 Table of Contents 4 INFORMATION ABOUT THE GROUP History and development On May 14, 2013, Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. launched an offer to purchase its 2.875% Series B convertible debentures due in 2025, as required under the terms of the indenture, due to the June 15, 2013 optional redemption date. On June 15, 2013, Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. repurchased and cancelled a principal amount of U.S.$764 million of such debentures, representing approximately 99.8% of the debentures outstanding. On June 26, 2013, as a first measure under The Shift Plan toward the objective of reprofiling our debt, we launched an offering of OCEANE. The OCEANE mature on July 1, 2018, bear a 4.25% annual interest rate, and have an initial conversion price of €1.80, equivalent to a conversion premium of approximately 37% over the reference share price of Alcatel-Lucent. The proceeds of this offering, closed on July 3, 2013, were approximately €621 million, with a nominal value of €629 million. We used the proceeds of this offering to repurchase and cancel some of our existing 5.00% OCEANE due 2015. We paid approximately €780 million in total for such repurchases. In December 2013, a portion of the then outstanding 2015 OCEANE was converted into €48 million of Alcatel-Lucent ordinary shares, and we repaid the remaining part of the 2015 OCEANE for €11 million. Following the rights offering described above, due to the anti-dilution provisions of the OCEANE 2018, the exchange ratio, which was one Alcatel-Lucent share with a nominal value of €2.00 for one OCEANE 2018, was adjusted to 1.06 Alcatel-Lucent shares with a nominal value of €0.05 for one OCEANE 2018, effective December 9, 2013. The conversion price remained unchanged at €1.80. Between July and December, 2013, Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. issued the following series of bonds: U.S.$500 million Senior Notes due January 1, 2020, with an 8.875% coupon; U.S.$1,000 million Senior Notes due November 15, 2020 with a 6.750% coupon; and U.S.$650 million Senior Notes due July 1, 2017 with a 4.625% coupon. The proceeds of these offerings were used to (i) repay the U.S.$500 million Asset Sale Facility and the remaining outstanding amount of the €300 million Credit Facility which were two of the three Senior Secured Credit Facilities mentioned above; (ii) repay or redeem Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc.’s outstanding Series A and Series B convertible debentures and Lucent Technologies Capital Trust I convertible trust preferred securities; and (iii) prefund the maturity of €274 million principal amount of Alcatel Lucent’s 6.375% Senior Notes due in 2014. The offerings made in the United States were limited to qualified institutional buyers. Capital decrease. Effective as of June, 2013, Alcatel-Lucent’s capital was reduced to €116,471,561.65 by reducing the nominal value of its shares from €2.00 to €0.05 per share, pursuant to the capital decrease approved at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held on May 29, 2013. Revolving Credit Facility. On December 17, 2013, Alcatel-Lucent closed a €504 million three-year revolving credit facility with a syndicate of 12 international banks. As of the date hereof, this facility remains undrawn. Strategic partnership with Qualcomm. On September 30, 2013, we entered into a strategic partnership agreement with Qualcomm Incorporated to develop small cells for ultra-broadband wireless access. As a result, Qualcomm may purchase up to U.S.$20 million of our shares per year, in four tranches, over the period from 2013 to 2016. Each tranche is subject to a minimum lock-up period of six months. On September 30, 2013, Qualcomm Incorporated purchased approximately six million treasury shares (representing approximately 0.25% of our share capital) for U.S.$20 million. End of joint venture with Bharti Airtel. In February 2013, we decided to discontinue our joint venture with Bharti Airtel formed in 2009 for the management of Bharti Airtel’s pan-India broadband and telephone services and to help Bharti Airtel’s transition to a next generation network across India. As a result, the former joint venture’s operations were absorbed into a new business entity set up by Bharti Airtel. Termination of agreement with RPX. On March 7, 2013, we terminated our contract with RPX by mutual agreement, resulting in the extinguishment of all obligations of the parties, except for continuing obligations under certain non-disclosure provisions of the contract. Highlights of transactions during 2012 Disposals Disposal of Genesys. On February 1, 2012, we concluded the sale of our Genesys business to a company owned by the Permira funds (Permira is a European private equity firm) and Technology Crossover Ventures (a venture capital firm), for cash proceeds of U.S.$ 1.5 billion, pursuant to a binding offer that we had received on October 19, 2011. Other matters Multi-year financing commitments. On December 14, 2012, we announced that we had entered into three fully-committed €1.615 billion Senior Secured Credit Facilities underwritten by Credit Suisse AG and Goldman Sachs Bank USA. Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. was the borrower under these Senior Secured Credit Facilities, and Alcatel-Lucent and some of its material subsidiaries were guarantors. The Senior Secured Credit Facilities were denominated in U.S. dollars and in euros, and had maturities of three and a half to six years. Two of the facilities were repaid in 2013, and the remaining one was reimbursed in 2014. Launch of The Performance Program. On July 26, 2012 we launched The Performance Program, under which we expected to achieve €750 million in cost reductions, in addition to those previously announced in 2011, totaling €1.25 billion of cost savings by the end of 2013 taking into account our fixed and variable cost savings of close to €650 million in 2012. As a part of The Performance Program, a new organization became effective as of January 1, 2013, but was replaced by the organization, effective July 1, 2013, adopted in the context of The Shift Plan. Repurchases of convertible debentures. In February 2012, we repurchased and cancelled a portion of the outstanding Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. 2.875% Series B convertible debentures due June 2025 for U.S.$ 110 million in cash, excluding accrued 26 Table of Contents INFORMATION ABOUT THE GROUP History and development interest, corresponding to a nominal value of U.S.$116 million. This represented 13% of the total U.S.$881 million nominal value of such debentures outstanding at December 31, 2011. Repayment of notes issued in 2010. In February 2012, we repaid the notes that we had issued in July 2010 with maturity in February 2011 (then extended to February 2012) and in October 2010 with maturity in February 2012, for an aggregate €50 million in nominal value. In May 2012, we repaid the notes that we had issued in July 2010 with maturity in May 2011 (then extended to May 2012) for an aggregate €50 million in nominal value. Agreement with RPX concerning our patents. On February 9, 2012 we entered into an agreement with RPX Corporation (“RPX”), a company active in the patent risk solutions business, pursuant to which RPX would offer access to our worldwide patent portfolio through non-exclusive patent licenses to be entered into between members of the RPX client network and Alcatel-Lucent. Set forth below is an outline of certain significant events of Alcatel-Lucent beginning in 2006, the year of the merger of historical Alcatel and Lucent, until 2011: 2006 Business combination between historical Alcatel and Lucent Technologies Inc., completed on November 30, 2006 Acquisition of VoiceGenie, a leader in voice self-service solutions development by both enterprises and carriers Acquisition of a 27.5% interest in 2Wire, a pioneer in home broadband network product offerings Buy-out of Fujitsu’s interest in Evolium 3G our wireless infrastructure joint venture 2007 Acquisition of Informiam, pioneer in software that optimizes customer service operations through real-time business performance management (now a business unit within Genesys) Acquisition of NetDevices (enterprise networking technology designed to facilitate the management of branch office networks) Acquisition of Tropic Networks (regional and metro-area optical networking equipment for use in telephony, data, and cable applications) Sale of our 49.9 % interest in Draka Comteq to Draka Holding NV, our joint venture partner in this company Sale of our 12.4 % interest in Avanex to Pirelli, and supply agreements with both Pirelli and Avanex for related components Sale of our 67% interest in the capital of Alcatel Alenia Space and our 33% interest in the capital of Telespazio (a worldwide leader in satellite services) to Thales. Completion of the contribution to Thales of our railway signaling business and our integration and services activities for mission-critical systems not dedicated to operators or suppliers of telecommunications services 2008 Acquisition of Motive Networks, a U.S-based company developing and selling remote management software solutions for automating the deployment, configuration and support of advanced home networking devices called residential gateways 2009 Sale of our 20.8% stake in Thales to Dassault Aviation Sale of Dunkermotoren GmbH, our electrical fractional horsepower motors and drives subsidiary, to Triton Joint announcement with Hewlett-Packard (HP) of a 10-year co-sourcing agreement expected to help improve the efficiency of IS/IT infrastructure and create a joint go-to-market approach 2010 Sale of our 26.7% stake in 2Wire, a U.S.-based provider of advanced residential gateways for the broadband service provider market, to Pace plc Sale of our Vacuum pump solutions and instruments business to Pfeiffer Vacuum Technology AG 2011 - 27 Table of Contents 4 INFORMATION ABOUT THE GROUP Structure of the main consolidated companies as of December 31, 2014 4.3 Structure of the main consolidated companies as of December 31, 2014 The organization chart below reflects the main companies consolidated in the Group as of December 31, 2014 listed, in particular, in Note 33 of our consolidated financial statements. Percentage of interest in the capital equals 100% unless otherwise specified. 28 Table of Contents INFORMATION ABOUT THE GROUP Real estate and equipment 4.4 Real estate and equipment We occupy, as an owner or tenant, a large number of buildings, production sites, laboratories and service sites around the world. There are two distinct types of sites with the following features: · production and assembly sites dedicated to our various businesses; · sites that house research and innovation activities and support functions. A significant portion of sites are located in Europe, in the United States and in China. Most of our production and assembly is outsourced, while the remaining portion is carried out in our production sites. At December 31, 2014, our total production capacity was equal to approximately 237,000 sq. meters and the table below shows the breakdown by region for the Core Networking and Access segments, where our production capacity is concentrated. We believe that these properties are in good condition and meet the needs and requirements of the Group’s current and future activity and do not present an exposure to major environmental risks that could impact the Group’s earnings. The environmental issues that could affect how these properties are used are mentioned in Section 9.1 “Environment”. The sites mentioned in the tables below were selected among our portfolio of 430 sites to illustrate the diversity of the real estate we use, applying four main criteria: region, business segment, type of use (production/assembly, research/innovation or support function), and whether the property is owned or leased. Alcatel-Lucent, production capacity at December 31, 2014 (in thousands of sq. meters) EMEA Americas APAC Total Core Networking 84 0 5 89 Access 53 30 65 148 TOTAL 137 30 70 237 Production/Assembly sites Country Site Ownership China Shanghai Pudong Full ownership China Shanghai Songjiang Full ownership France Calais Full ownership France Eu Full ownership United Kingdom Greenwich Full ownership United States Meriden Full ownership The main features of our production sites are as follows: · site of Shanghai Pudong (China): 142,000 sq. meters, of which 23,000 sq. meters is used for the production for Fixed Access and Wireless Access activities, the remainder of the site is used mainly for offices and laboratories; · site of Shanghai Songjiang (China): 22,340 sq. meters used for the manufacturing of products for RFS (Radio Frequency Systems); · site of Calais (France): 79,000 sq. meters, of which 48,000 sq. meters is used for the production of submarine cables; · site of Eu (France): 31,000 sq. meters, of which 16,000 sq. meters is used for the production of boards; · site of Greenwich (United Kingdom): 19,500 sq. meters used for the production of submarine cables; · site of Meriden (United States): 21,000 sq. meters used for the manufacturing of products for RFS (Radio Frequency Systems). 29 Table of Contents 4 INFORMATION ABOUT THE GROUP Real estate and equipment Research and innovation and support sites Country Site Ownership Germany Stuttgart Lease Germany Nuremberg Lease Austria Vienna Full ownership Belgium Anvers Lease Brazil São Paulo Full ownership Canada Ottawa Full ownership China Shanghai Pudong Full ownership Spain Madrid Lease United States Plano Full ownership United States Naperville Full ownership United States Murray Hill Full ownership France Villarceaux Lease France Lannion Full ownership France Boulogne-BillancourtHeadquarters Lease France Orvault Lease India Bangalore Lease India Chennai Lease Italy Vimercate Lease Mexico Cuautitlan Izcalli Full ownership Netherlands Hoofddorp Lease Poland Bydgoszcz Full ownership Romania Timisoara Full ownership United Kingdom Swindon Lease Singapore Singapore Lease The occupation rate of these sites varies between 50 and 100 % (average rate is 79%); the space which is not occupied by Alcatel Lucent is leased to other companies or remains vacant. The average rate of 79% is based on the global portfolio of Alcatel Lucent. The facilities presented are the major sites and form a representative sample of our activities. 4.5 Material contracts National security agreement On November 17, 2006, the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (“CFIUS”) approved our business combination with Lucent. In the final phase of the approval process CFIUS recommended to the President of the United States that he not suspend or prohibit our business combination with Lucent, provided that we execute a National Security Agreement (“NSA”) and Special Security Agreement (“SSA”) with certain U.S. Government agencies within a specified time period. As part of the CFIUS approval process, we entered into a NSA with the Department of Justice, the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Defense and the Department of Commerce (collectively, the “USG Parties”) effective on November 30, 2006. As of November 20, 2012, the Department of Commerce ceased to be a party to the NSA. The NSA provides for, among other things, certain undertakings with respect to our U.S. businesses relating to the work done by Bell Labs and to the communications infrastructure in the United States. Under the NSA, in the event that we materially fail to comply with any of its terms, and the failure to comply threatens to impair the national security of the United States, the parties to the NSA have agreed that CFIUS, at the request of the USG Parties at the cabinet level and the Chairman of CFIUS, may reopen review of the business combination with Lucent and revise any recommendations or make new recommendations to the President of the United States, which could lead to new commitments for Alcatel Lucent. In addition, we agreed to establish a separate subsidiary, LGS Innovations LLC (“LGS”), to perform certain work for the U.S. government, and hold government contracts and certain sensitive assets associated with Bell Labs. The SSA, effective December 20, 2006, that 30 Table of Contents INFORMATION ABOUT THE GROUP Material contracts governs this subsidiary contains provisions with respect to the separation of certain employees, operations and facilities, as well as limitations on control and influence by the parent company and restrictions on the flow of certain information. Disposal of LGS. On March 31, 2014, Alcatel-Lucent sold LGS to a U.S. - based company. Alcatel-Lucent worked with the U.S. Government to receive the necessary approvals and amend the NSA to allow Alcatel-Lucent to continue to sell products and services to the U.S. Government through LGS. In addition, by virtue of the sale of LGS, Alcatel-Lucent no longer is a party to the referenced SSA or has directors on the LGS board. 2013 Senior secured credit facilities On January 30, 2013, Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc., as borrower, and Alcatel Lucent and some subsidiaries of the Group, as guarantors, entered into senior secured credit facilities that were syndicated in January 2013 (the “Senior Secured Credit Facilities”) and which comprised: · An asset sale facility with a total nominal value of U.S.$500 million; · A credit facility with a total nominal value of U.S.$1,750 million; and · A credit facility with a total nominal value of €300 million. Consistent with The Shift Plan (see Section 6.4 “Liquidity and capital resources”, sub-section “Capital resources”): · On August 7, 2013, we repaid the asset sale facility; · On December 6, 2013, we repaid the remaining outstanding amount under the €300 million credit facility; and · On August 19, 2014, we repaid the remaining outstanding amount under the U.S. $1,750 million credit facility. As a result, on August 2014, the Senior Secured Credit Facilities were fully repaid, allowing for the release of all associated pledges (see Section 6.4 “Liquidity and capital resources”, sub-section “Capital resources”). 31 Table of Contents 4 INFORMATION ABOUT THE GROUP 32 Table of Contents Description of the Group’s activities 5 5.1 Business Organization 34 5.2 Core Networking Segment 35 5.3 Access Segment 39 5.4 Other Segment 42 5.5 Marketing, sales and distribution of our products 42 5.6 Competition 42 5.7 Technology, research and development 43 5.8 Intellectual Property 45 5.9 Sources and availability of materials 45 5.10 Seasonality 46 5.11 Our activities in certain countries 46 33 Table of Contents 5 DESCRIPTION OF THE GROUP’S ACTIVITIES Business Organization 5.1 Business Organization Strategic Focus: There are several major trends centered at the intersection of the network and cloud that are changing the course of the information, communications and technology (ICT) industry, and framing our strategic future: · Dramatic uptick in cloud usage which drives larger data centers and the need for IP networking · More ubiquitous mobile broadband at work, home and on the move · Increasing intelligent connectivity for all kinds of objects which is creating the next generation internet - the internet of objects · Growing availability and value in data that is created by the digital world which allows for better customer experience, new business models and commerce, and a wealth of new intelligent services of all kinds. These trends began several years ago and collectively have created a period of significant growth in the ICT industry. For society, this will result in a shift in how the world will interact, with the network and the cloud serving as key components. Our operating strategy leverages these trends and depends on our ability to lead future market shifts to IP and cloud networking and ultra-broadband access. In June 2013, we launched The Shift Plan, which is a three-year industrial program that has already significantly repositioned our company from a telecommunications generalist to a specialist, with better-aligned management, a sound financial foundation, a stronger focus on innovation and significant growth prospects. The Shift Plan laid the foundation for the company to address major trends by focusing on IP and Cloud Networking and Ultra-Broadband Access. As such, we have refocused on a few strategic businesses with a tighter and more controlled portfolio while adapting our cost structure to strengthen our competitive positioning. Our key strengths to achieve success in our market include: · Our rapid expansion into products focused on creating an all-IP network in the cloud. Our cloud IP portfolio centers around: IP routing, Nuage Networks (our SDN platform), IP transport (including WDM) and selected IP Platforms such as Advanced Communications (IMS), Customer Experience Management and CloudBand, our virtualized software platform. · Our leadership position in the design and evolution of ultra broadband telecommunications networks. We will continue to invest in fiber and in LTE including small cells, to pursue this goal. · Maintaining a core strategy and a sustained investment in Research and Development. We believe that these strengths, coupled with the placement of IP at the center of our strategy will lead us to a successful future while taking into account the impact of the cloud on the future of the ICT industry. We anticipate that our new emphasis will enable us to target a wider range of customers beyond our traditional base of large telecommunications operators. Our sales and marketing strategy has been redesigned to take advantage of the new portfolio focus and to identify new and profitable market segments where our leading innovations in IP and cloud will allow us to better address a wider range of service providers. This strategy also allows us to benefit from all-IP network transformations with multiple system operators (MSOs) as well as address the telecommunications needs of web-scale customers and extra-large enterprises. We also continue to work with industry verticals such as governments, utilities, and transportation to address their networking and cloud requirements. Additionally in 2014, we announced a reinvigorated Alcatel-Lucent Partner Program to enhance our go-to-market coverage to serve customers of all kinds. To achieve even broader success, we need to grow with an open strategy of partnerships. We have already begun to reap the benefits of our partnership with Qualcomm to develop small cells for ultra-broadband wireless access. Likewise, we have progressed in aggressively virtualizing our portfolios through our global collaboration with Intel Corporation, which we established in February 2014. In May 2014, we established a partnership with Thales to provide highly advanced solutions to secure communications which combined Thales’s expertise in cyber-security and our know-how in secure networks and advanced security features in our networking products. Finally, in September 2014, we formed a strategic alliance with Accenture to help service providers and large enterprises implement integrated ultra-broadband solutions to address the challenges of rising costs and increased data consumption caused by high demand from digital customers and applications. The agreement forms the Accenture Alcatel-Lucent Business Group. Its initial offerings will include solutions where the companies team to design, build and run scalable, cost effective customer care operations for all-IP networks that will enhance mobile broadband accessibility and improve digital customers’ experiences. These partnerships will help us to scale and reshape the industry, and to create productive ecosystems. Organization. The operating segments of our business are as follows: · Core Networking which includes: – IP Routing, comprised of our IP routing portfolio and Nuage Networks – IP Transport, comprised of our terrestrial optics, submarine optics and wireless transmission portfolios – IP Platforms, which includes software as well as services · Access which includes: – Wireless Access, which includes all of our mobile radio access products and technologies (LTE, CDMA, W-CDMA, GSM/EDGE, small cells) 34 Table of Contents DESCRIPTION OF THE GROUP’S ACTIVITIES Business Organization – Fixed Networks, focusing on copper and fiber access technologies – Managed Services, which includes Network Operations and other focused solutions for the carrier and strategic industries market, – Licensing, positioned around the monetization of our patent portfolio. · Other, which included our government business through the first quarter of 2014. In addition, we have three organizations with specific focuses: · Operations: the operations organization includes delivery, operations and critical functions to help drive and monitor the implementation of The Shift Plan. · Sales: our sales organization focuses on driving customer relationships and serving as the face of the company to the customer. · Strategy and Innovation: responsible for shaping the agenda of the future of the company. This organization oversees Bell Labs and manages our intellectual property. We also have the following corporate functions: Finance and Legal, Human Resources, and Marketing. For more information regarding The Shift Plan, see Chapter 6.6 - “Strategy and Outlook” and for financial information by operating segment (also called business segment) and geographic market, see Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements and Chapter 6 - “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects”, included elsewhere in this document. 5.2 Core Networking Segment Overview Profound changes in the telecommunications market are impacting service providers’ networks. Mobile broadband data traffic - particularly video - continues to grow rapidly due to affordable smartphones, tablets and mobile devices, higher-speed wireless connectivity and more compelling services, content and applications. Mobile network operators are also deploying an increasing number of small cell sites to increase wireless capacity and coverage. In addition, increasing competition and next-generation broadband initiatives continue to place demands on fixed network operators. Together, these factors indicate that service providers operating either fixed or mobile networks must continue to invest in core networking infrastructure and Internet Protocol (IP) applications to keep up with data demands, as users expect high speed, high quality connections at any time and from anywhere. Although service providers continue to sell network connectivity services, competition is robust and prices remain under constant pressure. In addition, service providers have found it difficult to sell value-added services that generate additional revenue streams, such as enterprise communications services and consumer entertainment services. Alternative web-based applications and services from Internet companies are becoming more appealing to consumers and cost effective for enterprises. Web scale companies, such as Google and Amazon, are successfully delivering web-based applications and services to end users from large global data centers and related interconnected networks that are simpler to operate and more cost effective than traditional service provide infrastructure. To support the growth in these web-based applications and services and to make communication within and between data centers more efficient, new platforms are rapidly emerging. These new platforms integrate telecommunications-oriented IP networking and IT-oriented data center systems using a next generation approach to networking known as Software Defined Networking (SDN). SDN aims to make networking easier to deploy, more scalable, less prone to error and cheaper to operate by automating many of the processes used to configure, manage and maintain networks and deliver services today. In addition, Network Functions Virtualization (NFV), in which certain network functions are implemented in software running on commercial off-the-shelf hardware is emerging as an alternative deployment approach for select IP applications and services. By placing these virtualized functions in data centers, NFV aims to significantly increase the efficiency and flexibility of telecommunications networks for the delivery of cloud-based applications and services. In response to these changes in the telecommunications market, we have re-positioned ourselves as a specialist provider of Internet Protocol (IP) Networking, Cloud, and Ultra-Broadband Access, rather than as a telecommunications generalist. Our Core Networking segment includes the following divisions: IP Routing, IP Transport and IP Platforms. In 2014, the Core Networking segment continued to invest in a next-generation network product portfolio spanning each of this segment’s divisions as well as related professional services. Our next-generation Core Networking product portfolio continues to address the key challenge of how to simultaneously deliver innovative, revenue-generating services and provide scalable, low-cost bandwidth. In addition, we are investing in our Core Networking portfolio to help service providers to evolve to a more efficient, cloud-based network infrastructure that embraces SDN and NFV operational models and enables them to launch services faster, generate new revenue and increase business efficiency. In 2014, the Core Networking segment focused its R&D efforts on: · New and enhanced IP routing platforms for the core, edge, metro and access parts of the network enabling the transformation to an all-IP network across a range of mobile, residential, business and network infrastructure applications; 35 Table of Contents 5 DESCRIPTION OF THE GROUP’S ACTIVITIES Core Networking Segment · The introduction of a suite of virtualized IP routing applications including the Virtualized Service router (VSR), Virtualized Mobile Gateway (VMG) and Virtualized Mobility Manager (VMM) that are optimized for deployment in an NFV environment, and that build on more than a decade of investment in software and our real-world deployment experience in our Service Router Operating System (SR OS); · Multi-dimensional IP platform scale (covering capacity, services and control plane) using our in-house designed 400 gigabit/second (400 Gbps) FP3 network processor which allows for a fourfold improvement in performance and speed compared to current industry benchmarks, while reducing power consumption and space; · Optical switching and transport systems and technologies, including 100 gigabit/second (100 Gbps) coherent optics, and our in-house designed 400 Gbps Photonic Service Engine (PSE) and the first-to-market programmable 100 Gbps/200 Gbps DWDM solution; · SDN platforms and solutions that help service providers become more flexible, open and responsive to enterprise networking needs within the data center, between data centers and across the service provider Wide Area Network (WAN); · IP applications and solutions, collectively known as IP Platforms, focused on IP Communications, Cloud/NFV, Motive® Customer Experience Management, Policy & Charging, and Consulting services. In 2014 our Core Networking segment revenues were €5,966 million including intersegment revenues and €5,959 million excluding intersegment revenues, representing 45% of our total revenues. IP Routing Our IP Routing division is focused on delivering the IP routing infrastructure required to meet the challenges of sustaining massive network traffic growth while supporting the efficient delivery of cloud-enabled business, mobile and residential services. Our IP routing portfolio is targeted to service providers, mobile network operators, cable/multiple system operators (MSOs), transportation, utilities and large-scale enterprises worldwide. The main product families within the IP routing portfolio are: · Internet Protocol/Multiprotocol Label Switching (or IP/MPLS) core and edge routers. These products direct traffic within and between carriers’ national and international networks to enable delivery of a broad range of IP-based services (including internet access, Internet Protocol TV (IPTV), Voice over IP, mobile phone and data and managed business VPNs) on a single common network infrastructure with superior scalability, performance, reliability and application intelligence; · Carrier Ethernet access and aggregation switch/routers. These platforms and devices enable carriers to deliver advanced residential, business and mobile backhaul services. These products are mainly used in metropolitan area networks, which span across a city or large campus; · Service Aggregation Routers. These platforms are optimized to facilitate the transition from legacy networking technologies to next generation Carrier Ethernet/packet networking, and are widely deployed for mobile backhauling, business services and fixed network aggregation; · Service Aware Management. These products help manage all parts of the IP/MPLS network and help service providers with simplified processes to allow new services, proactive troubleshooting, and streamlined integration within their existing networks; · Content Delivery Networks (CDN). These products distribute and store web and video content. They deliver a wide variety of video and other content to businesses and consumers in cost-effective ways, as well as providing opportunities for new business relationships between service providers and content providers; and · Software Defined Networking (SDN). SDN enables service providers, web-scale operators and large enterprises to build robust, automated and highly scalable data center and networking infrastructures that deliver secure virtual compute, storage and networking resources for multiple tenants and user groups. The applicability of our IP Routing portfolio continues to expand to meet the needs of service providers. The following are some of our key areas of focus and investment in 2014: · Virtualized Services Platform (VSP) – Nuage Networks, our wholly-owned subsidiary, is delivering a Software-Defined Networking (SDN) solution to eliminate key data center network constraints that hinder cloud services adoption. The Nuage Networks VSP enables cloud providers, large enterprises and service providers to virtualize and automate networks in accordance with established policies in order to provide instant, secure connectivity to multiple users. In 2014, we saw strong customer momentum for the Nuage VSP platform across these customer types in all regions. We also enhanced the offering by introducing the Virtualized Networks Services (VNS) solution which will help enterprises and service providers extend the benefits of SDN to branch locations anywhere. · Virtualized Service Router (VSR) – We introduced a highly flexible suite of virtualized IP edge routing applications for deployment in NFV environments. The VSR enables rapid service innovation, extends service reach, opens new markets, and accelerates time to market for our customers. · Core router platform – We created advanced features for the 7950 Extensible Routing System (XRS), a next-generation core IP router designed to help service providers address the rapid growth of data traffic on core networks. We also significantly expanded our customer base for this product. · Enhanced IP edge routing features – We continue to develop advanced features for our IP edge routers such as policy and subscriber management, advanced video delivery, carrier Wi-Fi, security, and datacenter interconnect. 36 Table of Contents DESCRIPTION OF THE GROUP’S ACTIVITIES Core Networking Segment · Mobile backhaul – We expanded our broad IP mobile backhaul portfolio to address the challenges of deploying mobile backhaul for small cell networks while, at the same time, ensuring seamless backhaul management and operations across the broader 3G or 4G/LTE mobile network. · Mobile packet core – Our mobile packet core solution supports LTE Evolved Packet Core (EPC) and next-generation 2G/3G/3G+ packet core functionality to seamlessly deliver mobile traffic across all wireless technologies. In 2014, we introduced a virtualized evolved Packet Core (vEPC) product suite including virtualized mobile gateways and virtualized mobility management. Our service routers and carrier Ethernet service switches share a single network management system that provides consistency of features, quality of service, and operations, administration and maintenance capabilities - from the network core to the customer edge. These capabilities are critical as service providers transform their networks to support new types of IP-based services. Our service routers enable service providers to deliver personalized services to business, residential and mobile users, ensuring high capacity, reliability and high performance with enhanced quality of experience. IP Transport Our IP Transport division designs equipment for the transmission of high-speed data over fiber optic connections. The division focuses on terrestrial optical equipment for land (terrestrial) and undersea (submarine), for short distances in metropolitan and regional areas, and for traffic aggregation of fixed and mobile multi-service networks. Our leading transport portfolio also includes microwave wireless transmission equipment. Terrestrial optics Our terrestrial optical products offer a portfolio designed to seamlessly support service growth from the metro access to the network core. With our products, carriers can manage voice, data and video traffic patterns based on different applications or platforms. They can introduce a wide variety of managed data services that include multiple service quality capabilities, variable service rates and traffic congestion management. Most importantly, these products allow carriers to leverage their existing network infrastructure to offer new services and to support ultra-broadband services. As a leader in optical networking, we play a key role in the transformation of optical transport networks. Our wavelength-division multiplexing (WDM) products address a variety of markets, from the enterprise to the ultra-long-haul, and meet service provider requirements for cost-effective, scalable networks that can handle their increased data networking needs. Our WDM product portfolio is based on an intelligent photonics approach which eliminates the need for frequent on-site configuration. The 100 Gbps, 200 Gbps and 400 Gbps technology available in our WDM products along with 10 Gbps, 40 Gbps, and 100 Gbps high speed WDM uplinks allow operators to solve bandwidth bottlenecks, while offering the lowest cost per transported bit. This approach facilitates the design and installation of a more flexible WDM network that is easier to operate, manage and monitor. In 2014, the terrestrial optics division expanded the scalability, agility, versatility and performance features of our photonic networking product portfolio, which allows service providers to more efficiently transport increasing volumes of IP-based traffic. During 2014, the terrestrial optics division continued and expanded its R&D efforts on: · Integrated packet transport. This capability further enhances our terrestrial optics portfolio by leveraging our IP assets to provide comprehensive packet transport capabilities on the 1830 PSS product, our flagship WDM product. · 100 Gbps and 200 Gbps WDM. We continue to make investments to enable wider adoption of 100 Gbps WDM in the core network and metro network as well in increasingly more challenging and complex use cases. We were the first to deliver a programmable 100 Gbps/200 Gbps DWDM line card solution that allows service providers to meet today’s bandwidth demands and seamlessly grow capacity when needed without additional investment. · 400 Gbps WDM. We have seen an increasing interest in 400 Gbps WDM, enabling transport network speeds four times faster than current 100 Gbps WDM. A number of customers successfully completed trials and deployments on key routes. However, we believe the wide spread commercial adoption of 400 Gbps WDM will take several years. · 10 Gbps, 40 Gbps and 100 Gbps DWDM uplink cards. These cards enable cost-effective transferring of data and switching of lower bit rate services into higher bit rate wavelengths for efficient transport networking. · A flexible-grid-ready wavelength selective switch. Delivered through a software upgrade, this product enables wavelengths to be packed more densely, enabling more cost-effective transport. · IP traffic integration. This technology leverages our IP hardware and software assets to deliver switched native Ethernet transport directly on our photonic networking platforms in order to eliminate a need for more than one platform at a given site and enabling a reduction in the number of required ports on our photonic networking platforms and inter-connected service platforms. · Multi-layer control plane. This product organizes traffic so that it can be transported at the most economical layer in addition to allowing for the monitoring, reporting and enforcement of services. These optical products and technologies provide cost-effective, managed platforms that support different services and are suitable for many different network configurations. Submarine With over 575,000 km of submarine cables already installed and 300,000 km of submarine cables under maintenance agreements, we are the industry leader in installing and 37 Table of Contents 5 DESCRIPTION OF THE GROUP’S ACTIVITIES Core Networking Segment maintaining undersea telecommunications cable networks using optical transmission. According to industry analysts, we have a 40% market share. Our submarine cable networks connect continents, mainland to islands and between islands or several points along a coast. The market is mainly driven by capacity demand in response to surging broadband traffic volumes, and connectivity demand. Competition between service providers and need for routes redundancy are secondary drivers. Customers in this market are primarily service providers grouped into consortiums. We also see an increasing level of investment from webscale content providers (like Google or Microsoft). As a unique integrated player, we provide to our customers design, development, manufacturing, marine survey, marine lay, civil works, installation, commissioning and maintenance of cables. Our submarine activity includes: · Repeatered cables, which are turnkey systems for distances that exceed 450 km, using repeaters to amplify the signal over trans-oceanic distances, · Unrepeatered cables, for distances of less than 450 km, · Upgrades of terminal equipment at both ends of a cable to increase the capacity of the systems (typically to 100G gigabits per second), · Marine maintenance to repair damaged systems when needed, and after sales services. We have also started to broaden our customer base by entering the oil & gas market, notably to connect oil & gas offshore platforms to the coast, and to provide permanent reservoir monitoring solutions. This market is characterized by relatively few large contracts that often require more than a year to complete. At the beginning of an upward cycle recovery, recent telecom projects have been concentrated on links between North and South America (like Seabras-1), between Europe and Asia through India and Middle-East (like Sea-Me-We-5) and in South Asia and Australia routes. In the oil & gas market, we started the construction of a project to connect off-shore platforms along the northwest Australian coast. Wireless transmission We offer a comprehensive portfolio of microwave radio products meeting both the European Telecommunications Standards (ETSI) and the American standards-based (ANSI) requirements. These products include high, medium and low capacity microwave transmission systems for mobile backhaul applications, fixed broadband access applications, and private applications in markets like digital television broadcasting, defense and security, energy and utilities. In 2014, the Wireless Transmission unit continued to focus its R&D efforts on: · 9500 Microwave Packet Radio (MPR) product for long-haul microwave deployments that delivers an eight-fold increase in capacity through the use of one-third of the footprint of traditional long-haul microwave solutions. The 9500 Microwave Packet Radio (MPR) also allows governments, utilities, transportation and energy companies to quickly and efficiently transform their networks from legacy, or time-division multiplexing (TDM), transport to higher speed, highly efficient packet transport. Packet transport supports the shift to IP-based services and data traffic and growth; · IP-enabled microwave for mobile backhaul applications, which combines packet-based wireless transmission with IP networking to help service providers transition from second generation (2G) to third or fourth generation (3G or 4G) mobile networks. · The expansion of our 9500 MPR product family to provide fully integrated and end-to-end managed solutions for outdoor small cell backhaul. IP Platforms Our IP Platforms portfolio provides systems hardware, software platforms and applications that help communications service providers, extra large enterprises and webscale companies deliver advanced IP communications, optimize their networks and operations, improve the customer experience and monetize new services. These IP Platforms solutions include: · IP Communications. Communication products, solutions and services that help our customers – both service providers and extra large enterprises – transition to next generation voice, video and messaging on any device. Key components include IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) and Subscriber Data Management. Notably in 2014 the portfolio saw VoLTE launches by AT&T and Verizon, the first commercial deployment of virtualized IMS, and an increase of VoLTE contracts from five to eleven. · Network Function Virtualization (NFV). Fostering cloud based solutions optimized for communications service providers, our CloudBand portfolio combines the power of telecom networks with the flexibility and cost efficiencies of cloud and IT services. CloudBand is an industry leading NFV platform and its open design supports a wide variety of virtual network functions with some as sophisticated as the IP Multimedia Subsystem and Evolved Packet Core. We established the first open community advancing NFV, which we call the CloudBand Ecosystem, that currently involves almost 60 partners across the supply chain, with global service providers engaged in innovative co-creation projects. In 2014 we furthered our leadership by: more than tripling CloudBand’s service provider engagements compared to a year ago (from 7 to 26), including 4 commercial deployment contracts. · Motive® Customer Experience Management (CEM). A first-of-its-kind portfolio to automate care, service, network and IT operations with unparalleled data analysis. Today, there are over 600 Motive CEM deployments worldwide to fulfill, optimize and protect customer experiences. 38 Table of Contents DESCRIPTION OF THE GROUP’S ACTIVITIES Core Networking Segment – Motive Customer Care enables communications providers to offer, activate, support and manage a wide range of high-speed Internet, Voice-over-IP (VoIP), video, mobile and converged services. This software solution gives communications providers the tools they need to help their customers set up, manage, and meter their home and mobile devices and services. Our investment focus has been on deepening our analytics capabilities to support end-to-end assessments of customer experience, and on expanding our presence in mobile networks and applications. – Motive Dynamic Operations. In 2014, we introduced a new dynamic portfolio of products and solutions that addressed the challenges of today’s inflexible Operations Support Systems (OSS). The portfolio allows service providers to make their operational processes and software as agile as their virtualized network and data center, providing a unified view of the network and cloud infrastructure. The portfolio innovates in three unique ways: a new foundation that can dynamically identify and track all network resources; fully automated, programmable OSS that can fulfill orders and assure services; and a ‘self-healing’ environment driven by big data network analytics that evolves from automated recovery to predictive management. We have approximately 300 OSS customer relationships in over 70 countries. – Motive Big Network Analytics. This portfolio helps service providers to better extract intelligence from the network and combine it with key customer data to improve strategic decision-making, operational efficiency, and customer experience and revenue generation. In 2014 we introduced new analytics capabilities so that service providers can introduce and operate VoLTE. We also launched the Motive Security Guardian, a virtualized security solution that allows service providers to protect their network and their customers’ experience from malware. · Policy and Charging. Offers real-time rating/charging and policy control capabilities that help our customers innovate their data plans to capture opportunities created by the shift from traditional voice and SMS business models to mobile-data-centric models. In 2014, enhancing virtualization capabilities was a key focus for both the 5780 Dynamic Services Controller (DSC) and SurePay products, addressing key service provider requirements. 2014 saw the first deployment of our virtualized DSC for policy control with a large service provider. In addition, we added capabilities to the DSC to support the fast growing Diameter Control Point market, which enables service providers to better address rapidly increasing signaling traffic. The number of customers that selected our DSC for Diameter Control more than doubled in 2014. · Consulting Services. Works with customers to address their strategic and business issues by enabling them to transform and harness their network as a business platform, as well as accelerate innovation. Our experienced consulting team draws on our global business and solutions expertise. We guide our customers through a holistic and collaborative approach toward lasting positive change and aspire to be our customers’ trusted advisor. Our consulting services help customers to audit, optimize, consolidate and evolve network infrastructure and operations to drive down cost and ensure they can take advantage of emerging opportunities. We also help customers to launch new infrastructure services and enter the fast-growing wholesale markets. As part of The Shift Plan, we have stream-lined our payment business and disposed of certain portfolios within IP Platforms. In addition, we are phasing out our business support system (BSS) business and streamlining our OSS business. We are also carefully managing the Next Generation Intelligent Networking and Messaging businesses for profitability. 5.3 Access Segment Overview Smartphones, tablets, and other mobile, intelligent devices are increasingly pervasive, connecting people, businesses and societies in new and exciting ways. Service providers are challenged with connecting users and their devices to networks, services and applications. Demand for faster broadband services reflect a market environment in which broadband traffic is growing exponentially. More and more data, applications and services are moving to the cloud, stored in massive data centers. The access network is now the essential bridge between users and the cloud, making content, services and applications accessible on any device and at any time and from any location. The role of the access network is changing to deliver more capacity at the lowest cost without compromising performance and functionality. In response to these changes in the role of the access network, we have re-positioned our wireless and fixed access portfolios to focus on Ultra-Broadband Access, providing our customers with high-speed, high capacity, high performance access solutions. These ultra-broadband solutions leverage the latest innovations in fixed and wireless access technologies and build on our leadership position in the fixed and wireless access markets. In 2014, the Access segment focused its R&D efforts on: · Ultra-fast fixed broadband solutions using copper and fiber technologies such as VDSL2, vectoring, G.fast and next-generation passive optical networking (NG-PON2 ) · Ultra-fast mobile broadband solutions using wireless technologies such as LTE and small cells; and · Highly distributed architectures for fixed access (also known as fiber-to-the-x, or FTTx) and wireless access (small cells, LTE overlay) that often require scalable approaches to aggregation and backhaul. 39 Table of Contents 5 DESCRIPTION OF THE GROUP’S ACTIVITIES Access Segment In addition to the Wireless Access and Fixed Access divisions, the Access Segment also includes our Licensing and Managed Services divisions. In 2014 our Access segment revenues were €7,157 million including intersegment revenues and €7,151 million excluding intersegment revenues, representing 54% of our total revenues. Wireless The wireless industry continues to be dynamic and fast moving and competition among operators remains intense. As demand for mobile data grows, so have global LTE deployments. Operators appreciate that in order to satisfy increasing end user demand as well as gain competitive advantage, LTE is a necessity. We have seen a shift in the approach operators are taking to build their networks. Historically, in the migration from 2G to 3G, operators predominantly chose to build converged networks with a focus on saving costs through the operation of a single, common network. However, in the case of LTE, many operators are choosing an overlay approach, where LTE is deployed as a separate network over existing 2G/3G networks. LTE overlay makes sense because it is the fastest way to deploy LTE with the utmost coverage, capacity and performance. We are also observing strong momentum in small cells with many operators deploying both 3G and 4G small cells as a way to rapidly and cost effectively add coverage and capacity exactly where it is needed. 2014 has seen small cells being deployed globally across the home, in-building and outdoor market segments. These deployments have increased the demand for LTE and multi-standard products. We believe that advances in the industry to address many of the challenges associated with small cell deployments will lead to wide scale small cell deployments. Our wireless products and services portfolio enables mobile network operators to cost effectively satisfy the demand for mobile data capacity. In 2014, our wireless portfolio and investments focused on the growth areas of LTE and small cells and we continue our transition away from 2G/3G legacy technologies. These investment focus areas mirror the wireless priorities of major mobile network operators as they respond to the increasing demand for mobile data services and increase the capacity of their wireless networks. LTE (Long-Term Evolution) Fuelled by the surge of mobile broadband data traffic, the market for 4G LTE is reaching maturity faster than any previous wireless technology. In 2014, the LTE total addressable market surpassed the combined total addressable market for 2G/3G wireless technologies (Dell Oro, January 2015). Further, according to the GSA (GSM Suppliers Association), at the end of 2014, there were 360 commercial LTE networks deployed across 124 countries supporting more than 373 million LTE subscribers. LTE creates an environment in which end users are able to use wireless networks to access high-bandwidth content at optimal cost, enabling the next generation of affordable services. Our focus is on LTE Overlay solutions, the opportunity for which is growing significantly as an increasing number of operators recognize the need to move to LTE decisively. We believe that LTE Overlay is faster, safer and its dedicated network resources perform better. Our products and services offer the right expertise, tools, methodologies and experience, which we believe allow our customers to implement these services more quickly through end-to-end pre-testing, design tools, remote integration and proactive trouble shooting. Small cells Small cells cost effectively extend wireless network coverage and capacity, and improve the quality of experience (QoE) for subscribers wherever there are data traffic hotspots and coverage holes. Our Small Cells portfolio is a comprehensive, end to end solution targeted at operators who want to extend 3G/4G network coverage and increase capacity in home, in-building or in the public domain. Our end to end solution encompasses a full suite of small cell access points, a 3G/4G multi-standard gateway, an operations, administration and management system and a set of wireless services that address operator challenges including access to sites, power, backhaul, and the need for rapid network design, access point installation and access point commissioning. Our small cells solutions allow operators to expand their network rapidly and cost effectively to deliver an enhanced end user quality of experience. In the second half of 2014, we announced the development of our first multi-standard (3G/4G/Wi-Fi) enterprise small cell which is on track for commercial release in early 2015. The new 9962 Multi-Standard Enterprise Cell allows operators to meet the needs of their business customers and deliver in-building wireless services to support continued growth in data traffic and VoLTE service. This is the first small cell of its type to support both 3G and 4G LTE connectivity through a single chipset with key features like carrier aggregation. This product was developed as part of our partnership with Qualcomm, announced in July 2013. We also expanded this relationship to include LTE and multi-standard small cells for the residential segment. Further in 2014, we announced that we teamed with JCDecaux, the number one outdoor advertising company worldwide, to deliver connected street furniture. Integrating our small cells with JCDecaux’s street furniture assets is a powerful example of our Metro Cell Express solution in practice. The teams are working together to optimize the aesthetic integration of small cells in street furniture in order to provide cities and telecom operators with a global solution that is in tune with the urban environment. Finally, we also announced a new small cells center of excellence at our new Cité de l’innovation in France, where we will work with our partners to simplify adoption of small cells into cities, buildings, and enterprise environments. The small cells center of excellence will support R&D personnel dedicated to small cells, including both multi-standard and LTE metro products, with resources focused on hardware, software, design and test. 40 Table of Contents DESCRIPTION OF THE GROUP’S ACTIVITIES Access Segment We have been ranked number one in the small cell industry by leading analysts such as ABI Research, Current Analysis and Infonetics and we hold the largest number of small cell contracts in the industry with 76 customers in more than 50 countries. Legacy wireless Investment in the W-CDMA, GSM and CDMA portfolios have been reduced as we re-focus R&D on the growth segments within Wireless (LTE and Small Cells). In keeping with this strategy, in the second half of 2014, we signed a master service agreement with HCL of India for the outsourcing of our macro 2G and 3G research and development activities, and related technical support services and associated design, development and testing operations. We will retain product and portfolio ownership, as well as the customer relationship management and will continue to market and sell 2G/3G solutions. RFS (Radio Frequency Systems) RFS designs and sells cable, antenna, tower systems and their related electronic components, providing an end-to-end suite of radio frequency products. RFS serves original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), distributors, system integrators, network operators and installers in the broadcast, wireless communications, microwave and defense sectors. Specific applications for RFS products include cellular sites, in-tunnel and in-building radio coverage, microwave links, TV and radio. Fixed access Our Fixed Access division designs and develops fixed access products that allow service providers to offer Ultra-Broadband connectivity over digital subscriber lines (DSL) and fiber connections. Also known as fiber-to-the-x (FTTx) equipment, these products provide internet access and other services to residential and business customers around the world. These products also help complete the transformation of legacy networks to IP by providing IP connectivity for the last mile. We are the worldwide leader in the fixed broadband access market supporting the largest mass deployments of voice, video and data services. According to industry analysts, we are the largest global supplier of DSL technology, with 42% of global DSL market share based on ports shipped, and the third largest global supplier of Gigabit Passive Optical Networking (or GPON) technology, with 22% of global market share. Our global installed base now includes more than 299 million DSL lines and more than 18 million GPON ports shipped. We are present in the largest and most advanced fiber-to-the-home deployments worldwide, including more than 170 GPON-based and more than 20 point-to-point fiber projects. We are the leader in VDSL2 deployments with more than 90 customer contracts, and we already have 28 customer contracts and over 65 trials for our VDSL2 Vectoring technology, which delivers 100Mbps speeds over existing copper infrastructure. Additionally, we concluded 30 trials for our newest DSL innovation G.fast. We have become one of the leading suppliers to the Chinese market, which is the fastest growing broadband market in the world. We have the highest capacity fiber access platform on the market and the most advanced vectoring solution. Our strong position in both fiber and DSL technologies is key to providing service providers with the solutions they need to increase their revenue potential and drive down their operational costs while improving the quality and experience for end-user customers. Operators around the world have been looking at mixed copper/fiber deployment models to improve their business case. We have built solutions that let the operators mix and match the strengths of diverse technologies and deployment models (from FTTN with vectoring to FTTH and everything in between) to achieve the fastest possible return-on-investment and time-to-market and to connect more users, faster. In 2014, the Fixed Access division focused its R&D efforts on: · Fixed access products that support both copper and fiber access. The breadth of products and technologies supported by our fixed access portfolio allows service providers to deploy a mix of both copper and fiber technologies efficiently and in the most cost-effective way to suit whatever deployment model they need. · High end micro-nodes portfolio with VDSL2 vectoring technology. The new micro-nodes give operators the opportunity to bring fiber deeper into the network and make use of VDSL2 vectoring to boost the speed without having to invest in bringing fiber completely into the home. The portfolio is customizable to serve all network needs. · Continued investment in VDSL2 vectoring that increases data speeds to 100 Mbps or more and G.Fast which can increase the speed to 1Gbps over existing copper infrastructure to homes and businesses. We were the first vendor to demonstrate G.Fast live in the field with Telekom Austria and to announce a product. · Continued investments in FTTH, focusing on technologies that accelerate the return on investment in fiber networks for service providers and being first on the market with next generation passive optical networking solutions (NG-PON2). · DPoE (Docsis Provisioning of EPON) and 10G EPON on the high capacity 7360 ISAM FX platform. DPoE is a very important feature for cable Multiple System Operators (MSOs) as it makes the fiber network transparent in the management system, while bringing higher speeds, especially in the uplink. We won three major contracts for this solution in North America. Licensing The Licensing division actively pursues a strategy of licensing patents to generate revenues. We also license selected technologies to third parties to generate revenues. Additional revenues are generated through the sale of selected patents when that path best serves our needs. 41 Table of Contents 5 DESCRIPTION OF THE GROUP’S ACTIVITIES Access Segment Managed services Our Managed Services division delivers innovative solutions for both the carrier and strategic industries markets. Our solutions help customers by delivering accelerated time to market, continuous improvement in service quality and a sustainable lower total cost of operations. Our portfolio offers two focused and innovative solutions, in addition to Network Operations Services: · The BOMT (Build-Operate-Manage-Transfer) Solution. We help customers deploy and operate our new products, technologies and solutions faster. As part of the BOMT program, we operate and manage a customer’s network and at the end of our contract we transfer the operations to the customer, with options to license our intellectual property. · The Operations Transformation Solution. We control a customer’s network operations and transform their multivendor network operation functions. We manage any legacy infrastructure a customer may have, and adapt the pace of the transformation to the customer’s needs. Finally, at the end of the contract, we transfer the operations back to the customer, with options to license our intellectual property. · Network Operations Services. We provide a cost-efficient approach to network monitoring and surveillance by delivering basic network operations fault management service and problem resolution from our global network operations centers. This includes Services management and customer experience management offerings. 5.4 Other Segment Government LGS Innovations provides secure networking, satellite communications, VoIP, optical routers and other solutions for the US national security, defense, and advanced research communities, and has a heritage as a trusted partner of the US Federal Government for more than 60 years. On March 31, 2014, we completed the disposal of LGS Innovations LLC to a U.S.-based company owned by a Madison Dearborn Partners-led investor group that includes CoVant. For further details, see Chapter 4 of this document. In 2014 our Other segment revenues were €41 million, representing less than 1% of our total revenues. 5.5 Marketing, sales and distribution of our products We sell substantially all of our products and services to the world’s largest telecommunications service providers through our direct sales force. In some countries, such as China, our direct sales force may operate in joint ventures with local partners and through indirect channels. For sales to smaller and regional service providers, we use our direct sales force and value-added resellers. Our sales organization has primary responsibility for all customer-focused activities, and shares that responsibility with the sales teams at certain integrated units such as submarine systems and radio frequency systems. We also utilize partnerships with companies such as HP and Accenture to sell various products to service providers as well as other non-telecommunications segments. In 2014, we created the Chief Marketing Office function which unifies our marketing and communications expertise into one global organization. In addition, we are adding go-to-market capabilities to broaden our reach in new markets around the world. More information about our organization can be found in Chapter 5.1 “Business Organization”. 5.6 Competition We have one of the broadest portfolios of product and services offerings in the telecommunications equipment and related services market, both for the carrier and non-carrier markets. Our addressable market segment is very broad and our competitors include large companies, such as Cisco Systems, Ericsson, Fujitsu, Huawei, Nokia, Samsung and ZTE as well as more specialized competitors such as Adtran, Calix, Ciena and Juniper. Some of our competitors, such as Ericsson and Huawei, compete across many of our product lines while others - including a number of smaller companies - compete in one segment or another. In recent years, consolidation has reduced the number of networking equipment vendors, and the list of our competitors may continue to change as the intensely competitive environment drives more consolidation. We believe that technological advancement, product and service quality, reliable on-time delivery, product cost, flexible manufacturing capacities, local field presence and long-standing customer relationships are the main factors that distinguish 42 Table of Contents DESCRIPTION OF THE GROUP’S ACTIVITIES Competition competitors within each of our segments in their respective markets. Another factor that may serve to differentiate competitors, particularly in emerging markets, is the ability and willingness to offer some form of financing. We expect that the level of competition in the global telecommunications networking industry will remain intense for several reasons. First, although consolidation among vendors results in a smaller set of competitors, it also triggers competitive attacks to increase established positions and market share, pressuring margins. Consolidation or partnerships also allow some vendors to enter new markets with acquired technology and capabilities, effectively backed by their size, relationships and resources. In addition, carrier consolidation is continuing in both developed and emerging markets, resulting in fewer customers overall. Elsewhere, some service providers are considering network asset sharing or joint ventures to reduce overall costs. In areas where capital expenditures remain under pressure, the competitive impact of a smaller set of customers may be compounded. Most vendors are also targeting the same set of the world’s largest service providers because they account for the bulk of carrier spending for new equipment. Competition is also accelerating around IP network technologies as carriers continue to shift capital to areas that support the migration to next-generation networks. Furthermore, competitors providing low-priced products and services from Asia have gained significant market share worldwide. They have gained share both in developed markets and in emerging markets, which account for a growing share of the overall market and which are particularly well-suited for those vendors’ low-cost, basic communications offerings. As a result, we continue to operate in an environment of intensely competitive pricing. 5.7 Technology, research and development Our research and development efforts have two primary focuses: research conducted by Bell Labs to lay the foundation for new and disruptive market opportunities; and product-focused development that transitions concepts to fully viable commercial offerings and enhances existing product lines with unique differentiators that enable us to distinguish our offerings from those of our competitors. In 2014, our R&D community expanded on our historic record of innovation with achievements that keep us at the technological forefront of key market segments, from IP routing, transport and platforms to the cloud to ultra-broadband access technologies. Some highlights for 2014 are identified below, both in terms of products that are available to customers today, and research activities that have a longer horizon. Product innovations · We began 2014 by delivering a bold network functions virtualization (NFV) roadmap, including the virtualized Evolved Packet Core (vEPC), virtualized IP Multimedia Subsystem (vIMS) and virtualized Radio Access Network (vRAN) portfolio to help mobile network operators become more efficient, responsive and innovative. Our NFV solutions combine our networking technical acumen with extensive cloud capabilities, leveraging the CloudBand™ 2.0 NFV platform and Nuage Networks SDN innovations. · We actively participate in the ETSI (European Telecommunications Standards Institute) NFV advisory board, and collaborate with industry experts such as Intel and members of the our CloudBand Ecosystem Program. This program includes almost 60 companies developing NFV solutions for service providers. We demonstrated our NFV progress at Mobile World Congress independently and together with China Mobile. In addition we announced an NFV co-innovation agreement with Telefónica. · In November 2014, Nuage Networks launched the Virtualized Network Service (VNS). This product will help enterprises and service providers extend the benefits of Software Defined Networking policy driven network automation to branch locations to enable a more highly responsive operational environment. · Also in November 2014, we introduced the industry’s most complete portfolio of virtualized edge routing functions. The Virtualized Service Router (VSR) offers up to 8 times the performance of our competitors’ solutions. We soon followed with an extension of our hardware-based edge routing portfolio. The 7750 SR-a offers high-density, high-performance aggregation of mobile backhaul, business and residential services in a compact, modular design. With our routing portfolio we are offering service providers both the specialized hardware and router software necessary to build a flexible network with the right performance and economics for the cloud era. · To help providers stay ahead of ever-changing transport demands we delivered to market the first single-carrier 200G DWDM solution in April 2014. This allows operators to transmit data over distances as great as 4,000 km in 100G mode and as far as 1,000 km in 200G mode. It supports a smooth, scalable, agile, flexible and cost-efficient network evolution path to 400G and beyond in the future. · Our Cloud DVR solution reached 28 petabytes of installed capacity and was used by Telefónica to bring network DVR services to nearly one million customers in Spain. The solution won a TV Connect Industry award and we collected our 2013 Technology and Engineering Emmy award in January. In September 2014, we launched a product that enables operators in the US to deploy Cloud DVR services economically while complying with content rights legislation. 43 Table of Contents 5 DESCRIPTION OF THE GROUP’S ACTIVITIES Technology, research and development · At Broadband World Forum we announced our first G.fast and the industry-first TWDM-PON (Time and Wavelength Division Multiplexed Passive Optical Networks) fixed ultra-broadband solutions. Our G.fast solution will allow operators to bring fiber even closer to subscribers’ homes and use the last few meters of copper to deliver fiber-like speeds of up to 1 Gigabit per second. A1, a subsidiary of Telekom Austria announced the first ultra-broadband customer connection using our G.fast solution in October 2014. Our TWDM-PON fiber solution with 4 wavelengths per fiber allows providers to support different services on each wavelength, expand into new markets or collaborate with other operators to roll out fiber networks more quickly and cost-effectively. By extending our fixed ultra-broadband portfolio we are giving operators even more choice in connecting every last customer in the most flexible and efficient way. Research activities Software defined networks (network function virtualization) Bell Labs has focused on SDN efficiency, control, and implementation so that Software Defined Networking can be applied to all segments of the network effectively. Researchers are also developing prototypes for the complementary aspect, placing network functions into the cloud with NFV, and demonstrating superior performance with virtualized services. In one example, Bell Labs and the corporate Chief Technology Office (CTO) team have publicly launched a tool (GWATT.NET) for assessing energy consumption across networks with different configurations, including SDN and NFV options. Data analytics – customer care Bell Labs is defining algorithms and data visualization techniques to improve the customer care of service providers. Researchers have developed tools to identify successful customer care interactions and to highlight opportunities for improving such engagements. The tools help service providers analyze records so that they can greatly reduce the cost of customer care. This research is also paving the way towards real-time optimization of customer care workflows. Network applications As more applications and services move to the cloud, it becomes increasingly necessary to distribute different parts of the applications across the worldwide network to gain efficiency. New methods of controlling and distributing cloud applications and services are achieving high gains in efficiency, so that only 1/10 the computing resources will be required to perform the same tasks. Network algorithms Bell Labs is developing software to support continuous queries on streaming data. Such queries are a key part of data mining for very large amounts of continuously generated data (for example, call logs). The software automatically transforms a conventional database query into a set of sub-queries, which it then executes on multiple computers. The software also ensures minimal bandwidth is needed for the flow of data through the program while executing streaming analytics queries with maximal parallelism. This software is an important step towards making data analytics practical and economical for streaming data. Research is developing more efficient network algorithms to intelligently process and respond to the massive real-time data flowing through mobile networks, enabling new classes of customer and network analytics. Multimedia services As video is the dominant traffic over networks, Bell Labs researchers are investigating how to assure an effective delivery of current and emerging multimedia services in the following ways: · We created several new technologies in the wireless domain to optimize the delivery of video over wireless networks. We demonstrated Adaptive Guaranteed Bit Rate (Adaptive-GBR) which makes the Radio Access Network (RAN) “video aware” including in the following ways: by effectively managing and mitigating congestion; by efficiently using scarce wireless resources to ensure “fairness” in wireless resource allocation across users; and by increasing the quality of experience of services to the end user. · Bell Labs developed a next generation of HTTP adaptive streaming, namely HTTP layered streaming, which combines scalable video coding and HTTP adaptive streaming concepts to provide a lower end-to-end latency, and better resilience to varying network loads by combining the benefits of best effort streaming with managed services. Further advances have been made in finding effective video delivery over existing http adaptive streaming systems, to reduce the impact of network variations on the video stream, and improve the perceived quality of experience. Optics · New spatial division multiplexing research continues to extend the capacity of optical fiber beyond the perceived limits by exploiting multiple light paths through the fiber. Research teams are also addressing SDM system reliability and security. Fixed ultra-broadband · Work on XG-FAST, an extension of G.fast technology, continues. Bell Labs researchers have set new records, achieving up to 10GBps over existing DSL links. These improvements are being standardized and offer an affordable way forward for broadband operators to improve their services for years to come. Small cells and 5G wireless · Bell Labs research is addressing the need for improved capacity, coverage, and reach across the diverse wireless 44 Table of Contents DESCRIPTION OF THE GROUP’S ACTIVITIES Technology, research and development landscape, with efforts in technologies such as dense MIMO, the new millimeter wave spectrum, and 5G, along with finding ways to evolve today’s networks economically. European public policy initiatives · Bell Labs is participating in the European Union’s Horizon 2020 (H2020) industry-wide consortium. H2020 aligns enterprises and academia to focus on common technology roadmaps to spur innovation and network commerce, along with driving EU network improvements. The EU H2020 is addressing many areas, including ICT (Information and Computing Technologies) and Sustainability. Standards Throughout 2014, representatives of our R&D community played leading roles in telecommunication standards bodies, helping foster and steer the development and advancement of key technologies. Researchers, engineers and developers from Bell Labs and our development teams participated in many dozens of standards organizations and an even greater number of working groups such as the 3GPP, 3GPP2, ATIS, Broadband Forum, CCSA, ETSI, IEEE, IETF, OMA, and TIA. Partnerships and collaborations As part of The Shift Plan, we are committed to refocus and expand innovation by redefining and leveraging our research capacities. We aim to implement a new engagement model for Bell Labs Research that is closer to its portfolio life cycle. We also plan to focus on in-house start-ups, as well as on industry partnerships, collaborations and co-developments with leading- edge customers. To exemplify this new model, we announced the following: · With Qualcomm: We announced an expansion to our strategic R&D program to include the development of LTE and multi-standard residential small cells. · With Intel: we announced a collaboration focusing on three areas of cloud R&D to optimize Intel architecture for our platforms in order to improve performance and scale: (i) virtual Radio Access Networks (RAN), developing and optimizing our LTE and LTE-Advanced wireless products, (ii) Cloud Platform, developing and optimizing our CloudBand NFV platform and (iii) high-performance packet processing for advanced IP/MPLS platforms and functions. · With HP: We announced an expansion of our global alliance to help the world’s largest organizations and service providers build network-enabled, distributed cloud solutions to create new business opportunities, enable efficiencies and improve customer service. HP will incorporate selected Alcatel-Lucent IP routing and optical products into its existing routing and storage portfolios, allowing organizations to more efficiently leverage the convergence of IT and telecommunications to realize reduced complexity and greater agility. · With Accenture: we announced a strategic global alliance that would help service providers and large enterprises implement integrated ultra-broadband solutions. · With Eblink: We signed a commercial and technological partnership agreement which would enable us to benefit from Eblink’s advanced wireless fronthaul solutions. · With JCDecaux: We announced that we would join forces in the development of connected street furniture, to house small cells in urban locations and improve connectivity. 5.8 Intellectual Property In 2014, we obtained more than 3,000 patents worldwide, resulting in a portfolio of more than 33,000 active patents and over 15,000 patent applications totaling over 48,000 issued and pending patents worldwide across a vast array of technologies. We also continued to actively pursue a strategy of licensing selected technologies to expand the reach of our technologies and to generate licensing revenues. We rely on patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws both to protect our proprietary technology and to protect us against claims from others. We believe that we have intellectual property rights or rights under licensing arrangements covering all of our material technologies. We consider patent protection to be critically important to our businesses due to the emphasis on Research and Development and intense competition in our markets. 5.9 Sources and availability of materials We make significant purchases of electronic components and other material from many sources. While we have experienced some temporary shortages in components and other commodities used across the industry, we have generally been able to obtain sufficient materials and components from various sources around the world to meet our needs. We continue to develop and maintain alternative sources of supply where technologically feasible for essential materials and components. 45 Table of Contents 5 DESCRIPTION OF THE GROUP’S ACTIVITIES Seasonality 5.10 Seasonality The typical quarterly pattern in our revenues - a weak first quarter, a strong fourth quarter and second and third quarter results that fall between those two extremes - generally reflects the traditional seasonal pattern of service providers’ capital expenditures. In 2014, our revenues were in-line with the typical seasonal pattern. This seasonality could differ depending on varying business trends in any given quarter. 5.11 Our activities in certain countries We operate in a large number of countries, some of which have been accused of human rights violations, are subject to economic sanctions and export controls by the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control or have been identified by the U.S. State Department as state sponsors of terrorism. Our net revenues in 2014 attributable to Cuba, Iran, Sudan, and Syria represent much less than one percent of our total net revenues. Though we are not aware of any significant shareholder intending to divest the shares it owns in Alcatel Lucent on the basis of our activities in these countries, some U.S.-based pension funds and endowments have in the past announced their intention to divest the securities of companies doing business in these countries and some state and local governments have adopted, or are considering adopting, legislation that would require their state and local pension funds to divest their ownership of securities of companies doing business in these countries. Disclosure of activities under Section 13(r) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Under Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, which added Section 13(r) to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, we are required to disclose whether Alcatel Lucent or any of its affiliates knowingly engaged in certain activities, transactions or dealings relating to Iran or certain designated individuals or entities. Disclosure is required even when the activities were conducted outside the United States by non-U.S. entities and even when such activities were conducted in compliance with applicable law. The following information is disclosed pursuant to Section 13(r). None of these activities involved U.S. affiliates of Alcatel-Lucent. 1. Alcatel-Lucent has provided technical support services to or for the benefit of Telecom Infrastructure Company of I.R. Iran (“TIC”). These services were provided in support of telecommunications network equipment that was sold previously to customers in Iran for end-use by TIC. TIC is a government-owned telecommunications infrastructure provider in Iran that serves as Iran’s intercity, interprovincial and international telecom network operator. During 2014, our gross revenues received from these activities involving TIC were approximately €151,000 and net profits were approximately €57,000. The contract for these technical support services expired on September 30, 2014 and we intend to renew it in 2015. 2. In 2013, Alcatel-Lucent Deutschland AG, an Alcatel-Lucent subsidiary, reached a settlement agreement with Iranian Telecommunication Manufacturing Company Public Stock Corporation (“ITMC”) on claims raised by ITMC related to contracts that were completed prior to 2007 for the delivery of telecommunications equipment and services. In the course of these contracts, performance bonds had been opened between 2001 and 2006 at Bank Tejarat, Bank Saderat and Bank Mellat and had been retained by ITMC as security against their claims. The settlement agreement stipulates that Alcatel-Lucent Deutschland AG shall pay €1,600,000 to ITMC as settlement for the claims and that, in return, performance bonds held by ITMC shall be released. In December 2014, the German Federal Bank approved payment of the settlement amount by Alcatel-Lucent Deutschland AG to a third party named as beneficiary by ITMC. No payments were made under the settlement agreement in 2014. 3. Alcatel-Lucent has two frame agreements for the supply of telecommunications network equipment and related services to two private companies in Iran, PATSA and Elmatco. The PATSA agreement is for end-use by the Shiraz Urban Rail Organization (“SURO”) in support of operations of the Shiraz city metro rail system. We understand that SURO is owned by the government of the city of Shiraz. The Elmatco agreement is for end-use by a group of state-owned regional electricity companies, including Esfahan Regional Electric Company, Iran Power Distribution Company and Gharb Regional Electric Company. In 2014, Alcatel Lucent did not recognize any revenues or net profits attributable to these frame agreements. We intend to fulfill our remaining obligations under these agreements, subject to compliance with applicable laws. 4. Two non-U.S. subsidiaries of Alcatel-Lucent have branches in Iran that maintain bank accounts at Bank Tejarat for purposes of carrying out financial transactions in connection with their general business activities. 5. Alcatel Lucent is considering additional opportunities involving Iran, consistent with applicable laws. 46 Table of Contents Operating and financial review and prospects 6 6.1 Overview of 2014 52 6.2 Consolidated and segment results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 53 6.3 Consolidated and segment results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to the year ended December 31, 2012 58 6.4 Liquidity and capital resources 63 6.5 Contractual obligations and off-balance sheet contingent commitments 68 6.6 Strategy and Outlook 72 6.7 Qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risks 74 6.8 Legal Matters 76 6.9 Research and development — expenditures 78 47 Table of Contents 6 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Forward looking information This Form 20-F, including the discussion of our Operating and Financial Review and Prospects, contains forward-looking statements based on beliefs of our management. We use the words “anticipate”, “believe”, “expect”, “aim”, “may”, “target”, “seek”, “estimate”, “predict”, “potential”, “intend”, “should”, “plan”, “project”, “strive” or the negative of these terms or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Many factors could cause the actual results to be materially different, including, among others, changes in general economic and business conditions. Such factors could negatively impact our ability to achieve the goals of The Shift Plan by the end of 2015, including the refocusing of the Group’s innovation efforts, the targeted revenues, operating margin and operating cash flows, the overall targeted cost savings and asset sales, and the level of debt re-profiling and debt reduction. A detailed description of such risks and uncertainties is set forth in Chapter 3 “Risk Factors” in this Form 20-F. The forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the forecasts and targets set forth in this Form 20-F, such as the discussion below in this Chapter 6 under the heading “Strategy and Outlook” of our targets, for: (i) revenues from the Core Networking segment at or above €7 billion with a segment operating margin at or above 12.5% and (ii) segment operating cash flow from the Access segment at or above €200 million. Such forward-looking statements also include the statements regarding the expected level of restructuring costs in 2015 that can be found under the heading “Liquidity and capital resources”, and statements regarding the amount we would be required to pay in the future pursuant to our existing contractual obligations and off-balance sheet contingent commitments that can be found under the heading “Contractual obligations and off-balance sheet contingent commitments”. These and similar statements are based on management’s current views, estimates and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those anticipated by such statements. We caution readers not to place undue influence on these statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Presentation of financial information The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes presented elsewhere in this document. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union (EU). As of December 31, 2014, all IFRSs that the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) had published and that are mandatory are the same as those endorsed by the EU and mandatory in the EU, with the exception of IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement (revised December 2003)”, which the EU only partially adopted. The part not adopted by the EU has no impact on our financial statements. As a result, our consolidated financial statements for the years presented in this document in accordance with IFRS would be no different if we had applied International Financial Reporting Standards issued by the IASB. References to “IFRS” in this Form 20-F refer to IFRS as adopted by the EU. As a result of the purchase accounting treatment of the Lucent business combination required by IFRS, our results for 2014, 2013 and 2012 included several negative and non-cash impacts of purchase accounting entries. Changes in accounting standards as of January 1, 2014 Published IASB financial reporting standards, amendments and interpretations applicable to the Group that the EU has endorsed, that are mandatory in the EU as of January 1, 2014, and that the Group has adopted: · Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 “Investment Entities” (issued October 2012); and · IFRIC Interpretation 21: “Levies” (issued May 2013). Published IASB financial reporting standards, amendments and interpretations applicable to the Group that the EU has endorsed, that are mandatory in the EU as of July 1, 2014 and that the Group has adopted: · Annual Improvements to IFRSs (2010 – 2012) (issued December 2013) (certain of these annual improvements are only effective for annual periods beginning on or after July 1, 2014). Published IASB financial reporting standards, amendments and interpretations applicable to the Group that the EU has endorsed, that are mandatory in the EU as of January 1, 2014, and that the Group adopted in 2013: · Amendments to IAS 36 “Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets” (issued May 2013); · Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 “Consolidated Financial Statements, Joint Arrangements and Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities - Transition Guidance (issued June 2012); · Amendments to IAS 32 “Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities” (issued December 2011); · IFRS 10 “Consolidated Financial Statements” (issued May 2011); · IFRS 11 “Joint Arrangements” (issued May 2011); · IFRS 12 “Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities” (issued May 2011); · IAS 27 “Separate Financial Statements” (issued May 2011); and · IAS 28 “Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures” (issued May 2011). 48 Table of Contents OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS These new IFRS standards and amendments had no material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Critical accounting policies Our Operating and Financial Review and Prospects is based on our consolidated financial statements, which are prepared in accordance with IFRS as described in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. Some of the accounting methods and policies used in preparing our consolidated financial statements under IFRS are based on complex and subjective assessments by our management or on estimates based on past experience and assumptions deemed realistic and reasonable based on the circumstances concerned. The actual value of our assets, liabilities and shareholders’ equity and of our earnings could differ from the value derived from these estimates if conditions changed and these changes had an impact on the assumptions adopted. We believe that the accounting methods and policies listed below are the most likely to be affected by these estimates and assessments: a/ Valuation allowance for inventories and work in progress (see Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements) Inventories and work in progress are measured at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Valuation allowances for inventories and work in progress are calculated based on an analysis of foreseeable changes in demand, technology or the market, in order to determine obsolete or excess inventories and work in progress. b/ Impairment of customer receivables An impairment loss is recorded for customer receivables if the expected present value of the future receipts is lower than the carrying value. The amount of the impairment loss reflects both the customers’ ability to honor their debts and the age of the debts in question. A higher default rate than estimated or deterioration in our major customers’ creditworthiness could have an adverse impact on our future results. c/ Goodwill, other intangible assets and capitalized development costs Goodwill (see Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements) Goodwill net, is allocated, where applicable, to cash generating units that are equivalent to a product division or groups of product divisions within our reporting structure. Product divisions are two levels below our three reportable segments. In assessing whether goodwill should be subject to impairment, the carrying value of each cash generating unit is compared to its recoverable value. Recoverable value is the greater of the value in use and the fair value less costs to sell. The value in use of each cash generating unit is calculated using a five-year discounted cash flow analysis with a discounted residual value, corresponding to the capitalization to perpetuity of the normalized cash flows of year 5 (also called the Gordon Shapiro approach). The fair value less costs to sell of each cash generating unit is determined based upon the weighted average of the Gordon Shapiro approach described above and the following two approaches, being additional inputs that represent assumptions that a market participant would use when pricing the asset: · five-year discounted cash flow analysis with a Sales Multiple (Enterprise Value/Sales) to measure discounted residual value; and · five-year discounted cash flow analysis with an Operating Profit Multiple (Enterprise Value/Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortization - “EBITDA”) to measure discounted residual value. The discount rates used for the annual impairment tests are based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital (WACC). A single discount rate is used on the basis that risks specific to certain products or markets have been reflected in determining the cash flows. Growth and perpetual growth rates used are based on expected market trends. Other intangible assets (see Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements) Impairment tests are performed if we have indications of a potential reduction in the value of our intangible assets due to change in market trends or new technologies. The recoverable amounts are based on discounted future cash flows or fair values of the assets concerned. Capitalized development costs (see Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements) The Group evaluates the commercial and technical feasibility of development projects, for which costs are capitalized, and estimates the useful lives of the products resulting from the projects. Should a product fail to substantiate these evaluations, the Group may be required to impair some of the net capitalized development costs in the future. d/ Provision for warranty costs and other product sales reserves (see Note 25 to our consolidated financial statements) These provisions are calculated based on historical return rates and warranty costs expensed as well as on estimates. Costs and penalties ultimately paid can differ considerably from the amounts initially reserved and could therefore have a significant impact on future results. 49 Table of Contents 6 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS e/ Provisions for litigations (see Notes 25 and 31 to our consolidated financial statements) Certain legal proceedings are pending and cover a wide range of matters. Due to the inherent nature of litigation, the outcome or the cost of settlement may materially vary from estimates. f/ Deferred tax assets (see Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements) The evaluation of the Group’s capacity to utilize tax loss carry-forwards relies on significant judgment. The Group analyzes past events and the positive and negative elements of certain economic factors that may affect its business in the foreseeable future to determine the probability of its future utilization of these tax loss carry-forwards. This analysis is carried out regularly in each tax jurisdiction where significant deferred tax assets are recorded. If future taxable results are considerably different from those forecasted that support recording deferred tax assets, the Group will be obliged to revise downwards or upwards the amount of the deferred tax assets, which would have a significant impact on our financial results. g/ Pension and retirement obligations and other employee and post-employment benefit obligations (see Note 23 to our consolidated financial statements) Actuarial assumptions Our results of operations include the impact of significant pension and post-retirement benefits that are measured using actuarial valuations. Inherent in these valuations is a key assumption concerning discount rates in retirement plans and healthcare plans. This assumption is updated on an annual basis at the beginning of each fiscal year or more frequently upon the occurrence of significant events. In addition, discount rates are updated quarterly for those plans for which changes in these assumptions would have a material impact on our financials. Discount rates Discount rates for our U.S. plans are determined using the values published in the “original” CitiGroup Pension Discount Curve, which is based on AA-rated corporate bonds. Each future year’s expected benefit payments are discounted by the discount rate for the applicable year listed in the CitiGroup Curve, and for those years beyond the last year presented in the CitiGroup Curve for which we have expected benefit payments, we apply the discount rate of the last year presented in the Curve. After applying the discount rates to all future years’ benefits, we calculate a single discount rate that results in the same interest cost for the next period as the application of the individual rates would have produced. Discount rates for our non U.S. plans were determined based on Bloomberg AA Corporate yields until December 31, 2012. Since Bloomberg stopped publishing these yields, discount rates for our non U.S. plans are determined based on Iboxx AA Corporate yields starting January 1, 2013. Holding all other assumptions constant, a 0.5% increase or decrease in the discount rate would have increased or decreased the 2014 net pension and post-retirement benefits costs (determined in accordance with IAS 19 “Employee Benefits” (revised)) by approximately €75 million and €(34) million, respectively. Healthcare cost trends Regarding healthcare cost trends for our U.S. plans, our external actuaries annually review expected cost trends from numerous healthcare providers, recent developments in medical treatments, the utilization of medical services, and Medicare future premium rates published by the U.S. Government’s Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) as these premiums are reimbursed for some retirees. They apply these findings to the specific provisions and experience of our U.S. post-retirement healthcare plans in making their recommendations. In determining our assumptions, we review our recent experience together with our actuaries’ recommendations. Expected participation rates in retirement healthcare plans Our U.S. post-retirement healthcare plans allow participants to opt out of coverage at each annual enrollment period, and for almost all to opt back in at any future annual enrollment. An assumption is developed for the number of eligible retirees who will elect to participate in our plans at each future enrollment period. Our actuaries develop a recommendation based on the expected increases in the cost to be paid to a retiree participating in our U.S. plans and recent participation history. We review this recommendation annually after the annual enrollment has been completed and update it if necessary. Mortality assumptions Until September 30, 2014, we used the RP-2000 Combined Health Mortality table with Generational Projection based on the U.S. Society of Actuaries Scale AA. On October 27, 2014, the U.S. Society of Actuaries (SOA) issued new mortality tables. Starting December 31, 2014, we changed these assumptions to the RP-2014 White Collar table with MP-2014 mortality improvement scale for Management records and the RP-2014 Blue Collar table with MP-2014 mortality improvement scale for Occupational records. These changes had a U.S.$2.6 billion negative effect on the benefit obligation of our U.S. plans. These effects were recognized in our 2014 Statement of Comprehensive Income. Plan assets investment Plan assets are invested in many different asset categories (such as cash, equities, bonds, real estate and private equity). In the quarterly update of plan asset fair values, approximately 84% are based on closing date fair values and 16% have a one to three-month delay, as the fair values of private equity, venture capital, 50 Table of Contents OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS real estate and absolute return investments are not available in a short period. This is standard practice in the investment management industry. Assuming that the December 31, 2014 actual fair values of private equity, venture capital, real estate and absolute return investments were confirmed to be, after the one to three-month delay, 10% lower than the ones used for accounting purposes as of December 31, 2014, and since our U.S. Management pension plan has a material investment in these asset classes (and the asset ceiling described below is not applicable to this plan), other comprehensive income would be negatively impacted by approximately €308 million. Asset ceiling For retirees who were represented by the Communications Workers of America union and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers union, we expect to fund our current retiree healthcare and group life insurance obligations with Section 420 transfers from our U.S. Occupational pension plans. Section 420 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code provides for transfers of certain excess pension plan assets held by a defined benefit pension plan into a retiree health benefits account established to pay retiree health benefits and into a group life insurance account established to pay retiree life insurance benefits. This is considered as a refund from the pension plan when setting the asset ceiling. Depending on the type of Section 420 transfer, assets in excess of 120% or 125% of the funding obligation can be transferred. Using the methodology we selected to value plan assets and obligations for funding purposes (see Note 23 to our consolidated financial statements), we estimated that, as of December 31, 2014, the excess of assets above 120% of the plan obligations was U.S.$1.8 billion (€1.5 billion), and the excess above 125% of plan obligations was U.S.$1.4 billion (€1.2 billion). h/ Revenue recognition (see Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements) Most of the Group’s sales are generated from complex contractual arrangements that require significant revenue recognition judgments, particularly in the areas of the sale of goods and equipment with related services constituting multiple-element arrangements, construction contracts and contracts including software. Judgment is also needed in assessing the ability to collect the corresponding receivables. For revenues and expenses generated from construction contracts, the Group applies the percentage of completion method of accounting, provided certain specified conditions are met, based either on the achievement of contractually defined milestones or on costs incurred compared with total estimated costs. The determination of the stage of completion and the revenues to be recognized rely on numerous estimations based on costs incurred and acquired experience. Adjustments of initial estimates can, however, occur throughout the life of the contract, which can have significant impacts on our financial condition. Although estimates inherent in construction contracts are subject to uncertainty, certain situations exist whereby management is unable to reliably estimate the outcome of a construction contract. These situations can occur during the early stages of a contract due to a lack of historical experience or throughout the contract as significant uncertainties develop related to additional costs, claims and performance obligations, particularly with new technologies. Contracts that are multiple-element arrangements can include hardware products, stand-alone software, installation and/or integration services, extended warranty, and product roadmaps, as examples. Revenue for each unit of accounting is recognized when earned based on the relative fair value of each unit of accounting as determined by internal or third-party analyses of market-based prices. Significant judgment is required to allocate contract consideration to each unit of accounting and determine whether the arrangement is a single unit of accounting or a multiple-element arrangement. Depending upon how such judgment is exercised, the timing and amount of revenue recognized could differ significantly. For multiple-element arrangements that are based principally on licensing, selling or otherwise marketing software solutions, judgment is required as to whether such arrangements are accounted for under IAS 18 or IAS 11. Software arrangements requiring significant production, modification or customization are accounted for as a construction contract under IAS 11. All other software arrangements are accounted for under IAS 18, in which case the Group requires vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value to separate the multiple software elements. Significant judgment is required to determine the most appropriate accounting model to be applied in this environment and whether VSOE of fair value exists to allow separation of multiple software elements. For product sales made through distributors, product returns that are estimated according to contractual obligations and past sales statistics are recognized as a reduction of sales. Again, if the actual product returns were considerably different from those estimated, the resulting impact on the net income (loss) could be significant. i/ Restructuring costs and impact on goodwill impairment test On July 26, 2012, we announced the launch of the “Performance Program” to achieve additional cost reductions to bring total savings to €1.25 billion by the end of 2013. This program included the elimination of approximately 5,500 jobs across the Group, and provided for exiting or restructuring unprofitable Managed Services contracts, along with associated headcount reductions, and exiting or restructuring unprofitable markets. On June 19, 2013, we announced the launch of The Shift Plan. Through this plan and the remainder of the Performance Program, we aim at (i) reducing our fixed-cost base by €950 million in 2015 compared to our 2012 cost base at constant exchange rates (including fixed cost savings to be realized under the Performance Program) through the adoption of direct-channel operations, 51 Table of Contents 6 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Overview of 2014 additional consolidation of SG&A (selling, general and administrative) functions, and by refocusing our R&D capacity, (ii) generating revenues from the Core Networking segment at or above €7 billion with an operating margin at or above 12.5% in 2015, and (iii) generating segment operating cash flow from the Access segment at or above €200 million by the end of 2015. We estimate restructuring costs related to The Shift Plan at €950 million for all outstanding actions anticipated for the years between 2013 and 2015. For the year ended December 31, 2014, we expensed €238 million of restructuring costs for these actions. The remaining restructuring costs related to The Shift Plan will be reserved and expensed in future quarters. In compliance with sections 44 and 45 of IAS 36 “Impairment of Assets” and considering that we believe we are not committed to a restructuring program as long as we have not been able to expense it, we exclude future restructuring costs (and corresponding cost savings), if they have not been expensed, when we determine the value in use for the annual impairment test of goodwill. On the other hand, we fully took into account these future cash outflows and inflows in assessing the recoverability of our deferred tax assets and in determining the fair value less costs to sell of cash generating units (CGU), corresponding to the methodology described in Note 2c to our consolidated financial statements. We arrive at fair value less costs to sell of a CGU by basing it on a weighted average of three discounted cash flow approaches (two of the three using discounted residual values that are based respectively on a Sales multiple and an Operating Profit multiple), to arrive at a fair value that reflects assumptions that market participants would use when pricing a CGU. 6.1 Overview of 2014 In 2014, the telecommunications equipment and related services market witnessed mixed trends across different regions. Investments in IP and ultra-broadband access technologies, such as routing and LTE, led to robust investments in the U.S. notably in the first half of the year. China also benefitted from strong network investments as TD-LTE deployments accelerated early in 2014 while the telecommunications equipment market in Europe continued to show signs of easing. In addition to regional trends, industry trends also played a significant role in shaping the spending for telecommunications equipment and related services in 2014. The telecommunications industry continues to experience fast changes driven by the massive adoption of new mobile devices and of new applications and services. We estimate that approximately 3.9 billion people will be connected to the Internet by 2017 and that by 2020 there will be more than 70 billion connected devices. Growth of data traffic has put significant pressure on telecommunications providers to improve their networks in terms of coverage, capacity and quality. To meet these demands, network operators continue their transition to all-IP architectures, with an emphasis on fast access to their networks through copper, fiber, LTE and new digital services delivery. We are also seeing similar trends with cable operators, who are investing to deploy high-speed networks. Additionally, network and cloud infrastructure are intersecting, allowing for the hosting of enterprise and consumer applications. Web scale companies, such as Amazon and Google, and large enterprises are driving the development of huge data centers, providing seamless IP interconnection and digital services delivery on a large scale. From 2012 to 2017, we expect a 440% increase in data center traffic. IP routing is at the heart of the telecommunications equipment and related services industry transformation, impacting fixed and mobile broadband as well as cloud services. To better align ourselves with these industry trends, on June 19, 2013 we announced The Shift Plan, a detailed three-year plan to reposition our Company as a specialist provider of IP and Cloud Networking and Ultra-Broadband Access, the high-value equipment and services that are essential to high-performance networks. Our progress on The Shift Plan through December 31, 2014 can be found in Chapter 6.6 “Strategy and Outlook”. This combination of regional and industry trends resulted in mixed spending in the market for telecommunications equipment and related services in 2014. These trends, in addition to other factors, were key drivers of how our own businesses performed in 2014, with total sales decreasing 4.6% compared to 2013, as growth in technologies such as IP Routing and LTE was offset by the impacts of the restructuring of our Managed Services business. Further details on segment performance can be found in Chapter 6.2 “Consolidated and segment results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013.” 52 Table of Contents OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Consolidated and segment results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 6.2 Consolidated and segment results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 The following discussion takes into account our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, on the following basis: · Due to the sale of 85% of the Enterprise business in 2014, results pertaining to this business for 2014 were treated as discontinued operations and results for 2013 have been re-presented accordingly. Results for 2013 have also been re-presented to reflect the subsequent immaterial perimeter adjustments resulting from the sale of Enterprise. Revenues. Revenues totaled €13,178 million in 2014, a decline of 4.6% from €13,813 million in 2013. Approximately 64% of our revenues for 2014 were denominated in or linked to the U.S. dollar. When we translate our non-euro sales into euros for accounting purposes, there is an exchange rate impact based on the relative value of the euro versus other currencies, including the U.S. dollar. If there had been constant exchange rates in 2014 as compared to 2013 our consolidated revenues would have decreased by approximately 4.2% instead of the 4.6% decrease actually reported. This is based on applying (i) to our sales made directly in currencies other than the euro effected during 2014, the average exchange rate that applied for 2013, instead of the average exchange rate that applied for 2014, and (ii) to our exports (mainly from Europe) effected during 2014 which are denominated in other currencies and for which we enter into hedging transactions, our average hedging rates that applied for 2013. In the fourth quarter of 2014, the strengthening in the value of other currencies including the U.S. dollar, relative to the euro had a positive effect on our reported revenues. Our management believes that providing our investors with our revenues for 2014 at a constant exchange rate facilitates the comparison of the evolution of our revenues with that of our competitors in the industry. Additionally, if there had been constant exchange rates in 2014 as compared to 2013 and a constant perimeter, meaning that we would exclude revenues related to LGS Innovations that was sold at the end of the first quarter of 2014, our consolidated revenues would have decreased by approximately 3.0% instead of the 4.6% decrease actually reported. Our management uses our revenues for 2014 at a constant exchange rate and constant perimeter internally and they believe that providing our investors with this information facilitates the comparison of the evolution of our revenues with that of our competitors in the industry. The table below sets forth our revenues as reported, the conversion and hedging impact of the euro/other currencies, the perimeter adjustment for LGS and our revenues at a constant rate and constant perimeter: (In millions of euros) Year ended December 31, 2014 Year ended December 31, 2013 % Change Revenues as reported 13,178 13,813 -4.6% Conversion impact euro/other currencies 60 0.5% Hedging impact euro/other currencies (1) 0.0% Perimeter (LGS) (41) (210) Revenues at constant rate and constant perimeter 13,196 13,603 -3.0% Revenues by Segment and division The following table sets forth revenues by segment and division: (In millions of euros) 2014 2013 Core Networking 5,966 6,151 IP Routing 2,368 2,253 IP Transport 2,114 2,120 IP Platforms 1,484 1,778 Access 7,157 7,447 Wireless 4,685 4,510 Fixed 2,048 2,069 Managed Services 369 791 Licensing 55 77 Other 41 210 Other and Unallocated 14 5 TOTAL 13,178 13,813 53 Table of Contents 6 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Consolidated and segment results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 Core Networking segment Revenues in our Core Networking segment, which consists of our IP Routing, IP Transport and IP Platforms divisions, were €5,966 million in 2014, a decrease of 3.0% from €6,151 million in 2013, using current exchange rates. When we translate the non-euro portion of Core Networking sales into euros for accounting purposes, there is an exchange rate impact based on the relative value of the euro versus other currencies, including the U.S. dollar. If there had been constant exchange rates in 2014 as compared to 2013, our Core Networking segment revenues would have decreased by 2.4 % instead of the 3.0% decrease actually reported. Revenues in our IP Routing division were €2,368 million in 2014, an increase of 5.1% from €2,253 million in 2013. The year-over-year growth was driven by the continued success of our IP/MPLS service router portfolio, as service providers invest to keep up with the growing demand for bandwidth for services such as video. In 2014, we expanded our portfolio with the introduction of the Virtualized Service Router (VSR) which allows service providers and large enterprises to build a flexible network and operate service router software on standard servers. Our IP Core router, the 7950 XRS, continued to build momentum through 2014, with 36 total contracts as of the end of 2014. Nuage Networks™, our wholly owned subsidiary focused on software defined networking (SDN) solutions, continued its traction in the marketplace, closing 2014 with 16 customers. Nuage Networks also introduced its Virtualized Networks Services (VNS) solution which will help enterprises and service providers extend the benefits of SDN to branch locations. Revenues in our IP Transport division, which includes our Terrestrial and Submarine Optics businesses, were €2,114 million in 2014, a decrease of 0.2% from €2,120 million in 2013. Within IP Transport, we witnessed mixed trends as revenues in our terrestrial business increased in 2014, driven by our strength in our WDM portfolio. This increase was offset by declines in our Submarine Optics business, which showed signs of an upward cycle recovery and order backlog build-up as we exited 2014. Within our WDM portfolio, our 1830 Photonic Service Switch continues to grow as a percentage of total optical revenues, reaching 49% in 2014, compared to 38% in 2013. Our 100 Gigabit optical single carrier coherent technology continues to be one of the growth drivers in our WDM portfolio, as its relative share of port shipments continues to increase, to 34% in 2014 from 26% in 2013. Revenues in our IP Platforms division, which includes software and related services, were €1,484 million in 2014, a decrease of 16.5% from €1,778 million in 2013. 2014 was a transitional phase for the IP Platforms business, reflecting our strategy to rationalize the portfolio and leverage on growth engines such as IP Communications (including IMS and Subscriber Data Management), Motive Customer Experience and Policy & Charging. Our portfolio rationalization drove the decline in revenues in 2014, as well as weaker revenues from legacy platforms. These trends were partially offset by growth in our Motive portfolio and resilience in our IMS portfolio which was impacted by delayed VoLTE rollouts in the latter part of the year. Access segment Revenues in our Access segment, which consists of our Wireless Access, Fixed Access, Managed Services and Licensing divisions, were €7,157 million in 2014, a decrease of 3.9% from €7,447 million in 2013, using current exchange rates. When we translate the non-euro portion of Access sales into euros for accounting purposes, there is an exchange rate impact based on the relative value of the euro versus other currencies, including the U.S. dollar. If there had been constant exchange rates in 2014 as compared to 2013, our Access segment revenues would have decreased by 3.6% instead of the 3.9% increase actually reported. Revenues in our Wireless Access division increased 3.9% in 2014, to €4,685 million from €4,510 million in 2013. Within the Wireless Access business, we witnessed strong year-over-year growth in our LTE revenues, driven by strong U.S. investments throughout the year and LTE deployments in China, notably in the first half of the year. This growth overcame declines in legacy technologies. Throughout 2014, we continued to diversify our LTE customer base, now with over 70 contracts. In 2014, we also expanded our focus on small cell adoption, with 76 total customers and the announcement of our Multi-Standard Enterprise Small Cell device, in collaboration with Qualcomm that will allow operators to extend 3G, 4G LTE and Wi-Fi connectivity and coverage into the office for in-building coverage. Revenues in our Fixed Access division were €2,048 million in 2014, a decrease of 1.0% from €2,069 million in 2013, as growth in VDSL2 vectoring and fiber, notably in Europe and Asia Pacific, excluding China, was offset by declines in legacy products and the slowdown in specific customer rollouts in North America in the latter part of the year. During 2014, we launched the industry’s first Time and Wavelength Division Multiplexed Passive Optical Networks (TWDM-PON) solution, also known as NG-PON2, which can converge residential, business and mobile traffic onto one network. We also introduced our G.fast solution that allows operators to place fiber closer to subscribers’ homes, with 10 trials concluded in 2014. Revenues in our Managed Services division were €369 million in 2014 compared to €791 million in 2013, a decrease of 53.4%, as this business continued to be impacted by our strategy to terminate or restructure margin-dilutive contracts. Revenues in our Licensing division were €55 million in 2014 compared to €77 million in 2013, a decrease of 28.6%. Other segment Revenues in our Other segment, which included our Government business which was sold in the first quarter of 2014, were €41 million in 2014 compared to €210 million in 2013, which included a full year of results. 54 Table of Contents OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Consolidated and segment results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 Revenues by geographical market Revenues in 2014 and in 2013 by geographical market (calculated based upon the location of the customer) are as shown in the table below: (In millions of euros) Revenues by geographical market France Other WesternEurope Rest of Europe China Other Asia Pacific U.S. Other Americas Rest of world Consolidated 2014 771 1,929 282 1,342 1,289 5,488 1,009 1,068 13,178 2013 798 2,125 361 1,097 1,230 5,986 1,209 1,007 13,813 % Change 2014 vs. 2013 -3% -9% -22% 22% 5% -8% -17% 6% -4.6% In 2014, the United States accounted for 41.6% of revenues, down from 43.3% in 2013. Revenues declined 8% in the U.S. as investments in LTE were not enough to offset declines in other technologies, mainly in legacy optical and Fixed Access. Europe accounted for 22.6% of revenues in 2014 (5.9% in France, 14.6% in Other Western Europe and 2.1% in Rest of Europe), down from 23.8% in 2013 (5.8% in France, 15.4% in Other Western Europe and 2.6% in Rest of Europe). Europe witnessed encouraging trends in 2014, particularly in IP Routing, IP Transport and Fixed Networks, while revenues were tempered by the impact of the implementation of our strategy in Managed Services. Within Europe, revenues declined in each area: 3% in France, 9% in Other Western Europe and 22% in Rest of Europe. Asia-Pacific accounted for 20.0% of revenues in 2014 (10.2% in China and 9.8% in Other Asia Pacific), up from 16.8% in 2013 (7.9% in China and 8.9% in Other Asia Pacific), with growth mainly attributable to increased spending in China as LTE was deployed in the country. Revenues in Other Americas were negatively impacted by a slowdown in Central and Latin America in 2014 driving revenues to decline 17% from 2013, as its share of total revenue declined from 8.8% to 7.7%. The Rest of World share of total revenue increased to 8.1% in 2014 compared to 7.3% in 2013, as revenues increased 6% in the region. Gross Profit. In 2014, gross profit as a percentage of revenues increased to 33.4% of revenues compared to 31.2% in 2013, and increased in absolute terms, to €4,408 million in 2014 from €4,322 million in 2013. The increase in gross profit was mainly attributable to a favorable product mix, operational improvements and reduced fixed costs. We sell a wide variety of products in many geographic markets. Profitability per product can vary based on a product’s maturity and our overall competitive position. In addition, profitability can be impacted by geographic area, depending on the local competitive environment, our market share and the procurement policy of our customers. During 2014, we witnessed trends, where, as noted above, a shift in product mix positively impacted gross profit. Administrative and selling expenses. In 2014, administrative and selling expenses were €1,621 million or 12.3% of revenues compared to €1,862 million or 13.4% of revenues in 2013. The 12.9% decline in administrative and selling expenses year-over-year reflects the progress we have made in reducing fixed costs as part of The Shift Plan launched in 2013. Included in administrative and selling expenses are non-cash purchase accounting entries resulting from the Lucent business combination of €27 million in 2014 and €32 million in 2013. Research and development costs. Research and development costs were €2,215 million or 16.8% of revenues in 2014, after the net impact of capitalization of €(2) million of development expense, a decrease of 2.3% from €2,268 million or 16.4% of revenues after the net impact of capitalization of €(34) million of development expense in 2013. The 2.3% decrease in research and development costs reflects a reduction in the overall level of R&D, notably for legacy technologies. Capitalization of R&D expense was negative in both 2014 and 2013, reflecting the fact that the amortization of our capitalized R&D costs was greater than new R&D costs capitalized during this period. Included in research and development costs are non-cash purchase accounting (PPA) entries resulting from the Lucent business combination of €24 million in 2014 and €54 million in 2013 with the decline due mainly to the phasing out of the amortization of certain in-process R&D. Income (loss) from operating activities before restructuring costs, litigations, gain/(loss) on disposal of consolidated entities, impairment of assets and post-retirement benefit plan amendments. We recorded income from operating activities before restructuring costs, litigations, gain/(loss) on disposal of consolidated entities, impairment of assets and post-retirement benefit plan amendments of €572 million in 2014 compared to income of €192 million in 2013. The improvement in 2014 reflects higher gross profits in addition to lower administrative and selling expenses and research and development costs. Non-cash purchase accounting (PPA) entries resulting from the Lucent business combination had a negative impact of €51 million in 2014, which was lower than the impact of €86 million in 2013 mainly due to the phasing out of the amortization of certain in-process R&D. 55 Table of Contents 6 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Consolidated and segment results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 The tables below set forth our revenues and segment operating income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013: (In millions of euros) Twelve months ended December 31, 2014 Core Networking Access Other TotalReportableSegments Other and unallocated amounts Total Revenues 5,966 7,157 41 13,164 14 13,178 Segment Operating Income (Loss) 630 42 - 672 (49) 623 PPA Adjustments (excluding restructuring costs and impairment of assets) (51) Income (loss) from operating activities before restructuring costs, litigations, gain/(loss) on disposal of consolidated entities, impairment of assets and post-retirement benefit plan amendments 572 (In millions of euros) Twelve months ended December 31, 2013 Core Networking Access Other TotalReportableSegments Other and unallocated amounts Total Revenues 6,151 7,447 210 13,808 5 13,813 Segment Operating Income (Loss) 479 (85) 5 399 (121) 278 PPA Adjustments (excluding restructuring costs and impairment of assets) (86) Income (loss) from operating activities before restructuring costs, litigations, gain/(loss) on disposal of consolidated entities, impairment of assets and post-retirement benefit plan amendments 192 In 2014, a segment operating income of € 623 million for the Group, adjusted for €51 million in PPA yielded income from operating activities before restructuring costs, litigations, gain/(loss) on disposal of consolidated entities, impairment of assets and post-retirement benefit plan amendments of €572 million. In 2013, a segment operating income of €278 million for the Group, adjusted for €86 million in PPA yielded an income from operating activities before restructuring costs, litigations, gain/(loss) on disposal of consolidated entities, impairment of assets and post-retirement benefit plan amendments of €192 million. Operating income in our Core Networking segment was €630 million or 10.6% of revenues in 2014, compared with an operating income of €479 million or 7.8% of revenues in 2013. The year-over-year improvement in Core Networking segment operating income reflects the efforts we have made to improve our cost structure, notably with operating expenses, leading to higher operating income contributions from certain divisions. Operating income in our Access segment was €42 million in 2014, compared with an operating loss of €85 million in 2013. The year-over-year improvement in our Access segment operating income reflects the work we are doing to improve our cost structure to achieve profitability in our Wireless Access division as part of The Shift Plan in addition to continued strong contribution from our Fixed Networks division. Segment operating income in the Other segment was €0 million in 2014, as this business was sold in the first quarter of 2014, compared with an income of €5 million or 2.4% of revenues in 2013, which included a full year of results. Restructuring Costs. Restructuring costs were €574 million in 2014, compared to €518 million in 2013. The cost of new restructuring plans increased in 2014 compared to 2013 due to the implementation of The Shift Plan and primarily related to severance payments, early retirement payments, costs for notice periods not worked, training costs of terminated employees, costs linked with the closure of facilities or the discontinuance of product lines and costs arising from plans that materially change the scope of business undertaken by the Group. Litigations. In 2014, we booked a litigation credit of €7 million compared to 2013, when we booked a litigation charge of €2 million. Gain/(loss) on disposal of consolidated entities. In 2014, we recognized a gain on the disposal of consolidated entities of €20 million mainly related to a €39 million gain from the sale of our cyber-security services and solutions and communications services activities partially offset by an €11 million loss recognized related to the sale of LGS Innovations LLC, compared to 2013, when we booked a gain on the disposal of consolidated entities of €2 million. Impairment of assets. In 2014, we did not book any charges related to the impairment of assets. In 2013, we booked an 56 Table of Contents OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Consolidated and segment results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 impairment of assets charge of €548 million, mainly related to our Wireless product division goodwill. Post-retirement benefit plan amendments. In 2014, we booked a €112 million credit that included (i) an €80 million gain related to a reduction in our obligation to pay for formerly represented retirees who are subject to annual dollar caps in exchange for a three year extension of post-retirement healthcare benefits, (ii) a €25 million gain related to the discontinuation of the subsidy for retiree healthcare benefits for former Management retirees who retired on or after March 1, 1990 and who are under 65 years old and (iii) a €7 million gain related to the conversion of defined benefit pension plans for current active Dutch employees into a defined contribution pension plan under which the Group no longer guarantees any pension increase. In 2013, we booked a €135 million credit that included (i) a €55 million gain related to the change in retiree healthcare benefits for formerly represented retirees resulting from the extension of benefits until December 31, 2016 and a reduction in our obligation to pay for retirees who are subject to annual dollar caps, (ii) a €41 million gain related to the amendment of AUXAD, a French supplemental pension plan, to align it with the conditions of the French AGIRC (General Association of Pension Institutions for Managerial Staff) scheme, (iii) a €35 million gain related to an amendment of German pension plans where the traditional pension plans of most active German employees have been transferred into a new cash balance plan whose benefits are lower than in previous plans and (iv) a gain of €4 million related to the amendment of our U.S. long term disability plan, where long-term medical benefits for disabled U.S. former employees will be provided by the retiree medical plan. Income (loss) from operating activities. Income (loss) from operating activities was an income of €137 million in 2014, compared to a loss of €739 million in 2013. The improvement in income (loss) from operating activities in 2014 is due to no impairment charge, higher gross profits, lower administrative and selling expenses and research and development costs and a gain on disposal of consolidated entities, partially offset by higher restructuring costs and lower contributions from post-retirement benefit plan amendments. Finance costs. Finance costs were €291 million in 2014, a decrease from €392 million in 2013. The decrease in finance costs was mainly due to a decrease in interest paid, from €462 million in 2013 to €359 million in 2014, slightly offset by a decrease in interest earned from €70 million in 2013 to €68 million in 2014. The 2014 decrease in interest paid is mainly due to the refinancing and balance sheet restructuring activities leading to a decrease in our gross financial debt, notably attributable to the early repayment in January 2014 of the outstanding U.S.$931 million on the 7.75% convertible trust preferred securities issued by Lucent Technologies Capital Trust I. Other financial income (loss). Other financial losses were €211 million in 2014, compared to €318 million in 2013. In 2014, other financial loss consisted primarily of (i) a €101 million loss related to the impact of the re-evaluation of the Alcatel-Lucent USA, Inc. Senior Secured Credit Facility that we repaid on August 19, 2014, (ii) a loss of €44 million related to the financial component of pension and post-retirement benefit costs and (iii) a loss of €30 million related to partial repurchase of our Senior Notes due 2016. These losses were partially offset by a reversal of impairment loss of €15 million. In 2013, other financial losses consisted primarily of (i) €134 million related to a net loss on convertible bonds and notes repurchased in 2013, (ii) a loss of €84 million related to the financial component of pension and post-retirement benefit costs , (iii) a loss of €39 million related to the change of estimated future cash flows in respect of the irrevocable commitment we made to repay in January 2014 the 7.75% convertible trust preferred securities issued by Lucent Technologies Capital Trust I, (iv) a loss of €24 million related to the amortization of outstanding costs arising from the repayment of the Alcatel-Lucent USA, Inc. U.S.$500 million asset sale facility established in 2013, (v) a net loss of €24 million on foreign exchange and (vi) a loss of €21 million related to the accelerated amortization of outstanding costs related to the repayment of the Alcatel-Lucent USA, Inc euro tranche Senior Secured Credit Facility established in 2013. Share in net income (losses) of equity affiliates. Share in net income of equity affiliates was €15 million in 2014, compared with €7 million in 2013. Income (loss) before income tax and discontinued operations. Income (loss) before income tax and discontinued operations was a loss of €350 million in 2014 compared to a loss of €1,442 million in 2013. Income tax (expense) benefit. We had an income tax benefit of €316 million in 2014, compared to an income tax benefit of €173 million in 2013. The income tax benefit for 2014 resulted from a current income tax charge of €61 million in addition to a net deferred income tax benefit of €377 million. The €377 million net deferred income tax benefit mainly includes €363 million of deferred tax assets recognized due to the reassessment of the recoverability of deferred tax assets in the United States. The income tax benefit for 2013 resulted from a current income tax charge of €56 million in addition to a net deferred income tax benefit of €229 million. The €229 million net deferred income tax benefit included: (i) €85 million in deferred tax benefits related to Alcatel-Lucent USA, Inc.’s post-retirement benefit plans, (ii) €64 million related to the reversal of deferred tax liabilities mainly related to the repayment of the Alcatel-Lucent USA, Inc. 2.875% Series A and B convertible debentures, the irrevocable commitment to repay the Lucent Technologies Capital Trust I’s 7.75% convertible trust preferred securities and the repayment of the 2015 OCEANE (iii) €58 million of other deferred income tax benefits, net, primarily related to the re-assessment of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets in the U.S. and (iv) €45 million of deferred income tax benefits related to the reversal of deferred tax liabilities accounted for in the purchase price allocation of Lucent. These benefits were slightly offset by a deferred tax charge of €23 million related to the post-retirement benefit plan amendments we implemented in 2013. Income (loss) from continuing operations. We had a loss from continuing operations of €34 million in 2014 compared to a loss of €1,269 million in 2013. Income (loss) from discontinued operations. We had a loss from discontinued operations of €49 million in 2014 mainly related to the disposal of our Enterprise business. We had a loss from discontinued operations of €25 million in 2013 mainly 57 Table of Contents 6 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Consolidated and segment results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 related to settlements of litigations related to businesses disposed of in prior periods and a post-closing purchase price adjustment in connection with the Genesys business disposal. Non-controlling Interests. Non-controlling interests accounted for an income of €35 million in 2014, compared to an income of €10 million in 2013. The improvement in 2014 compared to 2013 is due largely to income from our operations in China through Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell, Co. Ltd. and its subsidiaries. Net income (loss) attributable to equity holders of the parent. A net loss of €118 million was attributable to equity holders of the parent in 2014, compared to a net loss of €1,304 million in 2013. 6.3 Consolidated and segment results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to the year ended December 31, 2012 The following discussion takes into account our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, on the following basis: · As part of The Shift Plan announced on June 19, 2013, effective from July 1, 2013, we implemented a new organization composed of three reportable segments: Core Networking, Access and Other. The results of operations for the comparable 2012 period are re-presented according to this organization in order to facilitate comparison with 2013. · Due to the sale of 85% of the Enterprise business in 2014, results pertaining to this business for 2013 and 2012 were re-presented and treated as discontinued operations. Results for 2013 and 2012 have also been re-presented to reflect the subsequent immaterial perimeter adjustments resulting from the sale of Enterprise. Revenues. Revenues totaled €13,813 million in 2013, an increase of 0.4% from €13,764 million in 2012. Approximately 61% of our revenues for 2013 were denominated in or linked to the U.S. dollar. When we translate our non-euro sales into euros for accounting purposes, there is an exchange rate impact based on the relative value of the euro versus other currencies, including the U.S. dollar. The decline in the value of other currencies, including the U.S. dollar, relative to the euro in 2013 compared with 2012 had a negative effect on our reported revenues. If there had been constant exchange rates in 2013 as compared to 2012, our consolidated revenues would have increased by approximately 3.5% instead of the 0.4% increase actually reported. This is based on applying (i) to our sales made directly in currencies other than the euro effected during 2013, the average exchange rate that applied for 2012, instead of the average exchange rate that applied for 2013, and (ii) to our exports (mainly from Europe) effected during 2013 which are denominated in other currencies and for which we enter into hedging transactions, our average hedging rates that applied for 2012. Our management believes that providing our investors with our revenues for 2013 at a constant exchange rate facilitates the comparison of the evolution of our revenues with that of our competitors in the industry. The table below sets forth our revenues as reported, the conversion and hedging impact of the euro/other currencies and our revenues at a constant rate: (In millions of euros) Year ended December 31, 2013 Year ended December 31, 2012 % Change Revenues as reported 13,813 13,764 0.4% Conversion impact euro/other currencies 442 3.2% Hedging impact euro/other currencies (9) -0.1% Revenues at constant rate 14,246 13,764 3.5% 58 Table of Contents OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Consolidated and segment results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to the year ended December 31, 2012 Revenues by Segment and division The following table sets forth revenues by segment and division: (In millions of euros) 2013 2012 Core Networking 6,151 6,233 IP Routing 2,253 2,141 IP Transport 2,120 2,369 IP Platforms 1,778 1,723 Access 7,447 7,293 Wireless 4,510 4,151 Fixed 2,069 2,030 Managed Services 791 1,000 Licensing 77 112 Other 210 195 Other and Unallocated 5 43 TOTAL 13,813 13,764 Core Networking segment Revenues in our Core Networking segment, which consists of our IP Routing, IP Transport and IP Platforms divisions, were €6,151 million in 2013, a decrease of 1.3% from €6,233 million in 2012, using 2013 exchange rates. When we translate the non-euro portion of Core Networking sales into euros for accounting purposes, there is an exchange rate impact based on the relative value of the euro versus other currencies, including the U.S. dollar. The decline in the value of other currencies, including the U.S. dollar, relative to the euro in 2013 as compared to 2012 had a negative impact on our reported revenues. If there had been constant exchange rates in 2013 as compared to 2012, our Core Networking segment revenues would have increased by 2.0 % instead of the 1.3% decrease actually reported. Revenues in our IP Routing division were €2,253 million in 2013, an increase of 5.2% from €2,141 million in 2012. The year-over-year growth was driven by the continuation of the success we experienced in 2012 of our IP/MPLS service router portfolio, where growth in the market was driven by service providers spending to enhance their ability to deliver IP-based business and consumer services, including 100 Gigabit Ethernet, as well as spending for IP mobile backhaul deployments. Our IP Core router, the 7950 XRS, has continued to build momentum through 2013, with 14 contracts awarded during 2013, bringing our total to 20. In 2013, we extended our portfolio and announced the launch of Nuage Networks™, our wholly owned subsidiary focused on software defined networking (SDN) solutions, which has developed an open software-based solution to address key datacenter network constraints that limit the adoption of cloud services. Revenues in our IP Transport division, which includes our terrestrial and submarine Optics businesses, were €2,120 million in 2013, a decrease of 10.5% from €2,369 million in 2012, since growth in our WDM portfolio, within the terrestrial business, was not enough to offset declines we continued to experience in both our SONET/SDH legacy terrestrial equipment as well as our submarine optics business. The submarine optics business experienced a low point in business activity in the first half of 2013, but showed signs of recovery in the second half of 2013. As 2013 progressed, revenues stabilized within our IP Transport business as growth accelerated in our WDM products and our submarine optics business experienced a recovery in orders. Within our WDM portfolio, our 1830 Photonic Service Switch continues to grow as a percentage of total optical revenues, reaching 38% in 2013, compared to 31% in 2012. Our 100 Gigabit optical single carrier coherent technology continues to be one of the growth drivers in our WDM portfolio, as its relative share of port shipments continues to increase, from 12% in 2012 to 26% in 2013. Revenues in our IP Platforms division, which includes software and related services, were €1,778 million in 2013, an increase of 3.2% from €1,723 million in 2012. The introduction of LTE services by operators and overall smartphone proliferation have been the basis for growth within this business, with specific strength in our Customer Experience Solutions and our Advanced Communications portfolio, which includes IMS and Subscriber Data Management. Our Network Function Virtualization platform continued to gain momentum in the industry in 2013, exiting the year with 8 proof-of-concept trials, including for some large service providers. Access segment Revenues in our Access segment, which consists of our Wireless Access, Fixed Access, Managed Services and Licensing divisions, were €7,447 million in 2013, an increase of 2.1 % from €7,293 million in 2012, using 2013 exchange rates. When we translate the non-euro portion of Access sales into euros for accounting purposes, there is an exchange rate impact based on the relative value of the euro versus other currencies, including the U.S. dollar. The decline in the value of other currencies, including the U.S. dollar, relative to the euro in 2013 as compared to 2012 had a negative impact on our reported revenues. If there had been constant exchange rates in 2013 as compared to 2012, our Access segment revenues would have increased by 5.1% instead of the 2.1 % increase actually reported. Revenues in our Wireless Access division increased 8.6% in 2013, to €4,510 million from €4,151 million in 2012. Within the 59 Table of Contents 6 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Consolidated and segment results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to the year ended December 31, 2012 Wireless Access business, we witnessed strong year-over-year growth in our LTE revenues, driven by strong U.S. investments throughout 2013 and TD-LTE deployments in China later in the year. This growth was tempered by the continued overall declines in our 2G/3G technologies that we experienced in 2012, since service providers are focusing their investments in next-generation technologies. Throughout 2013, our LTE overlay strategy continued to gain momentum and we continued to focus on driving small cell adoption. Revenues in our Fixed Access division were €2,069 million in 2013, an increase of 1.9% from €2,030 million in 2012, as we saw growth continue from 2012 in our copper and fiber businesses, notably in the US and Europe, while legacy products continued their decline as experienced in the past. Service providers continue to show interest in copper revitalization, through VDSL2 vectoring, which allows speed enhancements over existing copper networks. Revenues in our Managed Services division were €791 million in 2013 compared to €1,000 million in 2012, a decrease of 20.9%. The decline in revenues resulted from the impacts of renegotiating or exiting of margin-dilutive contracts that we began in 2012. Revenues in our Licensing division were €77 million in 2013 compared to €112 million in 2012, a decrease of 31.3%, as we continue to reset this business after its reorganization in 2012. Following the 2013 termination of our agreement with RPX Corporation, a company that monetizes patent portfolios, we have decided to directly address monetization opportunities. Other segment Revenues in our Other segment, which comprised our Government business, were €210 million in 2013, an increase of 7.7% from €195 million in 2012. Revenues by geographical market Revenues in 2013 and in 2012 by geographical market (calculated based upon the location of the customer) are as shown in the table below: (In millions of euros) Revenues by geographical market France Other Western Europe Rest of Europe China Other Asia Pacific U.S. Other Americas Rest of world Consolidated 2013 798 2,125 361 1,097 1,230 5,986 1,209 1,007 13,813 2012 669 2,255 429 1,053 1,363 5,339 1,633 1,023 13,764 % Change 2013 vs. 2012 19% -6% -16% 4% -10% 12% -26% -2% 0.4% In 2013, the United States accounted for 43.3% of revenues, up from 38.8% in 2012. Revenues grew 12% in the U.S. as mobile data traffic growth continued to drive investments in technologies such as LTE and IP. Europe accounted for 23.8% of revenues in 2013 (5.8% in France, 15.4% in Other Western Europe and 2.6% in Rest of Europe), down from 24.4% in 2012 (4.9% in France, 16.4% in Other Western Europe and 3.1% in Rest of Europe) as easing of cautiousness in the second half of 2013 was not enough to offset declines registered in the first half. Within Europe, trends were mixed as revenues increased 19% in France, fell 6% in Other Western Europe and fell 16% in Rest of Europe. Asia-Pacific accounted for 16.8% of revenues in 2013 (7.9% in China and 8.9% in Other Asia Pacific), down from 17.6% in 2012 (7.7% in China and 9.9% in Other Asia Pacific), as declines in Other Asia Pacific were partially offset by growth in China in the second half of 2013, driven by TD-LTE roll-outs. Revenues in Other Americas were negatively impacted by a slowdown in Central and Latin America in 2013 driving revenues to decline 26% from 2012, as its share of total revenue declined from 11.9% to 8.8%. The Rest of World share of total revenue declined to 7.3% in 2013 from 7.4% in 2012, as revenues declined 2% year-over-year. Gross Profit. In 2013, gross profit as a percentage of revenues increased to 31.2% of revenues compared to 29.1% in 2012, and increased in absolute terms, to €4,322 million in 2013 from €4,011 million in 2012. The increase in gross profit was mainly attributable to a favorable product mix, operational improvements and reduced fixed costs. We sell a wide variety of products in many geographic markets. Profitability per product can vary based on a product’s maturity, the required intensity of R&D and our overall competitive position. In addition, profitability can be impacted by geographic area, depending on the local competitive environment, our market share and the procurement policy of our customers. During 2013, we witnessed trends, where, as noted above, a shift in product mix positively impacted gross profit. Administrative and selling expenses. In 2013, administrative and selling expenses were €1,862 million or 13.5% of revenues compared to €2,161 million or 15.7% of revenues in 2012. The 13.8% decline in administrative and selling expenses year-over-year reflects the progress we have made in reducing fixed costs as part of our Performance Program launched in 2012 and The Shift Plan launched in 2013. Included in administrative and selling expenses are non-cash purchase accounting entries resulting from the Lucent business combination of €32 million in 2013 and €118 million in 2012, with the decline due to the phasing out of amortization of some intangible assets and the impairment of other intangible assets related to CDMA, in the Access segment, that were included in the purchase price allocation entries relating to the Lucent business combination (“PPA”) as part of the annual impairment test of goodwill performed in 2012. Research and development costs. Research and development costs were €2,268 million or 16.4% of revenues in 2013, after the net impact of capitalization of €(34) million of development 60 Table of Contents OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Consolidated and segment results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to the year ended December 31, 2012 expense, a decrease of 2.7% from €2,330 million or 16.9% of revenues after the net impact of capitalization of €(12) million of development expense in 2012. The 2.7% decrease in research and development costs reflects a reduction in the overall level of R&D as well as a larger impact from the capitalization of R&D expense. Capitalization of R&D expense was negative in both 2013 and 2012, reflecting the fact that the amortization of our capitalized R&D costs was greater than new R&D costs capitalized during this period. Included in research and development costs are non-cash purchase accounting entries resulting from the Lucent business combination of €54 million in 2013 and €112 million in 2012 with the decline due mainly to the phasing out of amortization of in-process R&D as well as the impairment of some intangible assets related to CDMA, in the Access segment, that were included in PPA as part of the annual impairment test of goodwill performed in 2012. Income (loss) from operating activities before restructuring costs, litigations, gain/(loss) on disposal of consolidated entities, impairment of assets and post-retirement benefit plan amendments. We recorded income from operating activities before restructuring costs, litigations, gain/(loss) on disposal of consolidated entities, impairment of assets and post-retirement benefit plan amendments of €192 million in 2013 compared to a loss of €480 million in 2012. The improvement in 2013 reflects higher gross profits in addition to lower administrative and selling expenses and research and development costs. Non-cash purchase accounting entries resulting from the Lucent business combination had a negative impact of €86 million in 2013, which was lower than the impact of €230 million in 2012 mainly due to the phasing out of amortization of in-process R&D as well as the impairment of some intangible assets related to CDMA, in the Access segment, that were included in PPA as part of the annual impairment test of goodwill performed in 2012. The tables below set forth our revenues and segment operating income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012: (In millions of euros) Twelve months ended December 31, 2013 Core Networking Access Other Total Reportable Segments Other and unallocated amounts Total Revenues 6,151 7,447 210 13,808 5 13,813 Segment Operating Income (Loss) 479 (85) 5 399 (121) 278 PPA Adjustments (excluding restructuring costs and impairment of assets) (86) Income (loss) from operating activities before restructuring costs, litigations, gain/(loss) on disposal of consolidated entities, impairment of assets and post-retirement benefit plan amendments 192 (In millions of euros) Twelve months ended December 31, 2012 CoreNetworking Access Other Total Reportable Segments Other and unallocated amounts Total Revenues 6,233 7,293 195 13,721 43 13,764 Segment Operating Income (Loss) 153 (323) 20 (150) (100) (250) PPA Adjustments (excluding restructuring costs and impairment of assets) (230) Income (loss) from operating activities before restructuring costs, litigations, gain/(loss) on disposal of consolidated entities, impairment of assets and post-retirement benefit plan amendments (480) In 2013, a segment operating income of € 278 million for the Group, adjusted for €86 million in PPA yielded income from operating activities before restructuring costs, litigations, gain/(loss) on disposal of consolidated entities, impairment of assets and post-retirement benefit plan amendments of €192 million. In 2012, a segment operating loss of €250 million for the Group, adjusted for €230 million in PPA yielded a loss from operating activities before restructuring costs, litigations, gain/(loss) on disposal of consolidated entities, impairment of assets and post- retirement benefit plan amendments of €480 million. Operating income in our Core Networking segment was €479 million or 7.8% of revenues in 2013, compared with an operating income of €153 million or 2.5% of revenues in 2012. The improvement reflects higher operating income contributions from each of the divisions, particularly from IP Transport, where the continuing shift to WDM has driven improvements in margins, as well as our continuing actions to reduce fixed costs across the segment. Operating loss in our Access segment was €85 million in 2013, compared with an operating loss of €323 million in 2012. Our 61 Table of Contents 6 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Consolidated and segment results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to the year ended December 31, 2012 Fixed Access division and Managed Services activities have improved their contributions to operating income compared to the year-ago period, and we are working to improve our cost structure to achieve profitability in our Wireless Access division as part of The Shift Plan. Operating income in the Other segment was €5 million or 2.4% of revenues in 2013, compared with an income of €20 million or 10.3% of revenues in 2012. Restructuring Costs. Restructuring costs were €518 million in 2013 compared to €479 million in 2012. The cost of new restructuring plans increased in 2013 compared to 2012 due to the implementation of our Performance Program, which was launched on July 26, 2012, and The Shift Plan which was launched on June 19, 2013, and which caused severance payments, early retirement payments, costs for notice periods not worked, training costs of terminated employees, costs linked with the closure of facilities or the discontinuance of product lines and costs arising from plans that materially change the scope of business undertaken by the Group. Litigations. In 2013, we booked a litigation charge of €2 million related to the Fox River litigation and the hedging of costs associated with the FCPA litigation payment compared to 2012, when we booked a litigation credit of €2 million related to the Fox River and FCPA litigations. Gain/(loss) on disposal of consolidated entities. In 2013, we booked a gain on the disposal of consolidated entities of €2 million, compared to 2012, when we booked a gain on the disposal of consolidated entities of €11 million, mainly related to the liquidation of an Alcatel-Lucent holding company. Impairment of assets. In 2013, we booked an impairment of assets charge of €548 million, mainly related to our Wireless product division goodwill. As a result of the implementation of The Shift Plan, additional costs negatively impacted the recoverable value of our goodwill in this business. In 2012, we booked an impairment of assets charge of €894 million mainly related to (i) adjusting our assumptions about the pace of the Wavelength-Division Multiplexing (WDM) ramp-up, which was slower than anticipated, and the migration of new technologies in the then-existing Optics division and (ii) the faster-than-anticipated replacement of GSM and CDMA technologies by LTE technologies. Of the €894 million of charges in 2012: (i) €522 million were related to goodwill, of which €431 million pertained to our then-existing Optics business, (ii) €122 million related to capitalized development costs for our Wireless business, (iii) €191 million related to other intangible assets of our Wireless business and (iv) €59 million related to property, plant and equipment of the Wireless business. Post-retirement benefit plan amendments. In 2013, we booked a €135 million credit that included (i) a €55 million gain related to the change in retiree healthcare benefits for formerly represented retirees resulting from the extension of benefits until December 31, 2016 and a reduction in our obligation to pay for retirees who are subject to annual dollar caps, (ii) a €41 million gain related to the amendment of AUXAD, a French supplemental pension plan, to align it with the conditions of the French AGIRC (General Association of Pension Institutions for Managerial Staff) scheme, (iii) a €35 million gain related to an amendment of German pension plans where the traditional pension plans of most active German employees have been transferred into a new cash balance plan whose benefits are lower than in previous plans and (iv) a gain of €4 million related to the amendment of our U.S. long term disability plan, where long-term medical benefits for disabled U.S. former employees will be provided by the retiree medical plan. In 2012, we booked a total of €204 million of credits related to post-retirement benefit plan amendments, including (i) a €60 million credit related to the change in retire healthcare benefits for formerly represented retirees resulting from the extension of benefits until December 31, 2014 and the reduction of our obligation for formerly represented retirees who are subject to annual dollar caps; (ii) a €135 million credit related to the offer to deferred vested participants in the U.S. management pension and U.S. occupational inactive pension plans to receive a lump sum payment upon retirement; and (iii) a €9 million gain related to several amendments that we made to the Swiss pension plan. Income (loss) from operating activities. Income (loss) from operating activities was a loss of €739 million in 2013, compared to a loss of €1,636 million in 2012. The smaller loss from operating activities in 2013 is due to higher gross profits, lower administrative and selling expenses and research and development costs and a smaller impairment charge, partially offset by higher restructuring costs and lower contributions from post-retirement benefit plan amendments. Finance costs. Finance costs were €392 million in 2013, an increase from €279 million in 2012. The increase in finance costs was due to an increase in interest paid, from €357 million in 2012 to €462 million in 2013, and a decrease in interest earned from €78 million in 2012 to €70 million in 2013. The 2013 increase in interest paid is due to higher levels of overall debt, while the decrease in interest earned is due to lower interest rates (see Chapter 6.4 Liquidity and Capital Resources). Other financial income (loss). Other financial losses were €318 million in 2013, compared to €394 million in 2012. In 2013, other financial loss consisted primarily of (i) €134 million related to a net loss on convertible bonds and notes repurchased in 2013, (ii) a loss of €84 million related to the financial component of pension and post-retirement benefit costs, (iii) a loss of €39 million related to the change of estimated future cash flows in respect of the irrevocable commitment we made to repay in January 2014 the 7.75% convertible trust preferred securities issued by Lucent Technologies Capital Trust I, (iv) a loss of €24 million related to the amortization of outstanding costs arising from the repayment of the Alcatel-Lucent USA, Inc. U.S.$500 million asset sale facility established in 2013, (v) a net loss of €24 million on foreign exchange and (vi) a loss of €21 million related to the amortization of outstanding costs related to the repayment of the Alcatel-Lucent USA, Inc euro tranche Senior Secured Credit Facility established in 2013. In 2012, other financial losses consisted primarily of (i) a loss of €178 million related to the change of estimated future cash flows in respect of Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc.’s 2.875% Series B convertible debentures, since management anticipated that all debenture holders would exercise their right to receive payment on the June 15, 2013 optional redemption date, (ii) a loss of 62 Table of Contents OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Consolidated and segment results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to the year ended December 31, 2012 €127 million related to the financial component of pension and post-retirement benefit costs, (iii) a €27 million loss related to the repurchase of U.S. $115.5 million in nominal value of Alcatel-Lucent USA, Inc.’s 2.875% Series B convertible debentures, (iv) a loss of €28 million related to impairment losses on financial assets and (v) a net loss (taking into account hedging) of €2 million on foreign exchange transactions. Share in net income (losses) of equity affiliates. Share in net income of equity affiliates was €7 million in 2013, compared with €5 million in 2012. Income (loss) before income tax and discontinued operations. Income (loss) before income tax and discontinued operations was a loss of €1,442 million in 2013 compared to a loss of €2,304 million in 2012. Income tax (expense) benefit. We had an income tax benefit of €173 million in 2013, compared to an income tax expense of €423 million in 2012. The income tax benefit for 2013 resulted from a current income tax charge of €56 million in addition to a net deferred income tax benefit of €229 million. The €229 million net deferred income tax benefit includes: (i) €85 million in deferred tax benefits related to Alcatel-Lucent USA, Inc.’s post-retirement benefit plans, (ii) €64 million related to the reversal of deferred tax liabilities mainly related to the repayment of the Alcatel-Lucent USA, Inc. 2.875% Series A and B convertible debentures, the irrevocable commitment to repay the Lucent Technologies Capital Trust I’s 7.75% convertible trust preferred securities and the repayment of the 2015 OCEANE (iii) €58 million of other deferred income tax benefits, net, primarily related to the re-assessment of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets in the U.S. and (iv) €45 million of deferred income tax benefits related to the reversal of deferred tax liabilities accounted for in the purchase price allocation of Lucent. These benefits were slightly offset by a deferred tax charge of €(23) million related to the post-retirement benefit plan amendments we implemented in 2013. The income tax expense for 2012 resulted from a current income tax charge of €70 million in addition to a net deferred income tax expense of €353 million. The €353 million net deferred tax benefit includes: (i) €560 million of other deferred income tax expenses, net, primarily related to the re-assessment of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets in the U.S. mainly in connection with the 2012 annual impairment test of goodwill and (ii) €51 million of deferred tax expenses related to the post-retirement benefit plan amendments we implemented in 2012. These expenses were slightly offset by (i) €177 million of deferred income tax benefits related to the reversal of deferred tax liabilities accounted for in the purchase price allocation of Lucent and (ii) €80 million related to the reversal of deferred tax liabilities mainly related to the repayment of Alcatel-Lucent USA, Inc.’s 2.875% Series A convertible debentures. Income (loss) from continuing operations. We had a loss from continuing operations of €1,269 million in 2013 compared to a loss of €2,727 million in 2012. Income (loss) from discontinued operations. We had a loss from discontinued operations of €25 million in 2013 mainly related mainly related to settlements of litigations related to businesses disposed of in prior periods and a post-closing purchase price adjustment in connection with the Genesys business disposal. Income from discontinued operations was €639 million in 2012 mainly related to settlements of litigations related to businesses disposed of in prior periods and the capital gain on the disposal of our Genesys business in 2012, net of costs and tax. Non-controlling Interests. Non-controlling interests accounted for an income of €10 million in 2013, compared to a loss of €77 million in 2012. The increase from 2012 is due largely to improvements from our operations in China through Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell, Co. Ltd. and its subsidiaries. Net income (loss) attributable to equity holders of the parent. A net loss of €1,304 million was attributable to equity holders of the parent in 2013, compared to a net loss of €2,011 million in 2012. 6.4 Liquidity and capital resources Liquidity Cash flow for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 Introductory note. The figures for 2013 are re-presented to reflect the impact of the disposal of our Enterprise business as disclosed in Section 6.2 “Consolidated and segment results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013”. Overview. Cash and cash equivalents decreased €218 million in 2014 from €4,096 million as of December 31, 2013 to €3,878 million as of December 31, 2014, mainly as a result of a positive €127 million net cash generation from our operating activities, a €235 million cash generation from our investing activities and a negative overall net €1,383 million from our financing activities in connection primarily with the early repayment of our Senior Secured Credit Facilities for a total nominal value of US$1,724 million and of the Lucent Technologies Capital Trust I 7.75% convertible trust preferred securities for an amount of US$931 million, partially offset by the issuance of €1,148 million of convertible notes (OCEANE). Net cash provided (used) by operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities was €127 million in 2014 compared to net cash used of €221 million in 2013. Net cash provided by operating activities before changes in working capital, interest and taxes increased from €185 million in 2013 to €609 million for 2014. This increase was primarily due to the progress in profitability driven by an increased gross margin at 33.4% in 2014 compared to 31.3% in 2013, and cost savings, mainly in general and administrative expenses (G&A). 63 Table of Contents 6 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Liquidity and capital resources Changes in working capital had a negative impact of €164 million in 2014 on our net cash from our operating activities before interest and taxes compared to a negative impact of €33 million in 2013 due to several factors. Changes in inventories and work in progress had a less unfavorable effect on the operating cash flow of €72 million in 2014 compared to €216 million in 2013, in which year the increase of work in progress was due to our Wireless activities in connection with some major contracts, particularly in the U.S. Also, the change in trade receivables amounted to €18 million in 2014 compared to €138 million in 2013, notably driven by the increased sale of receivables without recourse, due to a major contract in the U.S. In addition, in 2014, the customer’s deposits and advances were €88 million in 2014, notably due to advances received in connection with Submarine contracts while in 2013, customers’ deposits and advances contributed negatively for €19 million. Changes in accounts payable were negative at €167 million, due to a lower level of costs incurred in 2014, compared to a positive effect of €25 million in 2013. Net interest and taxes paid amounted to €318 million in 2014 compared to €373 million in 2013. Interest paid decreased to €290 million in 2014 from €362 million in 2013 primarily due to the decrease of our gross financial debt and the refinancing of our Senior Secured Credit Facilities by convertible notes (OCEANE) bearing 0.00% and 0.125% interest rates. Net cash provided (used) by investing activities. Net cash provided by investing activities was €235 million in 2014 compared to net cash used of €1,128 million in 2013. This change was mainly due to the sale of marketable securities, which provided net cash of €617 million, compared to net cash used of € 723 million in 2013, and to cash proceeds from losing control of consolidated companies, which amounted to €84 million in 2014, compared to no cash provided in 2013, somewhat offset by the increase in capital expenditures from €463 million in 2013 to €556 million in 2014. Net cash provided (used) by financing activities. Net cash used by financing activities amounted to €1,383 million in 2014 compared to positive net cash of €2,350 million in 2013. As detailed in “Capital Resources”, below, in 2014 we issued convertible notes (OCEANE) in two tranches for an aggregate amount of €1,148 million. With the proceeds of these issuances, we repaid our remaining outstanding Senior Secured Credit Facility for a total nominal value of U.S.$1,724 million. We also repaid in 2014 (i) at the maturity date the remaining €274 million outstanding 6.375% Senior Notes, (ii) in full the outstanding principal amount of U.S.$931 million on the 7.75% Convertible Trust Preferred Securities due 2017 and (iii) an aggregate €232 million nominal amount of Senior Notes 2016. In 2013, we issued senior and convertible notes for an aggregate amount of €2,248 million, and entered into the three Senior Secured Credit Facilities. With the proceeds of these issuances and facilities, among other things, we repaid outstanding notes and other debt securities for an aggregate amount of €1,909 million. In the course of the year, we also repaid two of the Senior Secured Credit Facilities (of U.S. $500 million and €300 million nominal value). In 2013, we also issued 455 million shares, resulting in a capital increase of €957 million. The net positive effect of exchange rate changes was €633 million in 2014 compared to a negative effect of €292 million in 2013. Disposed of or discontinued operations. Cash provided by discontinued operations was €170 million in 2014 related to the disposal of our Enterprise business, compared to €14 million of cash used in 2013. Capital resources Resources. Over time, we may derive our capital resources from a variety of sources, including the generation of positive cash flow from on-going operations, proceeds from asset sales, the issuance of debt and equity in various forms and credit facilities, including our €504 million revolving credit facility which was undrawn as of December 31, 2014. Our ability to continue to draw upon these resources is dependent upon a variety of factors, including our customers’ ability to make payments on outstanding accounts receivable, who may ask for extended payment terms during the year; the perception of our credit quality by lenders and investors; the debt and equity market conditions generally, and our compliance with the terms of our debt indentures. Given current conditions, access to the debt and equity markets may not be relied upon at any given time. Also, our on-going operations did not generate positive cash flow in either 2014 or 2013. Counterbalancing this, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, including short-term investments, amounted to €5,550 million as of December 31, 2014. Although approximately €1,207 million of this cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are subject to exchange control restrictions in certain countries (primarily China) that may limit the use of such funds by our subsidiaries outside of the local jurisdiction, we do not expect that such restrictions will have an impact on our ability to meet our cash obligations. 6.375% Senior Notes due April 2014. On April 7, 2014, we repaid on the maturity date the remaining €274 million outstanding under our 6.375% Senior Notes. 8.50% Senior Notes due January 15, 2016. On June 24, 2014, we launched a tender offer to repurchase our 8.50% Senior Notes due 2016. On July 4, 2014, we accepted for purchase an aggregate nominal amount of Senior Notes 2016 of €210 million for a total cash amount of €235 million. The notes tendered in the offer were cancelled. In addition, during the second quarter of 2014, a nominal amount of €19 million of the Senior Notes 2016 was bought back and cancelled for a cash amount of €22 million. Similarly, during the fourth quarter of 2014, a €3 million nominal amount of the Senior Notes 2016 was bought back and cancelled for a cash amount of €3 million. As a result, the outstanding aggregate nominal amount of Senior Notes 2016 is €192 million as of December 31, 2014. 64 Table of Contents OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Liquidity and capital resources OCEANE 2019 and 2020. On June 10, 2014, we issued convertible/exchangeable bonds (OCEANE) in two tranches: · Tranche 1 due January 30, 2019 for a nominal value of €688 million. The conversion price per bond was set at €4.11, giving a conversion premium of approximately 40% over Alcatel Lucent’s reference share price on the regulated market Euronext in Paris. · Tranche 2 due January 30, 2020 for a nominal value of €460 million. The conversion price per bond was set at €4.02, giving a conversion premium of approximately 37% over Alcatel Lucent’s reference share price on the regulated market Euronext in Paris The bonds bear interest at an annual rate of 0.00% and 0.125% respectively, payable semi-annually in arrears on January 30th, and July 30th, commencing January 30, 2015. At our option, the bonds may be subject to early redemption under certain conditions. The proceeds of the issuance were used, together with available cash, to reimburse the 2013 Senior Secured Credit Facility (see below). The purpose of the issuance was also to contribute to the extension of debt maturity and to reduce the cost of our indebtedness. 2013 Syndicated Bank Credit Facility. On December 17, 2013, we obtained a €504 million three-year revolving credit facility with a syndicate of 12 international banks. The availability of funds under the credit facility is not dependent upon Alcatel Lucent’s credit ratings. Alcatel Lucent’s ability to draw on the credit facility is conditioned upon compliance with a financial covenant linked to the Group’s capacity to cover its interest charges. Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. and some subsidiaries of the Group have provided senior unsecured guarantees in respect of this revolving credit facility. As of the date hereof, this facility remains undrawn. 2013 Senior Secured Credit Facilities. On January 30, 2013, Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc., as borrower, and Alcatel Lucent and some subsidiaries of the Group, as guarantors, entered into senior secured credit facilities that were syndicated in January 2013 and which comprised: · An asset sale facility with a total nominal value of U.S.$500 million, with a coupon of the lower of Libor (with a 1.00% floor) plus 525 basis points, and the Alternative Base Rate (ABR) (the greatest of the Crédit Suisse Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Effective Rate plus 0.5% and one month Libor plus 1% after some adjustments) plus 425 basis points (as the borrower may choose at certain intervals), maturing in August 2016; · A credit facility with a total nominal value of U.S.$1,750 million, with a coupon of the lower of Libor (with a 1.00% floor) plus 625 basis points, and the ABR plus 525 basis points (as the borrower may choose at certain intervals), maturing in January 2019 and with a quarterly amortization of 0.25% of nominal value; and · A credit facility with a total nominal value of €300 million, with a coupon of Libor (with a 1.00% floor) plus 650 basis points, also maturing in January 2019 and with a quarterly amortization of 0.25% of nominal value. We repaid the asset sale facility in full and terminated it on August 7, 2013. On August 16, 2013, Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. entered into an amendment to the Credit Agreement, which had the effect of changing certain covenants governing the facilities outstanding at the time, in particular those restricting asset sales or dealing with mandatory repayment in case of asset sales, and lowered the credit spread on the U.S.$1,750 million Senior Secured Credit Facility from 6.25% to 4.75% and the credit spread on the €300 million Senior Secured Credit Facility from 6.50% to 5.25%. We repaid the credit facility with a total nominal value of €300 million due January 2019 in full on December 6, 2013. On December 20, 2013, Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. entered into an amendment to the Credit Agreement, which had the effect as of February 18, 2014, of lowering the credit spread from 4.75% to 3.50%. In addition, under the terms of this amendment, if, prior to August 18, 2014, all or part of the Senior Secured Credit Facility was voluntarily repaid with (a) cash from a loan financing, the primary purpose of which was to decrease the yield of such Facility, or (b) cash from the issuance of notes or convertible debt, then such repayment had to be made at 101.0% of the principal amount repaid. The Senior Secured Credit Facility was otherwise repayable at par at any time. On August 19, 2014, we repaid the remaining U.S. $1,724 million outstanding under the U.S. $1,750 million Senior Secured Credit Facility due January 2019, using the proceeds of the issuance of the OCEANE 2019 and 2020, together with available cash (see “OCEANE 2019 – 2020” above). The Senior Secured Credit Facilities were secured by a first-priority pledge of (i) the equity interests held by Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc., Alcatel-Lucent Holdings Inc. and the other guarantors in most of their subsidiaries (ii) substantially all patents and other intellectual property rights of Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc., Alcatel Lucent and the other guarantors, (iii) substantially all intercompany loans due to Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc., Alcatel-Lucent Holdings Inc. and the other guarantors, and (iv) substantially all other tangible and intangible personal property of Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. and the U.S. guarantors. As of August 19, 2014, the 2013 Senior Secured Credit Facilities were all fully repaid, allowing the release of all the pledges securing these facilities. 65 Table of Contents 6 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Liquidity and capital resources 4.625% Senior Notes due July 1, 2017. In December 2013, Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. issued Senior Notes due July 1, 2017 with a 4.625% coupon for a total nominal value of U.S.$650 million. In January 2014, we used the net proceeds of this issuance, together with available cash, to repay in full the U.S.$931 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of the 7.75% Convertible Trust Preferred Securities due 2017 issued by Lucent Technologies Capital Trust I. Alcatel Lucent and some subsidiaries of the Group have provided senior unsecured guarantees of these Senior Notes. At the option of Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc., the notes may be subject to early redemption under certain conditions. Covenants similar to those included in the indenture for the 8.50% Senior Notes due January 15, 2016 issued by Alcatel Lucent apply to these notes. Such covenants include restricting, among other things, the Group’s ability to: (i) incur or guarantee additional debt or issue preferred stock; (ii) pay dividends, buy back equity and make investments in minority interests, (iii) create or incur certain liens and (iv) engage in mergers, consolidations or asset sales. These covenants, which are customary in the issuance of high yield bonds, are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions. Those qualifications and exceptions generally afford the Group the ability to conduct its operations, strategy and finances without significant effect. The notes also provide that, if certain instances of change of control occur, we are required to offer to repurchase all of the notes at a redemption price equal to 101% of their principal amount, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. Additionally, the notes may be redeemed upon the occurrence of certain changes in applicable tax law at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. 6.75% Senior Notes due November 15, 2020. In November 2013, Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. issued Senior Notes due November 15, 2020 with a 6.75% coupon for a total nominal value of U.S.$1,000 million. The net proceeds of this issuance were used (i) to redeem the U.S.$96 million aggregate principal amount of Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc.’s 2.875% Series A Convertible Bonds due 2023 and the 2.875% Series B Convertible Bonds due 2025, and the €11 million principal amount of Alcatel Lucent’s 5.00% OCEANE (convertible/exchangeable bonds) due 2015; (ii) to prefund the repayment at its maturity date of €274 million principal amount of Alcatel Lucent’s 6.375% Senior Notes due in April 2014, (iii) to repay the €300 million Senior Secured Credit Facility due 2019 (see “2013 Senior Secured Credit Facilities”), and (iv) for general corporate purposes. Alcatel Lucent and some subsidiaries of the Group have provided senior unsecured guarantees of these Senior Notes. At the option of Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc., the notes may be subject to early redemption under certain conditions. Covenants similar to those included in the indenture for the 8.50% Senior Notes due January 15, 2016 issued by Alcatel Lucent apply to these notes (see “4.625% Senior Notes due July 1, 2017”). The notes also provide that, if certain instances of change of control occur, we are required to offer to repurchase all of the notes at a redemption price equal to 101% of their principal amount, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. Additionally, the notes may be redeemed upon the occurrence of certain changes in applicable tax law at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Credit ratings As at March 19, 2015, Alcatel Lucent credit ratings were as follows: Rating Agency Corporate family rating Long-term debt Short-term debt Outlook Last update of CFR/Debt rating Last update of the outlook Moody’s B3 B3/Caa1 (1) Not Prime Positive Dec 4, 2012/ Dec 19, 2013 Nov 17, 2014 Standard & Poor’s B B B Stable Aug 18, 2014 Aug 18, 2014 (1) The OCEANE 2018, as well as the OCEANE 2019 and 2020 are rated Caa1; all other long-term debt issued by Alcatel Lucent is rated B3. At March 19, 2015, the credit ratings of Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. were as follows: Rating Agency Corporate family rating Long-term debt Short-term debt Outlook Last update of CFR/Debt rating Last update of the outlook Moody’s n.a. B3 (1) n.a. Positive Dec 12, 2013 Nov 17, 2014 Standard & Poor’s B B n.a. Stable Aug 18, 2014 Aug 18, 2014 (1) The 8.875% Senior Notes, the 6.75% Senior Notes and the 4.625% Senior Notes are each rated B3. Ratings were withdrawn on January 20, 2012 for the Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. 6.50% Notes due 2028 and 6.45% Notes due 2029. 66 Table of Contents OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Liquidity and capital resources Moody’s: On November 17, 2014, Moody’s changed the outlook on Alcatel Lucent and Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. to positive from stable, and affirmed the B3 ratings. On December 19, 2013, Moody’s upgraded the rating of the 8.50% Senior Notes due 2016 issued by Alcatel Lucent from Caa1 to B3. On November 7, 2013, Moody’s changed the outlook on Alcatel Lucent’s Corporate Family B3 rating from Negative to Stable, and affirmed the existing ratings of the Group’s debt. On August 23, 2013, Moody’s assigned a definitive B3 rating to the 8.875% Senior Notes due 2020 issued by Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. and affirmed Alcatel Lucent’s B3 Corporate Family Rating. On June 26, 2013. Moody’s assigned a provisional Caa1 rating to the OCEANE due 2018 issued by Alcatel Lucent and converted the provisional B1 rating of the three Senior Secured Credit Facilities into a definitive B1 rating. The rating grid of Moody’s ranges from Aaa, which is the highest rated class, to C, which is the lowest rated class. Alcatel Lucent’s Corporate Family rating, the Alcatel Lucent long term debt (except the OCEANE 2018, 2019 and 2020), and the Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. rated long term debt, are rated B3, in the B category, which also includes B1 and B2 ratings. Moody’s gives the following definition of its B category: “obligations rated B are considered speculative and are subject to high credit risk”. Alcatel Lucent’s OCEANE 2018, 2019 and 2020 are rated Caa1, in the Caa category, which Moody’s characterizes as follows: “obligations rated Caa are judged to be speculative of poor standing and are subject to very high risk”. Standard & Poor’s: On August 18, 2014, Standard & Poor’s raised its corporate credit ratings on Alcatel Lucent and Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. from B- to B. The unsecured bonds issued by the Group were also upgraded, from CCC+/B- to B. At the same date, and as a consequence of the rating upgrade, the Outlook was changed from Positive to Stable. On June 2, 2014, Standard & Poor’s assigned the rating B- to the OCEANE 2019 and 2020 that were to be issued. On November 7, 2013, Standard & Poor’s revised its outlook on Alcatel Lucent and on Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. from Stable to Positive, and affirmed its B- Corporate Credit rating on both companies. On November 7, 2013, Standard & Poor’s also affirmed the B short term rating on Alcatel Lucent. On September 3, 2013, Standard & Poor’s raised to CCC+ from CCC the ratings of the senior unsecured notes issued by Alcatel Lucent and by Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. On June 26, 2013, Standard & Poor’s assigned the credit rating CCC to the OCEANE 2018 issued by Alcatel Lucent on that date. On June 21, 2013, Standard & Poor’s lowered the long-term corporate credit ratings of Alcatel Lucent and Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc from B to B- with a stable outlook. Standard & Poor’s affirmed the B short-term ranking of Alcatel Lucent, and lowered the rating on the Senior Secured Credit Facilities from BB- to B+, as well as the rating of the Group long-term unsecured debt from CCC+ to CCC. The rating of the trust preferred securities issued by Lucent Technologies Capital Trust I was lowered from CCC to CCC-. On February 18, 2013, Standard & Poor’s affirmed its B long-term credit ratings of Alcatel Lucent and Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. and removed them from Credit Watch with Negative implications. The outlook was negative. At the same time, the BB- issue rating on the Senior Secured Credit Facilities was affirmed. The other ratings were also affirmed. The rating grid of Standard & Poor’s ranges from AAA (the strongest rating) to D (the weakest rating). Alcatel Lucent’s and Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc.’s Corporate Family Rating, as well as their long term debt are rated B, which is in the B category. Standard & Poor’s gives the following definition to the B category: “An obligation rated “B” is more vulnerable to non-payment than obligations rated “BB” but the obligor currently has the capacity to meet its financial commitment on the obligation. Adverse business, financial or economic conditions will likely impair the obligor’s capacity or willingness to meet its financial commitment on the obligation.” Short-term cash requirements. Our short-term cash requirements are primarily related to funding our operations, including our restructuring plans, capital expenditures and short-term debt repayments. Restructuring plans. Through the launch of The Shift Plan, we aim at reducing our fixed-cost base by €950 million in 2015 compared to our 2012 cost base through the adoption of direct-channel operations, additional consolidation of SG&A (selling, general and administrative) functions, and by refocusing our R&D capacity. For the year ended December 31, 2014, we had expensed €238 million of restructuring costs for these actions. We expect that the cumulative amount of cash outlays pursuant to The Shift Plan should be approximately €1.7 billion, of which approximately €1.5 billion between 2013 and 2015, with the remainder in 2016. Short-term debt. As of December 31, 2014, we had €402 million of short-term financial debt outstanding. 67 Table of Contents 6 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Liquidity and capital resources Cash flow outlook. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, including short-term investments, aggregating €5,550 million as of December 31, 2014, are sufficient to fund our cash requirements for the next 12 months and to pursue our capital expenditures program as planned. To the extent that the business environment materially deteriorates or our customers reduce their spending plans, or if the credit markets were to limit our access to bid and performance bonds, with a resulting deterioration of our liquidity, we will need to re-evaluate our capital expenditure priorities appropriately. We may also be required to engage in additional restructuring efforts and seek additional sources of capital, which may be difficult under such circumstance. Long-term debt and total financial debt. As of December 31, 2014, we had €4,875 million of long-term financial debt outstanding and therefore a total gross financial debt at that date of €5,277 million, compared to €6,162 million as of December 31, 2013. Rating clauses affecting our debt Alcatel Lucent and Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc.’s outstanding notes and convertible debentures do not contain clauses that could trigger an accelerated repayment in the event of a lowering of their respective credit ratings. 6.5 Contractual obligations and off-balance sheet contingent commitments Contractual obligations We have certain contractual obligations that extend beyond 2014. Among these obligations, we have long-term debt and interest thereon, finance leases, operating leases, commitments to purchase fixed assets and other unconditional purchase obligations. Our total contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2014 for these items are presented below based upon the minimum payments we will have to make in the future under such contracts and firm commitments. Amounts related to financial debt, finance lease obligations and the equity component of our convertible bonds are fully reflected in our consolidated statement of financial position included in this annual report. (In millions of euros) Payment deadline Contractual payment obligations Before December 31, 2015 2016-2017 2018-2019 2020 and after Total Financial debt (excluding finance leases) 397 875 1,143 2,847 5,262 Finance lease obligations 9 9 - - 18 Equity component of convertible bonds - - 192 88 280 Sub-total - included in statement of financial position 406 884 1,335 2,935 5,560 Finance costs on financial debt 231 409 339 125 1,104 Operating leases 165 237 158 180 740 Commitments to purchase fixed assets 35 - - - 35 Unconditional purchase obligations (1) 925 731 534 127 2,317 Sub-total - commitments not included in statement of financial position 1,356 1,377 1,031 432 4,196 TOTAL CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS (2) 1,762 2,261 2,366 3,367 9,756 (1) Of which €594 million relate to commitments made to HP pursuant to the sales cooperation agreement and the IT outsourcing transaction entered into with HP and €635 million relate to commitments made to Accenture as part of several outsourcing transactions mentioned below. Other unconditional purchase obligations result mainly from obligations under multi-year supply contracts linked to the sale of businesses to third parties. (2) Obligations related to pensions, post-retirement health and welfare benefits and post-employment benefit obligations are excluded from the table (refer to Note 23 to our consolidated financial statements). 68 Table of Contents OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Contractual obligations and off-balance sheet contingent commitments Off-balance sheet commitments On December 31, 2014, our off-balance sheet commitments and contingencies amounted to €2,376 million, consisting primarily of €1,637 million in guarantees on long-term contracts for the supply of telecommunications equipment and services by our consolidated and non-consolidated subsidiaries. Generally, we provide these guarantees to back performance bonds issued to customers through financial institutions. These performance bonds and counter-guarantees are standard industry practice and are routinely provided in long-term supply contracts. If certain events occur subsequent to our including these commitments within our off-balance sheet contingencies, such as delays in promised delivery or claims related to an alleged failure by us to perform on our long-term contracts, or the failure by one of our customers to meet its payment obligations, we reserve the estimated risk on our consolidated statement of financial position under the line items “Provisions” or “Amounts due to/from our customers on construction contracts,” or in inventory reserves. Not included in the €2,376 million is approximately €185 million in customer financing commitment provided by us. With respect to guarantees given for contract performance, only those issued by us to back guarantees granted by financial institutions are presented in the table below. Off-balance sheet contingent commitments given in the normal course of business are as follows: (In millions of euros) 2014 2013 2012 Guarantees given on contracts made by the Group 1,637 1,180 1,217 Discounted notes receivable with recourse (1) - - 1 Other contingent commitments (2) 737 671 716 Sub-total - contingent commitments 2,374 1,851 1,934 Secured borrowings (3) 2 8 4 TOTAL (4) 2,376 1,859 1,938 (1) Amounts reported in this line item are related to discounting of receivables with recourse only. Total amounts of receivables discounted without recourse are disclosed in Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements. (2) Excluding the guarantee given to Louis Dreyfus Armateurs described below. (3) Excluding the subordinated guarantees described below on certain bonds. (4) Obligations related to pensions, post-retirement health and welfare benefits and post-employment benefit obligations are excluded from the table. Refer to Note 23 to our consolidated financial statements for a summary of our expected contributions to these plans. The amounts of guarantees given on contracts reflected in the preceding tables represent the maximum potential amounts of future payments (undiscounted) that the Group could be required to make under current guarantees granted by the Group. The maximum potential amount reflects the undiscounted reliable best estimate of the highest payment that could effectively be made, even if the likelihood of occurrence of such payment is remote, and without taking into account any reduction related to potential recovery through recourse or collateralization provisions. If such a reliable best estimate is not available, the amount disclosed is the maximum amount the Group could be required to pay, with all the other characteristics remaining the same. In addition, most of the parent company guarantees and performance bonds given to our customers are insured; therefore, the estimated exposure related to the guarantees set forth in the preceding table may be reduced by insurance proceeds that we may receive in case of a claim. Commitments related to product warranties and pension and post-retirement benefits are not included in the preceding table. These commitments are fully reflected in our 2014 consolidated financial statements. Contingent liabilities arising out of litigation, arbitration or regulatory actions are not included in the preceding table either, with the exception of those linked to the guarantees given on our long-term contracts. Commitments related to contracts that have been cancelled or interrupted due to the default or bankruptcy of the customer are included in the above-mentioned “Guarantees given on contracts made by the Group” as long as the legal release of the guarantee has not been obtained. For more information concerning contingencies, see Note 31 to our consolidated financial statements. Guarantees given on third-party long-term contracts could require us to make payments to the guaranteed party based on a non-consolidated company’s failure to perform under an agreement. The fair value of these contingent liabilities, corresponding to the premium to be received by the guarantor for issuing the guarantee, was nil as of December 31, 2014 (nil as of December 31, 2013 and as of December 31, 2012). Outsourcing transactions Outsourcing transaction with Accenture On February 28, 2014, in conjunction with the targeted cost savings of The Shift Plan, we entered into a 7-year Service Implementation Agreement with Accenture regarding the business transformation of our finance function, including the outsourcing of our accounting function. This agreement supplements two similar service agreements regarding human resources and information technology. Each of the three corporate functions covered by our agreements with Accenture is called a “tower”. The Accenture agreements are expected to generate cost savings over the contract period, and cover: data processing services (back office) in finance, accounting and 69 Table of Contents 6 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Contractual obligations and off-balance sheet contingent commitments human resources, as well as IT services, support and maintenance of IT applications in the countries in which we operate. As part of an initial two-year transition and transformation phase, we are committed to restructuring each of the three towers, which is estimated to cost €49 million. €38 million of these restructuring costs were incurred during 2014. Overall, we are committed to purchase approximately €757 million of Accenture goods and services until 2020. As of December 31, 2014, the remaining total purchase commitment was €635 million. This commitment is included in the contractual payment obligations table above in the line “Unconditional purchase obligations” for the remaining balance as of December 31, 2014. Outsourcing transaction with HCL Technologies On July 1, 2014, in conjunction with the targeted cost savings of The Shift Plan, we entered into a 7-year Master Service Agreement with HCL Technologies Limited regarding the transfer of a part of our R&D department for certain legacy technologies. This contract is expected to generate cost savings over the contract period, and covers: R&D development and maintenance, and human resources. As part of an initial three year transition and transformation phase, we are committed to restructuring those activities, which is estimated to cost €40 million. Overall, we are committed to purchase approximately €297 million of HCL services until 2021. As of December 31, 2014, the remaining total purchase commitment was €273 million. This commitment is included in the contractual payment obligations table above in the line “Unconditional purchase obligations” for the remaining balance as of December 31, 2014. Outsourcing transaction with Hewlett Packard On October 29, 2009, we entered into a major IT outsourcing transaction with Hewlett Packard Company (HP), with an effective date of December 1, 2009, and at the same time we entered into a ten-year sales cooperation agreement with HP. The IT outsourcing transaction provides for HP to transform and manage a large part of our IT infrastructure. As part of an initial 18-month transition and transformation phase (referred to as the “T&T phase”), HP invested its own resources to transform our global IT/IS platforms. As a result, we are committed to restructuring our IT/IS operations, which is estimated to cost €200 million over ten years. These restructuring costs, which include severance costs and the costs of transferring certain legal entities and resources to HP, are recognized as incurred, starting in 2010. €8 million of these restructuring costs were incurred during 2014 (€94 million in 2013 and €31 million in 2011). In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2011 we signed an amendment with HP relating to a supplemental €42 million of T&T costs to be incurred by us. €10 million of these supplemental costs were incurred during 2014 (€10 million in 2013 and €6 million in 2012). As part of the transfer of resources, in 2010 we sold to HP IT infrastructure assets under a sale and finance leaseback arrangement, the payment obligations for which are included in “Finance lease obligations” in the contractual payments obligations table above, representing a €3 million finance lease obligation as of December 31, 2014 (€10 million as of December 31, 2013 and €10 million as of December 31, 2012). Also as part of the overall arrangement with HP, we committed to purchase approximately €514 million of HP goods and services (this amount increased by €62 million as of 2011 because the duration of the commitment increased by one year, until 2014). Of the total amount of approximately €514 million in purchase commitment, €311 million represent our commitment to effect annual purchases over the five-year period from January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2014 in an annual amount equal to €62 million, which is the annual amount we spent for HP goods and services from November 1, 2008 through October 31, 2009, and €202 million represent our commitment to effect incremental purchases over the same five-year period of HP goods and services to be used in the context of customer networks. As of December 31, 2014, our remaining total purchase commitment was €0 million (€104 million as of December 31, 2013 and €226 million as of December 31, 2012). The finance lease obligations and the unconditional purchase commitments related to the HP outsourcing transaction are included in the contractual payment obligations table presented above, in the lines “Finance lease obligations” and “Unconditional purchase obligations”. The two following commitments were included in the HP agreement: · a minimum value commitment regarding the amount of IT managed services to be purchased or procured by us from HP and/or any HP affiliates over ten years, for a total amount of €1,408 million (which amount includes €120 million of the €200 million restructuring costs mentioned above) and with a remaining commitment of €519 million as of December 31, 2014 (€644 million as of December 31, 2013 and € 778 million as of December 31, 2012); and · a commitment to make certain commercial efforts related to the development of sales pursuant to the sales cooperation agreement, including through the establishment of dedicated teams, representing a minimum investment of €298 million over ten years (with a remaining commitment of €75 million as of December 31, 2014 (€90 million as of December 31, 2013 and €105 million as of December 31, 2012)). These two commitments are included in the contractual payment obligations table above in the line “Unconditional purchase obligations” for the remaining balance as of December 31, 2014. Other Commitments - Contract Manufacturers / Electronic Manufacturing Services (EMS) providers We outsource a significant amount of manufacturing activity to a limited number of electronic manufacturing service (EMS) providers. The EMSs manufacture products using Alcatel-Lucent’s design specifications and they test platforms in line with quality assurance programs and standards established by Alcatel-Lucent. EMSs are required to procure components and sub-assemblies that are used to manufacture products based on our demand forecasts from suppliers in our approved supplier lists. 70 Table of Contents OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Contractual obligations and off-balance sheet contingent commitments Generally, we do not own the components and sub-assemblies purchased by the EMS and title to the products is generally transferred from the EMS providers to us upon delivery. We record the inventory purchases upon transfer of title from the EMS to us. We establish provisions for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical trends and future expected demand. This analysis includes excess and obsolete inventory owned by EMSs that is manufactured on our behalf, and excess and obsolete inventory that will result from non-cancellable, non-returnable (NCNR) component and sub-assembly orders that the EMSs have with their suppliers for parts meant to be integrated into our products. In 2014, we recorded a charge of €32 million for excess inventory commitments with our EMS providers compared to a charge of €26 million in 2013 (and a charge of €25 million in 2012). We generally do not have minimum purchase obligations in our contract-manufacturing relationships with EMS providers and therefore the contractual payment obligations table presented above under the heading “Contractual Obligations” does not include any commitments related to EMS providers. Letter of Indemnity in favor of Louis Dreyfus Armateurs During the first half of 2011, we provided a letter of Indemnity (LOI) in favor of Louis Dreyfus Armateurs (LDA), our former co-venturer in Alda Marine, an entity we controlled jointly with LDA until March 18, 2015, pursuant to which we agreed to indemnify LDA in respect of any losses arising out of exposure of crews to radiation from the nuclear power plant at Fukushima, in connection with the repairs conducted by Alcatel-Lucent during the second quarter of 2011 on a submarine cable system, which required the use of vessels managed by LDA. Our aggregate potential liability under this LOI may not exceed €50 million, as increased annually by the lower of (i) 5% and (ii) the percentage rate of revaluation of crew salaries awarded by LDA. This LOI expires on April 15, 2081. As the levels of radiation measured during the repairs were always below the critical level as defined by the IRSN (Institut de Radioprotection et de Sûreté Nucléaire), the risk of payment pursuant to the indemnity is considered remote as of December 31, 2014. Specific commitments - Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc.’s separation agreements Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. is party to various agreements that were entered into in connection with the separation of Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. and former affiliates, including AT&T, Avaya, LSI Corporation (formerly Agere Systems, before its merger with LSI corporation in April 2007) and NCR Corporation. Pursuant to these agreements, Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. and the former affiliates agreed to allocate certain liabilities related to each other’s business, and have agreed to share liabilities based on certain allocations and thresholds. Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. has a provision of €6 million as of December 31, 2014 for a claim asserted by NCR Corporation relating to NCR Corporation’s liabilities for the environmental clean-up of the Fox River in Wisconsin, USA. Future developments in connection with the Fox River claim may warrant additional adjustments of existing provisions. We are not aware of any material liabilities to Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc.’s former affiliates as a result of the separation agreements that are not otherwise reflected in the 2014 consolidated financial statements. Nevertheless, it is possible that potential liabilities for which the former affiliates bear primary responsibility may lead to contributions by Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. beyond amounts currently reserved. Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc.’s guarantees and indemnification agreements Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. divested certain businesses and assets through sales to third-party purchasers and spin-offs to the other common shareowners of the businesses spun off. In connection with these transactions, certain direct or indirect indemnifications were provided to the buyers or other third parties doing business with the divested entities. These indemnifications include secondary liability for certain leases of real property and equipment assigned to the divested entity and specific indemnifications for certain legal and environmental contingencies, as well as vendor supply commitments. The durations of such indemnifications vary but are standard for transactions of this nature. Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. remains secondarily liable for approximately U.S.$7 million of lease obligations as of December 31, 2014 (U.S.$23 million of lease obligations as of December 31, 2013 and U.S.$ 47 million of lease obligations as of December 31, 2012), that were assigned to Avaya, LSI Corporation and purchasers of other businesses that were divested. The remaining terms of these assigned leases and the corresponding guarantees range from one month to eight years. The primary obligor of the assigned leases may terminate or restructure the lease before its original maturity and thereby relieve Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. of its secondary liability. Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. generally has the right to receive indemnity or reimbursement from the assignees and we have not reserved for losses on this form of guarantee. Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. is party to a tax-sharing agreement to indemnify AT&T and is liable for tax adjustments that are attributable to its lines of business, as well as a portion of certain other shared tax adjustments, during the years prior to its separation from AT&T. Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. has similar agreements with Avaya and LSI Corporation. Certain proposed or assessed tax adjustments are subject to these tax-sharing agreements. We do not expect that the outcome of these other matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, consolidated financial position or near-term liquidity. Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc.’s guarantees of Alcatel-Lucent notes and revolving credit facilities The guaranty linked to the 6.375% notes has been released as part of the full repayment of these notes in April 2014. On November 15, 2013, Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc., as well as other subsidiaries of Alcatel Lucent, issued a full and unconditional guaranty of Alcatel-Lucent’s 8.50% Senior Notes due 2016 (the 71 Table of Contents 6 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Contractual obligations and off-balance sheet contingent commitments principal amount of which was €192 million on December 31, 2014). The guaranty is given on a senior unsecured basis and will rank pari passu in right of payment with all existing and future senior indebtedness of Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. and senior in right of payment to all its existing and future indebtedness that is by its terms expressly subordinated to the guaranty. The guaranty will be effectively subordinated in right of payment to all debt secured by the assets of Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. On December 17, 2013, Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc., as well as other subsidiaries of Alcatel Lucent, issued a full and unconditional guaranty of Alcatel-Lucent’s €504 million Revolving Credit Facility (which was undrawn on December 31, 2014). The guaranty is given on a senior unsecured basis and will rank pari passu in right of payment with all existing and future senior indebtedness of Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. and senior in right of payment to all its existing and future indebtedness that is by its terms expressly subordinated to the guaranty should the Revolving Credit Facility be drawn. The guaranty will be effectively subordinated in right of payment to all debt secured by the assets of Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. Alcatel-Lucent’s guarantees of Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc.’s Senior Notes Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. issued (i) in August 2013 8.875% Senior Notes due January 1, 2020 (the principal amount of which was €412 million on December 31, 2014), (ii) in November 2013 6.750% Senior Notes due November 15, 2020 (the principal amount of which was €824 million on December 31, 2014) and (iii) in December 2013, 4.625% Senior Notes due July 1, 2017 (the principal amount of which was €535 million on December 31, 2014). These Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by Alcatel-Lucent and other subsidiaries of Alcatel-Lucent. Alcatel-Lucent’s guaranty will rank pari passu in right of payment with all existing and future senior indebtedness of Alcatel-Lucent and senior in right of payment to all its existing and future indebtedness that is by its terms expressly subordinated to the guaranty. The guaranty will be effectively subordinated in right of payment to all debt secured by the assets of Alcatel-Lucent. Customer financing Based on standard industry practice, from time to time we extend financing to our customers by granting extended payment terms, making direct loans, and providing guarantees to third-party financing sources. More generally, as part of our business, we routinely enter into long-term contracts involving significant amounts to be paid by our customers over time. As of December 31, 2014, net of reserves, we had an exposure of approximately €79 million under drawn customer-financing arrangements, representing approximately €72 million of deferred payments and loans, and €7 million of guarantees. In addition, as of December 31, 2014, we had further commitments to provide customer financing for approximately €94 million. It is possible that these further commitments will expire without our having to actually provide the committed financing. Outstanding customer financing and undrawn commitments are monitored by assessing, among other things, each customer’s short-term and long-term liquidity positions, the customer’s current operating performance versus plan, the execution challenges faced by the customer, changes in the competitive landscape, and the customer’s management experience and depth. When we detect potential problems, we take mitigating actions, which may include the cancellation of undrawn commitments. Although by taking such actions we may be able to limit the total amount of our exposure, we still may suffer losses to the extent of the drawn and guaranteed amounts. Capital expenditures Each year we incur a certain level of capital expenditures in maintenance and innovation. In 2014, our capital expenditures amounted to €556 million, including €162 million of capitalization of development costs. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and funding arrangements provide us with adequate flexibility to pursue our capital expenditure program as planned. To the extent that the business environment materially deteriorates or our customers reduce their spending plans, we will need to reevaluate our capital expenditure priorities appropriately. As of December 31, 2014, our contractual obligations for capital expenditures amounted to €35 million. 6.6 Strategy and Outlook On June 19, 2013 we announced The Shift Plan, which is a detailed three-year industrial program to reposition our company as a specialist provider of IP and Cloud Networking and Ultra-Broadband Access, which are the high-value equipment and services that are essential to high-performance networks. Successful implementation of The Shift Plan will give our customers renewed confidence in our long-term stability, enhance our employees’ commitment to the Group and provide us with the ability to negotiate improved terms when we access the capital markets. The first phase of The Shift Plan was structured around three priorities: refocusing, restructuring and refinancing; which allowed us to reposition our company from a telecommunications generalist to a specialist, with better-aligned management, a sound financial foundation, a stronger focus on innovation and significant growth prospects. The second chapter 72 Table of Contents OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Strategy and Outlook of The Shift Plan is articulated around three complementary pillars: innovate, transform and grow; which we believe will allow us to capitalize on new market opportunities ahead. Our transformation has commercial traction across our portfolio in key technologies such as core routing, 100G optics, SDN, NFV, 4G LTE, small cells and next-gen fixed access. This traction has been enriched by: · Innovations across a number of important areas of our business, including Core Routing and SDN within IP Routing, 400G in IP Transport, virtualization in IP Platforms, carrier aggregation and Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service (eMBMS) in Wireless and G.fast and NG-PON2 in Fixed Access; and · Technological partnerships, including with Qualcomm on small cells, with Intel on virtualization of network functions and with Accenture around ultra broadband opportunities. The main elements of The Shift Plan and an update as of December 31, 2014 include: · Investing in our Core Networking businesses (which include IP Routing, IP Transport, IP Platforms and associated services). We are expecting that these businesses will be our growth engines in the future. We aim to generate revenues at or above €7 billion from our Core Networking segment in 2015, and to improve Core Networking segment’s contribution to our segment operating margin to at or above 12.5% in 2015. We define segment operating margin as income (loss) from operating activities before restructuring costs, litigations, gain/loss on disposal of consolidated entities, impairment of assets and post-retirement benefit plan amendments (excluding the negative non-cash impacts of Lucent’s purchase price allocation) divided by revenues. In 2014, Core Networking segment operating margin was 10.6%, an increase of 280 basis points compared to 2013. We are also seeking to increase our research and development investment in our Core Networking business by 8% by the end of 2015, as compared to 2012 and targeting a reduction in our selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) in order to achieve a level of SG&A to revenue of approximately 13%. In 2014, the level of SG&A to revenues was 13% compared to 15% in 2013; · Increasing segment operating cash flow from our Access segment. We defined segment operating cash flow as income (loss) from operating activities before restructuring costs, litigations, gain/loss on disposal of consolidated entities, impairment of assets and post-retirement benefit plan amendments (excluding the negative non-cash impacts of Lucent’s purchase price allocation) plus the change in operating working capital (as defined in Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements). Our objective is to generate operating cash flow from the Access segment at or above €200 million in 2015 (We had previously set a target of €250 million which we have adjusted to take into account the sale of the Enterprise business and LGS Innovations in 2014). In 2014, operating cash flow for the Access segment was €48 million, which represented an increase of €185 million compared to 2013, stemming primarily from improved profitability as well as improved operating working capital. We are managing these businesses by stabilizing our wireless business, building on our leadership position in fixed access, restructuring our managed services business and unlocking value from patent licensing. We are reducing our investment in legacy research and development and streamlining our SG&A expenses in order to lower operating expenses for the Access segment by 25% in 2015 as compared to 2012. · Market diversification: successful implementation of The Shift Plan will enable us to improve the way we access the market, resulting in a business that is better leveraged, by addressing new customers including cable operators, webscale and large technology enterprises. Furthermore, market diversification has led us to redesign our sales and marketing strategy to leverage our new focused product and services portfolio and help us to identify new market segments such as data centers. In 2014, approximately 8% of our revenues were with non-telecommunications customers; · Rightsizing of the cost structure: successful implementation of The Shift Plan should enable us to achieve €950 million of fixed cost savings in 2015 compared to our 2012 cost base at constant exchange rates (we had previously set a target of €1 billion which we have adjusted to take into account the sale of the Enterprise business and LGS Innovations in 2014), by significantly reducing SG&A expenses, optimizing research and development investments, refocusing and unlocking innovation, implementing delivery and supply chain/manufacturing efficiencies and reducing product complexity while improving quality. As of December 31, 2014, €675 million of fixed cost savings had been generated compared to our 2012 base, of which €340 million has been generated in 2014, and €335 million in 2013; · Generating cash from dispositions: we are aiming to generate at least €1 billion of cash over the 2013-2015 period through asset dispositions. As of the date of this filing, we have announced the following closed disposals: – the sale of LGS Innovations Inc., our Government business, to a U.S.-based company owned by a Madison Dearborn Partners-led investor group that includes CoVant which was completed on March 31, 2014, – the sale of 85% of Alcatel-Lucent Enterprise to China Huaxin, a technology investment company, – the sale of our cyber-security services & solutions and the communications security business to Thales; On July 31, 2014, we also announced our intent to explore the capital opening of our subsidiary Alcatel-Lucent Submarine Networks (ASN) through an IPO, in order to finance the reinforcement of its leadership in telecom submarine systems and its diversification into the Oil & Gas market, to increase its visibility and to optimize capital allocation. Alcatel-Lucent will retain the majority of the ownership. Subject to market conditions, this capital opening is targeted to take place in the second half of 2015. In the meantime, on March 18, 2015, in order to streamline its operations, ASN took full ownership of the marine assets that were previously shared in a JV with Louis Dreyfus Armateurs (see Section 4.2 « History and development », sub-section « Recent events »). 73 Table of Contents 6 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Strategy and Outlook · Self-funded plan and financial sustainability: We completed The Shift Plan’s goal to strengthen our balance sheet from 2013 through 2015 through €2 billion of debt management transactions. The Group took advantage of favorable capital markets conditions and extended the average maturity of our debt. Our goal of reducing our overall debt by €2 billion is more than halfway complete following the raising of €957 million in December 2013 through a capital increase and the conversion of the outstanding €48 million of OCEANE 2015 in December 2013. 6.7 Qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risks Financial instruments We enter into derivative financial instruments primarily to manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Our policy is not to take speculative positions. Our strategies to reduce exchange and interest rate risk have served to mitigate, but not eliminate, the positive or negative impact of exchange and interest rate fluctuations. Derivative financial instruments held by us at December 31, 2014 were mostly hedges of existing or future financial or commercial transactions or were related to issued debt. The largest portion of our issued debt is in euro and U.S. dollar. We use cross-currency interest rate derivatives to convert a part of our U.S. dollar fixed rate debt into euro fixed rate debt in order to cover the currency risk. Counterparty risk For our marketable securities, cash, cash equivalents and financial derivative instruments, we are exposed to credit risk if a counterparty defaults on its financial commitments to us. This risk is monitored daily, with strict limits based on the counterparties’ rating. All of our counterparties were classified in the investment grade category as of December 31, 2014. The exposure of each market counterparty is calculated taking into account the fair value of the underlying market instruments. Foreign currency risk Since we conduct commercial and industrial operations throughout the world, we are exposed to foreign currency risk. We use derivative financial instruments to protect ourselves against fluctuations of foreign currencies which have an impact on our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Future transactions mainly relate to firm commercial contracts and forecasted transactions. Firm commercial contracts and forecasted transactions are hedged by forward foreign exchange transactions. The duration of future transactions that are not firmly committed does not usually exceed 18 months. Interest rate risk on financial debt, net In the event of an interest rate decrease, the fair value of our fixed-rate debt would increase and it would be more costly for us to repurchase it (not taking into account that an increased credit spread reduces the value of the debt). 74 Table of Contents OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risks In the table below, the potential change in fair value for interest rate sensitive instruments is based on a hypothetical and immediate 1% fall or rise for 2014 and 2013, in interest rates across all maturities and for all currencies. Interest rate sensitive instruments are fixed-rate, long-term debt or swaps and marketable securities. December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 (In millions of euros) Booked value Fairvalue Fair valuevariationif rates fallby 1% (1) Fair valuevariationif rates riseby 1% Booked value Fairvalue Fair valuevariationif rates fallby 1% (1) Fair valuevariationif rates riseby 1% Assets Marketable securities 1,672 1,672 (2) 2 2,259 2,259 6 (6) Cash and cash equivalents (2) 3,878 3,878 - - 4,096 4,096 - - Liabilities Convertible bonds (1,498) (2,346) (55) 53 (1,191) (1,989) (21) 20 Non convertible bonds (3,198) (3,372) (229) 205 (4,485) (4,746) (269) 244 Other financial debt (581) (581) - - (486) (486) - - Derivative interest rate instruments - other current and non-current assets 1 1 37 13 11 11 - (1) Derivative interest rate instruments - other current and non-current liabilities - - - - (21) (21) (3) 17 Loan to co-venturer - financial asset - - - - 7 7 - - Debt/cash position before FX derivatives 274 (748) (249) 273 190 (867) (287) 274 Derivative FX instruments on financial debt - other current and non-current assets 123 123 - - 5 5 - - Derivative FX instruments on financial debt - other current and non-current liabilities (71) (71) - - (46) (46) - - DEBT/CASH POSITION 326 (696) (249) 273 149 (908) (287) 274 (1) If the interest rate is negative after the decrease of 1%, the sensitivity is calculated with an interest rate equal to 0%. (2) For cash and cash equivalents, the booked value is considered as a good estimation of the fair value. The fair value of the instruments in the table above is calculated with market standard financial software according to the market parameters prevailing on December 31, 2014. Fair value hedge and cash flow hedge The ineffective portion of changes in fair value hedges and cash flow hedges was nil at December 31, 2014, as was the case at December 31, 2013. Net investment hedge At each of December 31, 2014 and 2013, there were no derivatives that qualified as investment hedges. Equity risks We may use derivative instruments to manage the equity investments in listed companies that we hold in our portfolio. We may sell call options on shares held in our portfolio and any profit would be measured by the difference between our book value for such securities and the exercise price of the option, plus the premium received. We may also use derivative instruments on our shares held in treasury. Such transactions are authorized as part of the stock repurchase program approved at our shareholders’ general meeting held on May 28, 2014. We do not currently have any derivative instruments in place on investments in listed companies or on our shares held in treasury. Additional information regarding market and credit risks, including the hedging instruments used, is provided in Note 26 to our consolidated financial statements. 75 Table of Contents 6 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Legal Matters 6.8 Legal Matters In addition to legal proceedings incidental to the conduct of its business (including employment-related collective actions in France and the United States) which management believes are adequately reserved against in the financial statements (see Note 25e to our consolidated financial statements) or will not result in any significant costs to the Group, Alcatel-Lucent is involved in the following legal proceedings. a/ Governmental actions and investigations Costa Rican actions Beginning in early October 2004, Alcatel-Lucent learned that investigations had been launched in Costa Rica by the Costa Rican prosecutors and the National Congress, regarding payments made by consultants allegedly on behalf of Alcatel CIT, a French subsidiary now called Alcatel-Lucent France (CIT), or other Alcatel-Lucent subsidiaries to various public officials in Costa Rica, two political parties in Costa Rica and representatives of Instituto Costarricense de Electricidad (ICE), the state-owned telephone company, in connection with the procurement by CIT of several contracts for network equipment and services from ICE. Upon learning of these allegations, Alcatel commenced an investigation into this matter. In connection with the Costa Rica allegations, on July 27, 2007, the Costa Rican Prosecutor’s Office indicted eleven individuals, including the former president of Alcatel de Costa Rica, on charges of aggravated corruption, unlawful enrichment, simulation, fraud and others. Three of those individuals have since pled guilty. Shortly thereafter, the Costa Rican Attorney General’s Office and ICE, acting as victims of this criminal case, each filed amended civil claims against the eleven criminal defendants, as well as five additional civil defendants (one individual and four corporations, including CIT) seeking compensation for damages in the amounts of U.S.$52 million (in the case of the Attorney General’s Office) and U.S.$20 million (in the case of ICE). The Attorney General’s claim supersedes two prior claims, of November 25, 2004 and August 31, 2006. On November 25, 2004, the Costa Rican Attorney General’s Office commenced a civil lawsuit against CIT to seek pecuniary compensation for the damage caused by the alleged payments described above to the people and the Treasury of Costa Rica, and for the loss of prestige suffered by the Nation of Costa Rica (social damages). The ICE claim, which supersedes its prior claim of February 1, 2005, seeks pecuniary compensation for the damage caused by the alleged payments described above to ICE and its customers, for the harm to the reputation of ICE resulting from these events (moral damages), and for damages resulting from an alleged overpricing it was forced to pay under its contract with CIT. During preliminary court hearings held in San José during September 2008, ICE filed a report in which the damages allegedly caused by CIT are valued at U.S.$71.6 million. Alcatel-Lucent settled the Attorney General’s social damages claims in return for a payment by CIT of approximately U.S.$10 million. ICE argued that their civil claims are not included in the settlement with the Attorney General, and proceeded to take such civil claims to trial with the criminal claims. The trial of the criminal case, including the related civil claims, started on April 14, 2010. On April 5, 2011, the trial was closed by the Tribunal. The Tribunal rendered its verdict on April 27, 2011, and declined on procedural grounds to rule on ICE’s related civil claims against Alcatel-Lucent. The Tribunal issued its full written ruling on May 25, 2011. The corresponding reserve previously booked for an amount of approximately €2 million was fully reversed during the second quarter 2011. In December 2012, the Court of Appeals (which found all of the individual defendants not guilty on procedural grounds) reversed the lower criminal court’s decision not to rule in the matter of ICE’s claim against Alcatel-Lucent and remanded that matter for resolution. In the beginning of 2013, ICE filed an extraordinary appeal on cassation before the Costa Rican Supreme Court seeking to obtain confirmation of the lower criminal court’s decision which referred the parties to a civil court. In 2014, the Supreme Court reversed the Court of Appeals’ decision to render invalid certain key evidence against some of the individual defendants and ordered the Court of Appeals to issue a new decision. The lower criminal court will decide on Alcatel-Lucent’s claim against ICE for legal costs. Additionally, in August 2007, ICE notified CIT of the commencement of an administrative proceeding to terminate the 2001 contract for CIT to install 400,000 GSM cellular telephone lines (the “400KL GSM Contract”), in connection with which ICE is claiming compensation of U.S.$59.8 million for damages and loss of income. By March 2008, CIT and ICE concluded negotiations of a draft settlement agreement for the implementation of a “Get Well Plan,” in full and final settlement of the above-mentioned claim. This settlement agreement was not approved by ICE’s Board of Directors which resolved, instead, to resume the aforementioned administrative proceedings to terminate the operations and maintenance portion of the 400KL GSM Contract, claim penalties and damages in the amount of U.S.$59.8 million and call the performance bond. CIT was notified of the termination by ICE of this portion of the 400 KL GSM Contract on June 23, 2008. ICE has made additional damages claims and penalty assessments related to the 400KL GSM Contract that bring the overall exposure under the contract to U.S.$78.1 million in the aggregate, of which ICE has collected U.S.$5.9 million. In June 2008, CIT filed an administrative appeal against the termination mentioned above. ICE called the performance bond in August 2008, and on September 16, 2008 CIT was served notice of ICE’s request for payment of the remainder amount of damages claimed, U.S.$44.7 million. On September 17, 2008, the Costa Rican Supreme Court ruled on the appeal filed by CIT stating: (i) that the U.S.$15.1 million performance bond amount was to be reimbursed to CIT and (ii) to suspend the U.S.$44.7 million claim until final resolution by the competent court of the case. Following a clarification request filed by ICE, the Court finally decided that the U.S.$15.1 million performance 76 Table of Contents OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Legal Matters bond amount was to remain deposited in an escrow account held by the Court, until final resolution of the case. On October 8, 2008, CIT filed a claim against ICE requesting the court to overrule ICE’s partial termination of the 400KL GSM Contract and claiming compensation for the damages caused to CIT. In January 2009, ICE filed its response to CIT’s claim. At a court hearing on March 25, 2009, ICE ruled out entering into settlement discussions with CIT. On April 20, 2009, CIT filed a petition to the Court to recover the U.S.$15.1 million performance bond amount and offered the replacement of such bond with a new bond that would guarantee the results of the final decision of the Court. CIT appealed the Court’s rejection of such petition and the appeal was resolved on March 18, 2010 in favor of CIT. As a consequence of this decision, CIT can collect the aforementioned U.S.$15.1 million amount upon submission to the Court of a bank guarantee for an equivalent amount. Preliminary court hearings on CIT’s substantive case were held between October 2009 and October 2010. The case is expected to be set for trial in 2015. On October 14, 2008, the Costa Rican authorities notified CIT of the commencement of an administrative proceeding to ban CIT from government procurement contracts in Costa Rica for up to 5 years. In March 2010, CIT was notified of a new administrative proceeding whereby ICE seeks to ban CIT from procurement contracts, as a consequence of alleged material breaches under the 400KL GSM Contract (in particular, in connection with failures related to road coverage and quality levels). The administrative proceeding was suspended on December 8, 2009 pending the resolution of the criminal case mentioned above. On May 3, 2012, ICE filed before the Tribunal Contencioso Administrativo y Civil de Hacienda of Costa Rica a new claim against a number of Alcatel-Lucent legal entities with regards to the corruption matter that was investigated by and settled with the Costa Rican and United States authorities. ICE subsequently reformulated its claim, requesting U.S.$18 million for pecuniary losses and an undetermined amount for moral damages. The Tribunal, at a hearing on March 15, 2014, ruled in favor of Alcatel-Lucent, confirming that the claim had already been settled. Alcatel-Lucent had not booked a reserve for this claim. ICE appealed in cassation before the Supreme Court. The Court has not yet issued a pronouncement as to the admissibility of the appeal. Alcatel-Lucent generated €2 million in revenue from Costa Rican contracts in 2014. Based on the amount of revenue expected from these contracts, Alcatel-Lucent believes that the loss of business in Costa Rica, if it were to occur, would not have a material adverse effect on the Alcatel-Lucent group as a whole. Alcatel-Lucent has recognized a provision in connection with the various ongoing proceedings in Costa Rica when reliable estimates of the probable future outflow were available. Investigations and action in France French authorities are carrying out investigations into certain conduct by Alcatel-Lucent subsidiaries in Nigeria and French Polynesia. With respect to Nigeria, French authorities requested that Alcatel-Lucent produce further documents related to payments made by its subsidiaries to certain consultants in Nigeria. Alcatel-Lucent responded to the request and is continuing to cooperate with the investigating authorities. The investigation with respect to French Polynesia concerns the conduct of Alcatel-Lucent’s telecommunication submarine system subsidiary, Alcatel-Lucent Submarine Networks (ASN), and certain former employees of Alcatel-Lucent in relation to a project for a telecommunication submarine cable between Tahiti and Hawaii awarded to ASN in 2007 by the state-owned telecom agency of French Polynesia (OPT). On September 23, 2009, four of those former employees were placed under formal investigation on suspicion of being accomplices to alleged favoritism in connection with the award by OPT of this public procurement project. On November 23, 2009, ASN was placed under formal investigation on suspicion of benefitting from favoritism. In March 2011, several current or former public officials of French Polynesia were placed under formal investigation on suspicion of either favoritism or being accomplices to favoritism. In a decision dated February 6, 2014, the investigating magistrate determined that ASN has to stand trial for allegedly benefitting from favoritism. If ASN were convicted of a criminal violation, the French courts could, among other things, fine ASN and/or ban it from participating in French public procurement contracts for a certain period. ASN generated less than half a million euros of revenues from French public procurement contracts in 2014. Accordingly, Alcatel-Lucent does not believe that a loss of business as a result of such a ban would have a material effect on the Alcatel-Lucent group as a whole. Investigation in Nigeria On February 21, 2013, we were advised that the Nigerian anticorruption authorities had commenced an investigation regarding the alleged mismanagement of the National Rural Telephony Project and the involvement of Alcatel-Lucent Nigeria Ltd (ALU Nigeria) and other vendors in such project. Our Chinese joint venture, Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell (ASB), entered into a contract with the Nigerian government for Phase I of this project on June 5, 2002. By an amendment dated April 4, 2003, the contract was assigned to a consortium including ASB and a state-owned Chinese engineering company named China National Machinery and Equipment Import and Export Corporation (CMEC). ALU Nigeria was not a party to the consortium, but acted as a subcontractor for the project. Phase I of this project was accepted by the Nigerian government. On December 27, 2006, ASB and CMEC entered into a contract with the Nigerian government for Phase II of this project, and our portion of the contract was assigned to CMEC on February 1, 2007. Phase II of the project was never performed due to a lack of financing. We still do not have any more detail as to the nature of the alleged mismanagement. We are cooperating with this investigation and conducting an internal review into this matter. 77 Table of Contents 6 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS Legal Matters b/ Other proceedings Legal proceeding on the pension fund in the Netherlands Upon termination of the administration agreement relating to the pension fund for the Alcatel-Lucent employees in the Netherlands on December 31, 2011, the pension fund administrator filed a claim against our Dutch subsidiary with the District Court in The Hague for up to €182 million in damages to compensate it for the wind-up costs allegedly to be incurred due to such termination. On October 11, 2012, the District Court dismissed the claim entirely. The pension fund filed an appeal with the Court of Justice in The Hague on January 8, 2013, increasing its principal claim to a maximum amount of €276 million, and asserting several alternative claims for lower amounts, the lowest amount being €14 million. On September 9, 2014, the Court of Justice upheld the District Court’s decision to dismiss the lawsuit. On December 9, 2014 the pension fund filed a cassation request (to set aside the decision) with the Dutch High Council. A decision by the Council is not expected before the end of 2015. No reserve has been booked in this matter. c/ Effect of the various proceedings Governmental investigations and legal proceedings are subject to uncertainties and the outcomes thereof are difficult to predict. Consequently, Alcatel-Lucent is unable to estimate the ultimate aggregate amount of monetary liability or financial impact with respect to these matters. Because of the uncertainties of government investigations and legal proceedings, one or more of these matters could ultimately result in material monetary payments by Alcatel-Lucent beyond those to be made by reason of the various settlement agreements described in Note 31 to our consolidated financial statements. Except for these governmental investigations and legal proceedings and their possible consequences as set forth above, the Company is not aware, as of the date this document is being published, of any legal proceeding or governmental investigation (including any suspended or threatened proceeding) against Alcatel-Lucent and/or its subsidiaries that could have a material impact on the financial situation or profitability of the Group. No significant new litigation has been commenced since December 31, 2014. 6.9 Research and development - expenditures In 2014, 16.7% of revenues were spent in innovation and in supporting our various product lines. These expenditures amounted to €2,200 million before capitalization of development expenses and capital gain (loss) on disposal of fixed assets, and excluding the impact of the purchase price allocation entries of the business combination with Lucent, which represents a decrease of 0.2% from the €2,205 million spent in 2013, and an increase as a percent of revenues, from 16.0% in 2013. In 2014, legacy R&D spending represented 17% of total R&D, compared to 25% in 2013, as we work to achieve our target of 15% by 2015 as part of The Shift Plan. 78 Table of Contents Corporate governance 7 7.1 Chairman’s corporate governance report 80 7.2 Regulated agreements 115 7.3 Alcatel Lucent Code of Conduct 116 7.4 Major differences between our corporate governance practices and NYSE requirements 116 79 Table of Contents 7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report The report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors governed by the provisions of Article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code, describes among other things the composition of the Board and how it prepares and organizes its work. The following topics required to be included in the report are dealt with in Chapter 7 “Corporate governance” or elsewhere, as indicated: · the composition of the Board of Directors, the limitations of the powers of the Chief Executive Officer and the preparation and organization of the work of the Board of Directors and of the Committees, in Section 7.1 “Chairman’s corporate governance report”; · the compensation of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and of the Chief Executive Officer (“Executive Directors”), in Chapter 8 “Compensation and long-term incentives” relating to the compensation policy and commitments concerning retirement for the Executive Directors and long-term compensation mechanisms for to the Executive Directors; · the attendance of shareholders at the Shareholders’ Meetings and the information required by Article L. 225-100-3 of the French Commercial Code which may have an effect in the event of a takeover bid, in Sections 10.1.2 « Specific provisions of the bylaws and of law », 10.1.3 « Elements which could have an impact in case of public tender offer (information required by Article L. 225-100-3 of the French Commercial Code) », 10.2 « Capital » and 10.5 « Shareholders’ Meetings ». 7.1 Chairman’s corporate governance report 7.1.1 Management bodies of the Company 7.1.1.1 The Board of Directors Alcatel Lucent has a Board of Directors, consisting, on March 13, 2015, of eleven Directors appointed for three years, ten of which are independent according to the AFEP-MEDEF Code. Our Board of Directors also includes two Board Observers (in French, “Censeurs”). Philippe Camus Chairman of the Board of Directors and independent Director Jean C. Monty Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors and independent Director Michel Combes CEO and Director Francesco Caio Independent Director Chief Executive Officer of Poste Italiane Carla Cico Independent Director Stuart E. Eizenstat Independent Director Chair International Trade & Finance of Covington & Burling LLP Kim Crawford Goodman Independent Director Louis R. Hughes Independent Director Chairman of InZero Systems Véronique Morali Independent Director Olivier Piou Independent Director Chief Executive Officer of Gemalto Jean-Cyril Spinetta Independent Director Honorary Chairman of Air France-KLM Bertrand Lapraye Board Observer Member of the FCP 2AL “Actionnariat Alcatel-Lucent” Gilles Le Dissez Board Observer Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the FCP 2AL “Actionnariat Alcatel-Lucent” Barbara Larsen Secretary to the Board of Directors General Counsel Nathalie Trolez Mazurier Deputy Secretary to the Board of Directors Director Securities & Corporate Law 80 Table of Contents CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report As of March 13, 2015, our Board of Directors consists of 11 Directors, three of whom are women, representing four different nationalities and with an average age of 60 years. The term of office is three years and, in compliance with the AFEP-MEDEF code of corporate governance for listed companies (“AFEP-MEDEF Code”; see Section 7.1.2.3 “AFEP-MEDEF Code” for more information), the renewal of the terms of office as director is staggered. One third of the members of the Board of Directors has been renewed each year since 2013 (see Section 7.1.4.2 “Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee”). The Board of Directors consists of 11 Directors, 3 of whom are women, representing 4 different nationalities Directors Positions Age Independence (1) Nationality Expiration ofmandates Mandates tobe renewed Mr. Camus Chairman 66 Yes French SM 2016 Mr. Monty Director 67 Yes Canadian SM 2016 Mr. Combes CEO 52 No French SM 2016 Mr. Caio Director 57 Yes Italian SM 2017 Mrs. Cico Director 54 Yes Italian SM 2016 Mr. Eizenstat Director 72 Yes American SM 2015 · Mrs. Goodman Director 49 Yes American SM 2017 Mr. Hughes Director 66 Yes American SM 2015 · Mrs. Morali Director 56 Yes French SM 2017 Mr. Piou Director 56 Yes French SM 2015 · Mr. Spinetta Director 71 Yes French SM 2017 (1) Independent Director pursuant to the AFEP-MEDEF Code. (2) The renewal will be submitted to the shareholders at the Shareholders’ Meeting to be held on May 26, 2015. 81 Table of Contents 7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report 7.1.1.2 The Committees of the Board of Directors Our Board of Directors has four specialized Committees which examine matters falling within the competence of the Board and provide their views and proposals to the Board. Following Mrs. Véronique Morali and Mr. Francesco Caio’s nominations by the Shareholders’ Meeting on May 28, 2014, each Committee was composed as follows: Audit and Finance Committee Jean C. Monty, Chairman Kim Crawford Goodman Louis R. Hughes Jean-Cyril Spinetta Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee Jean-Cyril Spinetta, Chairman Stuart E. Eizenstat Louis R. Hughes Jean C. Monty Olivier Piou Compensation Committee Jean-Cyril Spinetta, Chairman Stuart E. Eizenstat Véronique Morali Olivier Piou Technology Committee Louis R. Hughes, Chairman Francesco Caio Carla Cico Kim Crawford Goodman Olivier Piou Philippe Keryer (member who is not a Director) The role and the organization of these four Committees are detailed in Section 7.1.4 “Powers and activity of the Board of Directors’ Committees.” 82 Table of Contents CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report 7.1.1.3 The Leadership team and the Management Committee The Leadership team includes the managers from the various organizational areas, namely the business lines, transversal functions and corporate functions. Within the Leadership team, the managers from the transversal and corporate functions together with the CEO form the Management Committee, consisting of six members. The Management Committee is mainly responsible for the strategy and organization of the Group, policies to be implemented, long-term financial planning and the human resources strategy. It is responsible for supervising the implementation of the Group plans and projects, monitoring the performance of each segment of activity and allocating the resources between these different segments. Appointments as members of the Leadership team Mr. Tim Krause became a member on January 1, 2014 Mr. Bhaskar Gorti became a member on January 12, 2015 Outgoing members of the Leadership team Mr. Andrew McDonald was a member until January 12, 2015 83 Table of Contents 7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report Information on the current Directors and Board Observers Philippe CAMUS Chairman of the Board of Directors - Independent Director (1) Born on June 28, 1948, French citizen First appointment: 2008 - Term of the mandate: 2016 Alcatel Lucent shareholding: 1,131,352 ordinary shares Business Address: Alcatel Lucent 148/152 route de la Reine 92100 Boulogne-Billancourt France Current directorships and professional positions · In France: Chairman of the Board of Directors of Alcatel Lucent*, Honorary Chairman of Groupement des Industries Françaises Aéronautiques et Spatiales (GIFAS). · Abroad: Chief Executive Officer of Keynolt Inc., Chairman of the Board of Directors of Aptamir Inc., Senior Advisor of Evercore Partners Inc.*, Director of Cellfish Media LLC. Positions held over the last 5 years, now ended · In France: Co-managing Partner of Lagardère Group*, Member of the Supervisory Board of Lagardère Active and of Lagardère Services, Director of Éditions P. Amaury, and of Crédit Agricole* SA, Permanent Representative of Lagardère SCA to the Board of Directors of Hachette SA, Permanent Representative of Hachette SA to the Board of Directors of Lagardère Services, Vice-Chairman, Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Arjil Commanditée - Arco. · Abroad: Chairman and CEO of Lagardère North America Inc., Director of Schlumberger* and of Lagardère Unlimited Inc. Career · Philippe Camus is Chairman of the Board of Alcatel-Lucent since 2008, and Senior Advisor of Evercore Partners. Philippe Camus left the Lagardère Group in 2012. He was co-managing partner of the Lagardère Group and Chairman and CEO of Lagardère North America. He began his career in 1972 in the Finance Department of the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations. After being Financial Analyst and Portfolio Manager, he was appointed Head of the Fixed Income Directorate in 1976. Under his leadership the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations improved its operating efficiency on the bond market generating higher profit and modernizing the French bond market. He joined the Lagardère Group in 1982 as Executive Chairman of the Finance Committee of the Matra Group until 1992 and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Banque Arjil until 1993. He was appointed Managing Director of the Lagardère Group in 1993 and was co-managing partner of Lagardère SCA from 1998 to June 2012. As Managing Director of Lagardère, he managed the restructuring of the Matra Group (Aerospace and High Technology) by implementing a tight financial and reporting governance structure and by divesting units to focus the activities on the core business. He personally managed every acquisition, merger, partnership or divestiture realized by Matra from 1982 until 1998. Starting in 1986, he engineered the transformation of Matra and Hachette into an integrated company, thus founding the Lagardère Group. As part of this he managed the rescue of the Hachette Group after the bankruptcy of one of its ventures in television broadcasting (La Cinq). His expertise in international negotiations and management, led him to conduct and oversee the work bringing to the creation of EADS, (now Airbus Group) the 2nd largest aerospace company worldwide. First named Chief Operating Officer, then Chief Executive Officer of Aérospatiale - Matra in 1999, he was Chief Executive Officer of EADS from 2000 until 2005. Philippe Camus was a member of the French supervisory authority for the financial markets from 1996 to 2001. He is a board member of the Institut d’Expertise et de Prospective of the Ecole Normale Supérieure and has been President of GIFAS (French Aerospace Industries Association) from 2001 to 2005. He was a director of Schlumberger from 2007 to April 2012. In July 2005, Philippe Camus was made Officier of the French Légion d’Honneur and in May 2004, he was awarded the Cross of the German Merit Order (Verdienstkreuz - 1 Klasse). Philippe Camus has an Economics and Finance degree from the Institut d’Etudes Politiques de Paris, a Physics degree from the Ecole Normale Supérieure (rue d’Ulm) and a doctorate in Actuarial Sciences. · Expertise: 43 years in banking, finance, insurance and 16 years in the industrial sector. * Listed company (1) Pursuant to the AFEP-MEDEF Code. 84 Table of Contents CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report Jean C. MONTY Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors - Independent Director Born on June 26, 1947, Canadian citizen First appointment: 2008 - Term of the mandate: 2016 Alcatel Lucent shareholding: 30,001 ordinary shares, 2,399,397 ordinary shares via Libermont Inc. and 2,600,003 American Depositary Shares via Libermont Inc. Business Address: 1485, rue Sherbrooke Ouest, Suite 2B Montreal (Québec) Canada Current directorships and professional positions · In France: Independent Director, Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chairman of the Audit and Finance Committee and Member of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of Alcatel Lucent*. · Abroad: Director, Member of the Audit Committee, Chairman of the Human Ressources and Compensation Committee of Bombardier*, Director of Centria Inc. and of Fiera Capital Inc.*, Member of the International Advisory Board of the Ecole des Hautes Études Commerciales. Career · Jean C. Monty holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from Collège Sainte-Marie of Montréal, a Master of Arts in economics from the University of Western Ontario, and a Master of Business Administration from the University of Chicago. Jean C. Monty began his career at Bell Canada in 1974 and held numerous positions in the BCE group. He joined Nortel Networks Corporation in October 1992 as President and Chief Operating Officer before being nominated President and Chief Executive Officer in March 1993. On April 24, 2002, Mr. Monty, then Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Bell Canada Enterprises (BCE Inc.), retired after a 28-year career. He is a member of the Board of Directors of Bombardier Inc. since 1998, and a member of the Board of Directors of Centria Inc. and Fiera Capital Inc. He is also a member of the International Advisory Board of the école des Hautes Études Commerciales. He was appointed a member of the Order of Canada for his contribution to business, public interests and community affairs. In recognition of these achievements, he was elected Canada’s Outstanding CEO of the Year for 1997. In addition, he was inducted into the Académie des Grands Montréalais. · Expertise: 34 years in telecommunications and 10 years in finance. * Listed company 85 Table of Contents 7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report Michel COMBES Chief Executive Officer - Director not independent Born on March 29, 1962, French citizen First appointment: 2013 - Term of the mandate: 2016 Alcatel Lucent shareholding: 500 ordinary shares Business Address: Alcatel Lucent 148/152 route de la Reine 92100 Boulogne-Billancourt France Current directorships and professional positions · In France: Chief Executive Officer and Director of Alcatel Lucent*. · Abroad: Director, Member of the Audit Committee, Member of the Nominating and Remuneration Committee of MTS OJSC*, Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee, Member of the Nominating and Remuneration Committee of Altice*. Directorships over the last 5 years · In France: Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Assystem SA*(1), Chairman of the Board of Directors of Atari*. · Abroad: Director of Vodaphone PLC*, Member of the Board of Directors ISS A/S and ISS World Services A/S. Career · Mr. Michel Combes graduated from the École Polytechnique and the École Nationale Supérieure des Télécommunications. He began his career at France Telecom in 1986 in the External Networks Division, and then moved to the Industrial and International Affairs Division. After being technical advisor to the French Minister of Transportation from 1991 to 1995, he served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of GlobeCast from 1995 to 1999. He was Executive Vice President of Nouvelles Frontières Group from December 1999 until the end of 2001 when he moved to the position of Chief Executive Officer of Assystem, a company specializing in industrial engineering until the end of 2002. He returned to France Telecom Group in January 2003 as Chief Financial Officer and Senior Executive Vice President. Until January 2006, he was Senior Executive Vice President, in charge of NExT Financial Balance & Value Creation and a member of the France Telecom Group Strategic Committee. From 2006 to 2008, he was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of TDF Group and then became Chief Executive Officer, Europe Region, of Vodafone PLC and Board member. · Expertise: 28 years in telecommunications. * Listed company (1) Term of office expired in May 2014 86 Table of Contents CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report Francesco CAIO Independent Director Born on August 23, 1957, Italian citizen First appointment: 2014 - Term of the mandate: 2017 Alcatel Lucent shareholding: 2,100 ordinary shares Business Address: Poste Italiane Viale Europa 175 00144 Roma Italy Current directorships and professional positions · In France: Independent Director and Member of the Technology Committee of Alcatel Lucent*. · Abroad: CEO Poste Italiane (1). Positions held over the last 5 years · Abroad: Member of Icann’s High-Level Panel on Global Internet Cooperation and Governance Mechanisms (2), Non executive Director of Avio Aero (2), Italian Government Commissioner for the implementation of the Digital Agenda, Chief Executive Officer of Avio Aero, Chief Executive Officer of Avio, Vice Chairman of Nomura Holdings, Director of Indesit Company*, Sole 24 ORE* and Invensys Plc*, Chairman of Caio Digital Partners. Career · Mr. Caio graduated in Electronic Engineering at Politecnico di Milano (Italy) and holds an MBA from INSEAD, France. He worked with McKinsey & Company in London (1986-1991). From 1994 to 1996, he served as Chief Executive Officer of Omnitel and then as the Chief Executive Officer of Olivetti after being the head of the telecommunications and multimedia division (1991-1994). Mr. Caio has been the Chief Executive Officer of Merloni Electrodomestici (1997-2000), of Netscalibur Limited (2000 to 2003) and of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc (2003-2006). He became Vice-Chairman Europe and Chairman of the European Advisory Board of Lehman Brothers Inc. (2006-2008). He was also Vice Chairman of Europe Investment Banking of Nomura Holdings from October 2008 to March 2011. From 2011 to 2013, he was the Chief Executive Officer of Avio S.p.A. which became AVIO AERO. Moreover, he was Director of Equant (1998-2001), Motorola Inc. (2000-2003), Sole 24 ORE S.p.A. (2010-2011), Indesit Company SpA (between 1996 and 2004 and 2010 and 2013) and Invensys Plc (2009-2013). He has worked as advisor to governments: in 2008 in the UK - where he led an independent review of broadband networks - in 2009 and 2013 in Italy in the areas of broadband infrastructure and e-government. He has been Italian Government Commissioner for the implementation of the Digital Agenda. · Expertise: 31 years of executive and non-executive leadership and advisory roles in multinational groups operating in high technology and industrial sectors– telecommunications, aerospace, electronics and media. * Listed company (1) Appointed in May 2014 (2) Term of office expired in 2014 87 Table of Contents 7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report Carla CICO Independent Director Born on February 21, 1961, Italian citizen First appointment: 2010 - Term of the mandate: 2016 Alcatel Lucent shareholding: 29,359 ordinary shares Business Address: Strada Castellana 30/A 37128 Verona Italy Current directorships and professional positions · In France: Independent Director and Member of the Technology Committee of Alcatel Lucent*. · Abroad: Director of EPTA, Independent Director, Member of the Corporate Governance Committee and of the Related Party Committee of World Duty Free*, Independent Director, Member of the Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee of Allegion*. Positions held over the last 5 years · Abroad: Chief Executive Officer of Rivoli S.p.A. (Italy), Chief Executive Officer of Ambrosetti Consulting (China). Career · Graduate from London Business School (MBA), University of London (MSE) and University of Venice, Italy (Oriental languages), from 1987 to 1992, she led the expansion of Italtel, the Italian telecom equipment provider into China’s market as its Beijing-based Chief Representative and from 1993 to 1994, she was a representative of IRI (Istituto per la Ricostruzione Industriale) in its Beijing office. From 1995 to 1999, she was an international director of business operations for Stet International. She was cited as one of the Most Powerful Women in International Business, Forbes (1994) and Fortune (1995). From 2001 to 2005, she was CEO of Brazil Telecom. In Reuters Institutional Investor Research (2003), she was selected as the Best Chief Executive Officer in the Telecommunications Sector in Latin America. From 2007 to 2009, she was CEO of the Chinese subsidiary of Ambrosetti Consulting based in Beijing. Carla Cico was from 2010 to 2012, the CEO of Rivoli S.p.A, an infrastructure Company with operations both in Italy and abroad. · Expertise: 28 years in the industry sector. * Listed company 88 Table of Contents CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report Stuart E. EIZENSTAT Independent Director Born on January 15, 1943, U.S. citizen First appointment: 2008 - Term of the mandate: 2015 Alcatel Lucent shareholding: 29,963 ordinary shares Business Address: Covington & Burling LLP 1201 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Suite 1117C Washington, DC 20004 USA Current directorships and professional positions · In France: Independent Director, Member of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and Member of the Compensation Committee of Alcatel Lucent*. · Abroad: Partner and Head of the International Trade and Finance Practice at Covington and Burling LLP, Independent Director, Member of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, Member of the Compensation Committee of United Parcel Service*, Independent Director of Globe Specialty Metals*, Trustee of BlackRock Funds, Member of the international Advisory Board of GML Ltd. Directorships over the last 5 years · Abroad: Independent Director of Chicago Climate Exchange, Member of the international Advisory Board of The Coca-Cola Company*. Career · Stuart E. Eizenstat graduated with honors and Phi Beta Kappa in political science from the University of North Carolina and from Harvard Law School. He holds seven honorary doctorate degrees from various universities and academic institutions and has received the French Legion of Honour and high Awards from German, Austrian, Israeli and U.S. Governments. He has received over 50 awards. Following graduation from law school, he served on the White House Staff of President Lyndon Johnson (1967-1968). He served as Chief Domestic Policy Adviser and Executive Director of the White House Domestic Policy Staff (1977-1981) under President Jimmy Carter. From 1981-1993 he was a Partner and Vice Chairman of the law firm Powell, Goldstein, Frazer & Murphy and he was also Adjunct Lecturer at the John F. Kennedy School of Government of Harvard University (1982-1992). Stuart E. Eizenstat was U.S. Ambassador to the European Union (1993-1996). He served as Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade (1996-1997), Under Secretary of State for Economic, Business and Agricultural Affairs (1997-1999) and Deputy Secretary of the Treasury (1999-2001) while continuing to work as the Special Representative of the President on Holocaust-Era Issues. During the Clinton Administration, he had a prominent role in the development of key international initiatives involving the European Union. He is a Partner and Head of the International Trade and Finance Practice at Covington & Burling LLP law firm. Moreover, he is a member of the Boards of Directors of United Parcel Service, BlackRock Funds, and Globe Specialty Metals. Stuart E. Eizenstat is the author of “Imperfect Justice”, which has been translated into German, French, Czech and Hebrew, and “The Future of the Jews: How Global Forces are Impacting on the Jewish People, Israel, and its Relationship with the United States”. His articles have been published in leading publications such as The Financial Times, the New York Times, the International Herald Tribune, and The Washington Post. · Expertise: 34 years in law and 18 years in governmental affairs. * Listed company 89 Table of Contents 7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report Kim CRAWFORD GOODMAN Independent Director Born on May 1st, 1965, U.S. citizen First appointment: 2012 - Term of the mandate: 2017 Alcatel Lucent shareholding: 6 348 ordinary shares Business Address: 1666 Micanopy Avenue Miami Florida 33133 USA Current directorships and professional positions · In France: Independent Director, Member of the Technology Committee and Member of the Audit and Finance Committee of Alcatel Lucent*. Directorships over the last 5 years · Abroad: Independent Director of AutoNation*. Career · Mrs. Kim Crawford Goodman holds a Bachelor of Arts in Political Science and a Masters of Science in Industrial Engineering from Stanford University, and a Masters in Business Administration from Harvard Business School. She started her career in consulting at Bain & Company from 1987 to 2000, before working in the industry sector at Dell Inc. where she held several operating roles from 2000 to 2007 most recently as head of Dell’s software and peripherals business. Then she joined American Express in 2007, where she led the Merchant Services business for the Americas for four years. Most recently, she was the Global President for American Express Global Business Travel Division with responsibility for all worldwide teams for sales, service, supplier relation and online/mobile solutions. · Expertise: 8 years in bank, finance, insurance, 8 years in technology and 12 years in strategy consulting. * Listed company 90 Table of Contents CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report Louis R. HUGHES Independent Director Born on February 10, 1949, U.S. citizen First appointment: 2008 - Term of the mandate: 2015 Alcatel Lucent shareholding: 33,926 ordinary shares Business Address: InZero Systems 13755 Sunrise Valley Drive, Suite 750 Herndon, VA 20171 USA Current directorships and professional positions · In France: Independent Director, Chairman of the Technology Committee, Member of the Audit and Finance Committee and Member of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of Alcatel Lucent*. · Abroad: Chairman of InZero Systems (formerly GBS Laboratories) (USA), Independent Director, Member of the Audit Committee of Akzo Nobel* (The Netherlands), Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit, Finance and Compliance Committee of ABB* (Switzerland), and Executive Advisor Partner of Wind Point Partners. Positions held over the last 5 years · Abroad: Chief Executive Officer of GBS Laboratories (USA), Independent Director of Sulzer* (Switzerland), Member of the Advisory Board of Directors of British Telecom Americas (USA). Career · Louis R. Hughes graduated from Harvard Business School (MBA, 1973) and from Kettering University (formerly General Motors Institute), B.S. (Mechanical Engineering, 1971). He is Chairman of InZero Systems (formerly GBS Laboratories LLC). He was also CEO of GBS from 2005-2010. Louis R. Hughes is an Executive Advisor Partner of Wind Point Partners. Moreover, Mr Hughes has been a member of the Boards of Directors of ABB (Switzerland, since 2003) and Akzo Nobel (The Netherlands, since 2007). He served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Lockheed Martin Corp. His prior experiences also include positions of Chief of Staff Afghanistan Reconstruction Group, U.S. Department of State, from 2004 to 2005, Executive Vice President of General Motors Corporation from 1992 to 2000, President of General Motors International Operations from 1994 to 1999, President of General Motors Europe from 1992 to 1994 and Managing Director of Adam Opel AG from 1989 to 1992. He was non-executive Chairman of Maxager (renamed Outperformance in 2008) from 2000 to 2008. He has also served on several Boards, including: Sulzer (Switzerland) from 2001 to 2009, British Telecom (United Kingdom) from 2000 to 2006, Electrolux AB (Sweden) from 1996 to 2008, MTU Aero Engines GmbH (Germany) from 2006 to 2008, Deutsche Bank from 1993 to 2000, Saab Automobile AB from 1992 to 2000 and Adam Opel AG from 1989 to 1992. He was also a member of the British Telecom Americas Advisory Board from 2006 to 2009. · Expertise: 35 years in the industry sector, 15 in the telecommunications sector and 9 years in computer security sector. * Listed company 91 Table of Contents 7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report Véronique MORALI Independent Director Born on September 12, 1958, French citizen First appointment: 2014 - Term of the mandate: 2017 Alcatel Lucent shareholding: 500 ordinary shares Business Address: Webedia 3, avenue Hoche 75008 Paris France Current directorships and professional positions · In France: Independent Director and Member of the Compensation Committee of Alcatel Lucent*, Chief Executive Officer of Webedia, Director, Member of the Audit Committee of Edmond de Rothschild SA, Member of the Supervisory Board, Member of the Audit Committee, Member of the Compensation Committee of Edmond de Rothschild (France), Director, Member of the Supervisory Board of Publicis Group*. · Abroad: Chairman of Fimalac Développement, Vice-Chairman of Fitch Group Inc., Director of Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc.* and of Fitch Inc., Member of the Audit Committee of Edmond de Rothschild Holding SA. Directorships over the last 5 years · In France: Director of Fimalac*(1) and Permanent Representative of Fimalac*(1) to the Board of Directors of Groupe Lucien Barrière SAS, Director of Havas, Member of the Strategy Committee of Ernst & Young, Chairman of TFco Terrafemina. Career · Mrs Véronique Morali graduated from the IEP Paris, ESCP and holds a Master in Business law. After graduating from École Nationale d’Administration, Véronique Morali joined the French civil service (Inspection Générale des Finances) in 1986. She left the civil service in 1990 to join Fimalac, where she successively held the positions of Manager for Special Projects, Deputy Chief Operating Officer, and Chief Operating Officer and member of the Board. Since October 1, 2007, she has been Chairman of Fimalac Développement and Vice-Chairman of Fitch Group. She also was Chairman of the Commission du dialogue économique (Medef) from 2000 to 2005. · Expertise: 29 years in Finance, Entrepreneurship and Digital sector * Listed company (1) Term of office expired in April 2014 92 Table of Contents CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report Olivier PIOU Independent Director (1) Born on July 23, 1958, French citizen First appointment: 2008 - Term of the mandate: 2015 Alcatel Lucent shareholding: 88,955 ordinary shares Business Address: Gemalto 6, rue de la Verrerie 92190 Meudon France Current directorships and professional positions · In France: Independent Director, Member of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, Member of the Compensation Committee and Member of the Technology Committee of Alcatel Lucent*. · Abroad: CEO and Director of Gemalto* (The Netherlands). Directorships over the last 5 years · In France: Director of INRIA (Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique). Career · Olivier Piou graduated in Engineering from École Centrale de Lyon (ECL, 1980). After his military duty in the French alpine division, he joined Schlumberger in 1981 as a production engineer. He held for Schlumberger numerous management positions in the areas of technology, marketing and operations, in France and the United States. In 2004 he successfully introduced to the stock market Axalto, the smart card division of Schlumberger which he managed since 1998, through an initial public offering (IPO). He was the CEO and a Board member of Axalto from 2004 to 2006, and in 2006 he led the commended merger of equals of Axalto and Gemplus which formed Gemalto, the world leader in digital security. Since 2006 he has been the CEO of Gemalto, and a member of its Board of Directors. Olivier Piou was also formerly a member of the Board of Directors of INRIA, the French National Institute for Research in Computer Science and Control, and President of Eurosmart, the international non-for-profit association based in Brussels which represents the smart card industry. · Expertise: 34 years in the industry sector, 29 years in the computer, software, telecommunications, payment and electronic transactions sectors, 15 years in the energy sector. * Listed company (1) Pursuant to the AFEP-MEDEF Code. 93 Table of Contents 7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report Jean-Cyril SPINETTA Independent Director Born on October 4, 1943, French citizen First appointment: 2006 - Term of the mandate: 2017 Alcatel Lucent shareholding: 29,791 ordinary shares Business Address: Air France-KLM 2, rue Robert Esnault-Pelterie 75326 Paris Cedex 07 France Current directorships and professional positions · In France: Independent Director, Chairman of the Compensation Committee, Chairman of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and Member of the Audit and Finance Committee of Alcatel Lucent*, Honorary Chairman of Air France-KLM*, Directorships over the last 5 years · In France: CEO and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Air France-KLM*, Chairman of Air France, Director of the Compagnie de Saint-Gobain*, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Areva*, Director of La Poste and of Gaz de France Suez*, Chairman of the Conseil National Education Economie(1), Member of the Advisory Board of Paris Europlace. · Abroad: Director of Alitalia CAI(1), Member of the Board of Governors of IATA. Career · A graduate in public law and from the Institut d’études politiques of Paris, Jean-Cyril Spinetta began his career as assistant lecturer and later central administration attaché (1961-70). After moving to the École nationale d’administration (Charles de Gaulle class, 1970-1972), he held a number of positions within the National Education Ministry. He was several times seconded to other Departments, as Auditor of the Conseil d’État (1976-1978), chargé de mission to the General Secretariat of the Government (1978-1981), head of the Information Department of Prime Minister Pierre Mauroy (1981-1983), chief of staff to Michel Delebarre when Minister for Employment, Minister of Social Affairs, Minister of Transport and later Minister of Equipment (1984-1986 and 1988-1990), chargé de mission and industrial advisor to the Office of the President of the Republic (1994-1995), préfet (1995), technical advisor to the cabinet of Édith Cresson, EU Commissioner (1996), and expert for France seconded to the European Commission (1997). After a period as Chairman and CEO of Compagnie Air Inter (1990-1993), he was Chairman and CEO of Air France (1997-2008), as well as Chairman and CEO of Air France-KLM (2004-2008), and then Chairman of the Board of Directors of Air France-KLM and CEO once again from 2011 to 2013. Mr. Spinetta has also been Chairman of the Board of Governors of the International Association of Air Transport (IATA), a Director of Compagnie de Saint-Gobain (2005-2013), a Director of Alitalia CAI (2009-2014) and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Areva (2009-2013). · Expertise: 21 years in air transport and 22 years in public service. * Listed company (1) Term of office expired in 2014 94 Table of Contents CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report Bertrand LAPRAYE Board Observer Born on December 4, 1963, French citizen First appointment: 2010 - Term of the mandate: 2015 Alcatel Lucent shareholding: 2,694 units in FCP 2AL Business Address: Alcatel-Lucent International Centre de Villarceaux Route de Villejust 91620 Nozay France Current directorships and professional positions · In France: Engineer, Data Protection Officer, Board Observer of the Board of Directors of Alcatel Lucent*, Member of the Actionnariat Alcatel-Lucent mutual fund (FCP 2AL), Director of Humanis Prévoyance, OCIRP Prévoyance, Interexpansion / Fongepar SA. Directorships over the last 5 years · In France: Member of the Board of the Healthcare and Insurance institution La Boétie Prévoyance, Member of the Supervisory Board of Actionnariat Alcatel-Lucent mutual fund (FCP 2AL). Career · Bertrand Lapraye graduated from the French “Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble (ENSIEG)” as an Electrical Engineer (Remote-control - Signal Processing). He is a former student of the French “Institut d’Etudes Politiques”, LLB (licencié en droit université Paris 1 Panthéon Sorbonne) based in Paris. Bertrand Lapraye started his career at the Compagnie Générale d’Électricité (CGEE ALSTHOM), from 1988 to 1990. He then joined a software company (SEMA Group) working as a software engineer for various customers (French Ministry of Defence, Électricité de France, French Agriculture Ministry, Compagnie Générale de Géophysique), as a research engineer and then as a software project manager. In 1997, he joined the research center of the Alcatel group as part of a corporate software platform program dedicated to telecommunication equipment and systems, notably in optics and IP. He was an Architecture and System Team manager (1999), then consultant (2001) for distributed development projects (Europe, Canada, India, North America). In 2003 he was a member of a Research Team working on the emerging mobile internet (ad hoc networks, WiMAX, Mobile IP, etc.). He is the author of 7 patents dealing with network management and high capacity IP mobile networks. In 2008, as a member of the CTO team for the Carrier Products Group, he took part in projects aimed at improving R&D efficiency within Alcatel-Lucent. Since February 2010, he is a consultant on an R&D cost and efficiency improvement project for W-CDMA networks by implementing Agile/Lean methods. Since June 2011 Data Protection Officer (Correspondant Informatique et Libertés) in certain French subsidiaries of the group. He is Director of Humanis Prévoyance, OCIRP Prévoyance, Interexpansion / Fongepar SA · Expertise: 27 years in the industry sector, including 18 years in Telecommunications and 8 years in the Healthcare and Insurance sector. * Listed company 95 Table of Contents 7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report Gilles LE DISSEZ Board Observer Born on May 8, 1958, French citizen First appointment: 2013 - Term of the mandate: 2016 Alcatel Lucent shareholding: 15 ordinary shares and 7,870 units in FCP 2AL Business Address: Alcatel-Lucent International 4, rue Louis de Broglie 22304 Lannion France Current directorships and professional positions · In France: Engineer, Board Observer of the Board of Directors of Alcatel Lucent*, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Actionnariat Alcatel-Lucent mutual fund (FCP 2AL). Career · Gilles Le Dissez graduated from the Institut Universitaire de Technologie en Génie Electrique in electrical engineering (1978). He joined the R&D center Alcatel-Lucent France at Lannion as software developer from 1980 to 1994. He worked on the call-processing software for China, specializing on the E10 and OCB283 products. He then worked on various products of the Company and was a correspondent for Technical Center (CTE RSA) abroad. Since 2008, he is engineer gestion de configuration for Wireless WCDMA activity and participates to the ongoing integration of NodeB. In parallel, he is staff representative. · Expertise: 35 years in telecommunications * Listed company 96 Table of Contents CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report 7.1.2 Principles of organization of our Company’s management 7.1.2.1 Principles of corporate governance Separation of functions and powers Alcatel Lucent operates according to the “monist” system (meaning that it is managed by a Board of Directors). The duties of the Chairman and of the Chief Executive Officer are separated. Indeed, the Board of Directors considered that this corporate governance mode was the best one in the current context. It was confirmed to be efficient by the annual evaluations of the Board. The functions of Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer are performed, respectively, by Mr. Philippe Camus, since October 1, 2008, and by Mr. Michel Combes, since April 1, 2013. In the context of the transformation of Alcatel Lucent, the Board of Directors is particularly comfortable with the strong co-operation between the Chairman and the CEO, which confirms the choice of the governance structure for the Company. Chairman of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors reappointed Mr. Philippe Camus as Chairman of the Board of Directors following the renewal of his appointment as Director at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2013, for a three-year period, that will expire at the end of the Shareholders’ Meeting that will be called to approve the financial statements for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2015. Mr. Philippe Camus chairs the Board of Directors, and organizes and manages the tasks of the Board of Directors and reports on the outcome thereof at the annual Shareholders’ Meeting. He oversees the operation of the Company’s corporate bodies and especially those of the Committees of the Board and, more generally, ensures that the Company complies with the best corporate governance practices. The Board of Directors granted Mr. Philippe Camus a delegation of authority enabling him to represent the Group at high-level meetings, in particular with government representatives, on a national and international basis. The Chairman’s authority is detailed in Article 8 of the Operating Rules of the Board of Directors (see Section 7.1.3.2 “Operating Rules of the Board of Directors”). Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors appointed on February 21, 2013 Mr. Jean C. Monty as Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors in order to assist the Chairman for certain matters, including representing the Group at high-level meetings on the American continent, pursuant to specific requests of the Board of Directors. This appointment was confirmed following the renewal of his appointment as Director at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2013, for a three-year period, that will expire at the end of the Shareholders’ Meeting that will be called to approve the financial statements for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2015. CEO Following his appointment as CEO by the Board of Directors as of April 1, 2013, Mr. Michel Combes was appointed Director at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2013, for a three-year period, that will expire at the end of the Shareholders’ Meeting that will be called to approve the financial statements for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2015. The CEO has wide powers to act in all situations on behalf of the Company, within the limits of the corporate purpose and subject to any powers that are expressly granted by law to the shareholders and to the Board of Directors. The Operating Rules provide limitations to his powers for certain decisions which are subject to the prior approval of the Board of Directors, by reason of their purpose or the amount involved: · the update of the Group’s annual strategic plans, and any significant strategic operation not envisaged by these plans; · the Group’s annual budget and annual capital expenditure plan; · acquisitions or divestitures in an amount higher than €300 million (enterprise value); · capital expenditures in an amount higher than €300 million; · offers and commercial contracts of strategic importance in an amount higher than €1 billion; · any significant strategic alliances and industrial and financial cooperation agreements with annual projected revenues in excess of €200 million, in particular if they imply a significant shareholding by a third party in the capital of the Company; · financial transactions having a significant impact on the accounts of the Group, in particular the issuance of debt securities in amounts greater than €400 million; · amendments to the National Security Agreement (“NSA”) between Alcatel, Lucent Technologies Inc. and certain United States Government parties. Composition of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors aims to combine a range of diverse skills capable of bringing to it an expertise in the Group’s high-technology businesses but also a telecom expertise and knowledge of the various geographic markets, the business environment in which the Company operates, and sufficient financial expertise. These financial skills enable the Board of Directors to make informed and independent decisions with respect to the financial statements and compliance with accounting standards. Special attention is also paid to the quality and the complementary nature of the professional background of the Directors, both in terms of location and of the duties performed and their business sectors. 97 Table of Contents 7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report Selection of the Directors The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee provides the Board of Directors with an annual update on the selection of future Directors of the Company and the composition of the Board of Directors. The Committee conducted its own studies on potential candidates beginning in July 2014. With the assistance of an external advisor, it developed a short list of potential female candidates, who have a technology background and who are American citizens in order to enhance the diversity within the Board. The short-listed candidates were interviewed by the members of the Committee as well as by the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the CEO to evaluate their interest and their individual skills. The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee presented the result of its work at the meeting of the Board of Directors on February 5, 2015, proposing to submit the appointment of Mrs. Sylvia Summers for a period of three years to the approval of the shareholders at the next Shareholders’ Meeting. Subject to the appointment of Mrs. Sylvia Summers at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 26, 2015, the number of women will increase from 3 to 4, that is, for a Board of Directors composed of 12 members, 33% of the members of the Board of Directors. Renewal of the Directors The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee meets every year to review the situation of the Directors whose mandate is about to expire and proposes whether to renew certain Directors, taking into account various criteria (in particular, skills, effective contribution to the Board’s work, availability and personal commitment) and the appointment of new Directors. During fiscal year 2014, on the recommendation of the Corporate and Governance Committee, the Board of Directors proposed to submit to the shareholders at the Shareholders’ Meeting that will be held on May 26, 2015, the renewal of the mandate as Directors of Messrs. Stuart E. Eizenstat, Louis R. Hughes and Olivier Piou for a three–year duration, that is, until the end of the Shareholders’ Meeting that will be called to approve the financial statements for fiscal year ending December 31, 2017. Representation of employees In the absence of a Director representing the Company’s employees (“administrateur salarié”), the representation of the employees at the Board of Directors is ensured by the two Board Observers. Alcatel Lucent does not fulfill the conditions of the French law of June 14, 2013, and is therefore not covered by the provisions requiring the nomination of a Director representing the Company’s employees. The two Board Observers (“Censeurs”) are both employees of Alcatel Lucent, or of one of its affiliate, and members of the Alcatel-Lucent mutual fund (in French “Fonds Commun de Placement” or “FCP”) (see Section 7.1.3.2 “Operating Rules of the Board of Directors”). The FCP owns Alcatel Lucent shares and the employees of Alcatel Lucent own a beneficial interest in this fund. The mutual fund designates, among its members, a number of candidates representing twice the number of Board Observers seats to be filled in at the Board of Directors of the Company. This list is addressed to the Chairman of the Board of Directors and then, upon recommendation of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, the Board of Directors submits to the Shareholders’ Meeting the appointment of one or several Board Observers, as the case may be for a three-year mandate pursuant to Article 14 of the Bylaws. Since Mr. Bertrand Lapraye’s mandate expires at the end of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 26, 2015, the appointment of Mr. Laurent du Mouza, engineer, employee of Alcatel-Lucent Submarine Networks, will be proposed to the shareholders at this Shareholders’ Meeting, for a three-year term, that is, until the end of the Shareholders’ Meeting that will be called to approve the financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. Independence of the Directors The independence criteria selected are based on both the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code and the requirements of the NYSE. According to the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the majority of the members of the Board of Directors must be independent. According to the requirements of the NYSE and in compliance with the applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Board of Directors of a U.S. listed company must be composed of a majority of independent members. The Board of Directors must determine whether the independence criteria are met. Annual review for all the Directors On March 13, 2015, the Board of Directors, based on the declarations and questionnaires completed by the Directors, carried out the annual assessment of the situation of each Director and of the potential relationships which might exist between them and the Alcatel Lucent Group. It assessed the situation on a case-by-case basis, in accordance with the independence criteria of the AFEP-MEDEF Code and the recommendations of the NYSE. The Board of Directors relied upon the following AFEP-MEDEF Code independence criteria: · not being an executive director of the company, or of the group of which the company is a part, or having any particular relations with its executive directors; · not being an employee, executive director or director of the parent company or of a company of the group within the last five years; · not being an executive director of a company in which the company holds a directorship, directly or indirectly, or in which an employee or an executive director of the company is a director; · not being a customer, supplier, investment banker or commercial banker (a) that is material to the company or its 98 Table of Contents CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report group or (b) for which the company or its group represent a significant part of the business. The Board of Directors noted that each Director (other than the CEO and the Chairman of the Board of Directors) fulfilled the criteria above, and that the Chairman of the Board of Directors is also independent under the AFEP-MEDEF Code (see the sub-section “Chairman of the Board of Directors” below). In addition, the Board concluded that none of its Directors had close family ties with an Executive Director. The Board also noted that none of its Directors had been a Statutory Auditor of Alcatel Lucent within the last five years or has been a Director of the Company for over twelve years. On the recommendation of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, the Board of Directors concluded, based on the criteria of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, that Mrs. Carla Cico, Mrs. Kim Crawford Goodman and Mrs. Véronique Morali, as well as Messrs. Francesco Caio, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Louis R. Hughes, Jean C. Monty, Olivier Piou and Jean-Cyril Spinetta, do not have any relationship of any nature whatsoever with the Company, the Group or its Executive Directors and management that may affect their independent judgment and that therefore they are independent. Consequently, 10 out of 11 members of our Board of Directors are independent Directors. In addition, in compliance with the legal requirements and Article 5 of the Board’s Operating Rules, the Board of Directors has at least one independent Director - namely Mr. Jean C. Monty - with recognized financial and accounting expertise. Chairman of the Board of Directors On March 19, 2014, the Board of Directors examined the situation of Mr. Philippe Camus in light of the new provisions of the AFEP-MEDEF Code as revised in June 2013, which state that the Chairman of the Board of Directors, who is an Executive Director, may now be considered as an independent director subject to the satisfaction of the independence criteria provided by this Code. The Board of Directors noted that the Chairman of the Board of Directors does not have any relationship of any kind whatsoever with the Company, the Alcatel Lucent Group or its management that may affect his independent judgment. Therefore, Mr. Philippe Camus, who meets the criteria of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, is considered as an independent Director according to the criteria of the Code. Directors appointed in 2014 On July 30, 2014, the Board of Directors concluded that Mrs. Véronique Morali and Mr. Francesco Caio, nominated Directors during the Shareholders’ Meeting held on May 28, 2014, do not have any relationship of any kind whatsoever with the Company, the Alcatel Lucent Group or its management that may affect their respective judgment. Concerning Mr. Francesco Caio, CEO of the Poste Italiane, the Board of Directors concluded, after reviewing all of the transactions between Alcatel Lucent and the Poste Italiane, that the current commercial relationship between them is not material, as defined by the AFEP-MEDEF Code. The candidate to a Director position in 2015 On February 5, 2015, our Board of Directors decided to propose the appointment of Mrs Sylvia Summers for a period of three years at the next Shareholders’ Meeting. Mrs. Sylvia Summers is considered as independent, based on the information available to the Board of Directors. As a result, 11 out of 12 members would be independent at the end of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 26, 2015 based on the criteria of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. Independence within the Committees The Board of Directors determined that more than two-thirds of the Directors of the Audit and Finance Committee, the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Technology Committee are independent in accordance with the rules that it has adopted (See Section 7.1.2.1 “Principles of corporate governance,” sub-section “Independence of the Directors”). The number of independent Directors within each Committee exceeds the recommendation of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. Independence according to the NYSE Rules Pursuant to the NYSE rules, the Chairman of the Board of Directors who is an Executive Director cannot be considered an independent Director. However, the NYSE rules authorize the Company to follow the rules of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, except with respect to compliance with the criteria regarding the independence of the members of the audit committee (see Section 7.1.4.1 “Audit and Finance Committee,” subsection “Role”). The NYSE rules are more restrictive concerning the relationship with the statutory auditors of the company, since they apply not only to the concerned director but also to the immediate family members. As a consequence, Mr. Olivier Piou cannot be considered as independent under the NYSE rules since his brother is a partner at Deloitte & Associés, one of the Statutory Auditors of the Company, even if his brother is not involved with the Alcatel Lucent account. Concerning Mr. Francesco Ciao, the current commercial relationship between Alcatel Lucent and the Poste Italiane is not material for purposes of the NYSE rules (since it does not represent in excess of 2% of the Poste Italiane’s consolidated gross revenues), and consequently he is considered as independent under these rules. The NYSE rules stipulate that U.S. listed companies must have an audit committee, a nominating/corporate governance committee and a compensation committee. Each committee 99 Table of Contents 7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report must be composed solely of independent board members and must have a written charter addressing certain subjects specified in the NYSE rules. In the case of Alcatel Lucent, the Audit and Finance Committee is composed solely of independent Directors and the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and the Compensation Committee is each composed of more than two-thirds independent Directors, and each of these three Committees has a charter which defines its powers and covers most of the subjects provided for in the NYSE rules. Board of Directors evaluation Pursuant to the AFEP-MEDEF Code and our Operating Rules, the Board of Directors’ agenda calls for an annual discussion on its composition and organization. This translates into a self-assessment based on individual questionnaires, and, once every two years, into an evaluation performed with the support of an outside consultant. The Board performed an annual assessment of its own work at the beginning of 2014, under the authority of our Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee with the support of an outside consultant. The consultant met with each Director, including the CEO, and with the CFO. The results of this assessment were examined by the Board of Directors at its meeting held on March 19, 2014. The conclusions confirmed that the Board of Directors displays a satisfactory level of diversity and works coherently, with a high degree of commitment. The Board of Directors operates on the principle of independent thinking as well as of making the most of the high level of experience of its members. There is a strong cohesion of the members with the Chairman, who participates actively, challenging the participants judiciously, constructively and with tact. This creates a good environment for exchanging views and facilitates decision-making. The “Executive Sessions” are considered as very positive also and contribute highly to improving Board efficiency. On the Chairman of the Board’s initiative, the suggestions resulting from that evaluation were implemented in 2014, in the following manner: · The establishment of an integration program for incoming members of the Board, coordinated by the Board Secretary with support from representatives of various Group divisions. The program comports several sessions, in particular, covering finance, technology and governance, allowing to benefit from information on the Group’s organization and activities, the Company and its values and business model, as well as on the challenges and goals. Furthermore, an annual session dedicated to new technologies will supplement the information of all Board members. · The design of an evaluation model for the CEO, based on 3 major pillars, that is, strategy, leadership and the implementation of The Shift Plan. · The adoption of a structured annual timetable for Human Resources, covering important issues for the Group, such as key people and their succession plan, diversity, renewal and retention of talent. Additionally, joint sessions of the Compensation and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committees will be held on certain topics. · Follow-up on the implementation of the decisions of Board, which means that every meeting of the Board begins systematically with a report of the Board Secretary on this point. On February 5, 2015, pursuant to our Operating Rules, the Board of Directors met to discuss its functioning and to evaluate the results of the actions taken since the last self-evaluation concerning, in particular, the composition, the efficiency and the organization of the Board and of the Committees. The Board of Directors expressed a very favorable overall view, and noted significant progress since its last self-evaluation. The Board of Directors benefits from a satisfactory level of diversity, skills and high-level of experience of its members. The environment favors constructive debates and communication, and the interactions between the Board and its Committees, its Chairman and the CEO are balanced. The Board of Directors remains highly involved in the Group’s strategy, both in its development and in the follow-up of its implementation. This good understanding of the Group’s strategy allows the Directors to act in the Group’s interests. As a result of this self-evaluation, the Board of Directors suggested certain improvements, such as a specific focus on the way the members of the Leadership team operate and how they manage their teams in terms of organization, resources, key processes and interfaces; an increased variety in the information made available to the Board of Directors, such as reports of industry analysts, and the organization of exchanges during dedicated sessions of the Board of Directors, between the Directors and the sector analysts, clients and significant shareholders, so that they can share their views on the Company and its positioning; and lastly, access of the Board of Directors to more specific information on certain activities of the Group depending on the Board’s agenda. Ethics Each Director and Board Observer undertakes to comply with the rules of conduct set out in the Directors’ Charter, in particular concerning the compliance with any applicable securities laws, as well as with the rules “Alcatel Lucent Insider Trading Policy,” designed by Alcatel Lucent to prevent insider trading. This policy sets limited periods during which transactions involving the Company’s shares are not authorized, the minimum number of shares that each Director must hold, and the obligation to notify the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (the French securities regulator) of any personal transactions involving Alcatel Lucent shares. 100 Table of Contents CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report Absence of conflicts of interest To the knowledge of the Board of Directors: · None of the Directors have any potential conflicts of interest. In accordance with Article 3 of the Directors’ Charter: “a Director has the obligation to inform the Chairman of the Board of Directors of any situation potentially resulting for them in a conflict of interest and, if such conflict relates to a particular subject, they must refrain from participating in the vote of the corresponding resolution.” · There is no family relationship between the members of our Board of Directors and our Company’s senior management; · There is no arrangement or agreement with a shareholder, client, supplier, or any third party pursuant to which a member of our Board of Directors or of our Management Committee was appointed in such capacity or as CEO; · No Director has been convicted of fraud during the last five years; · No Director has been charged and/or received an official public sanction pronounced by a statutory or regulatory authority; or has been banned by a court from holding office as a member of an administrative, management or supervisory body of an issuer, or from being involved in the management or conduct of the business of an issuer in the last five years; · No Director has been an executive director of a company involved in a bankruptcy, court escrow or liquidation in the past five years. 7.1.2.2 Attendance fees The Chairman of the Board of Directors and the CEO do not receive any directors’ fees. The other Directors receive directors’ fees consisting of (i) a fixed portion, for performing their duties on the Board of Directors and, where relevant, on one of the Boards’ Committees, and (ii) a variable portion, for their attendance at the various meetings, in compliance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. Additional directors’ fees are equally allocated among the Directors, subject to the investment in Alcatel Lucent shares of the amount granted as additional fees after taxes, and to the holding of the acquired shares for the duration of the term of office as Director. Directors’ fees are paid each semester. The additional attendance fees tied to a commitment to acquire and hold shares in the Company are paid at the time of the second payment of the attendance fees. Breakdown of attendance fees The overall amount of Directors’ fees paid to Directors for the fiscal year 2014 was €990,000, that is, an average of €110,000 per Director: Fixed portion €395,000 Chairman of the Audit and Finance Committee €25,000 Chairman of the Compensation Committee, of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, and of the Technology Committee, and member of the Audit and Finance Committee €15,000 Committee member (other than member of the Audit and Finance Committee) who is a member of the Board of Directors €10,000 Allocated equally among the directors balance Variable portion allocated according to attendance at meetings €395,000 Additional portion €200,000 TOTAL €990,000 The total fees paid to the Board Observers for fiscal year 2014 were €100,000. 101 Table of Contents 7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report In application of the rules provided above, the Directors’ fees and other compensation received by each Director and by each Board Observer during fiscal year 2014, and their total compensation during fiscal year 2014 were as follows: In Euro 2013 2014 Directors Total Gross Total Gross Amountreceived asmember of aCommittee Amountreceived asChairman of aCommittee Mr. Bernard 121,044 44,238 7,500 7,500 Mr. Caio N/A 52,789 5,000 Mrs. Cico 87,254 86,373 10,000 Mr. Eizenstat 112,746 110,426 20,000 Mrs. Goodman 87,722 97,905 17,500 Mr. Hughes 117,638 125,426 20,000 15,000 Lady Jay 110,575 44,576 10,000 Mr. Monty 110,935 109,042 5,000 25,000 Mrs. Morali N/A 52,789 5,000 Mr. Piou 120,575 131,810 30,000 Mr. Spinetta 121,511 134,626 15,000 15,000 TOTAL 990,000 990,000 145,000 70,000 Board Observers Mr. Lapraye 50,735 50,000 Mr. Le Dissez 29,780 50,000 Mr. Desbois 19,485 N/A The compensation specified in the table above is the only compensation paid to the Directors by Alcatel Lucent and its subsidiaries during fiscal years 2013 and 2014, except for the amounts paid to the Executive Directors described in Section 8.2 “Status of the Executive Directors and Officers.” No Director, except the Chairman of the Board of Directors, holds any stock options, performance shares or other securities giving access to the capital of the Company. In addition, there are no commitments towards the Directors, except for the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the CEO, that constitute compensation, allowances or benefits due or likely to be due as a result of the termination or change of duties. The Directors also benefit from the Group’s “Directors and Officers” civil liability insurance that covers all the executive officers and members of boards of directors of the Group. 7.1.2.3 AFEP-MEDEF Code and NYSE Rules Alcatel Lucent is compliant with the AFEP-MEDEF Code (see MEDEF website: www.medef.fr). At its meetings on October 29 and December 11, 2008, the Board of Directors confirmed, and then published its adherence to these principles, which govern, among other things, the operating rules of the Board of Directors and its Committees, as described in the Board of Directors’ Operating Rules. Our corporate governance policy reflects the principles of the AFEP-MEDEF Code to the extent that those principles are in line with the organization, the situation and the means of the Company. Such is not the case on the two following points: AFEP-MEDEF Code Alcatel Lucent’s position Reasonable requirements of seniority within the company, for at least two years, to benefit from payments from a pension plan with defined benefits The pension plan does not include any provision regarding the seniority but the rights vest gradually by year of seniority (with respect to Mr. Michel Combes, the reference period for the calculation of the pension’s benefit is the total duration of one or more terms of office of Mr. Michel Combes as Chief Executive Officer) and represent, each year, only a limited percentage of his compensation (approximately 1% per year for a compensation of €1.2 million per year; beyond this amount the potential pension would amount to approximately 1.2%). 102 Table of Contents CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report AFEP-MEDEF Code Alcatel Lucent’s position Criterion according to which the benefit of an additional pension scheme shall be conditioned to the completion of the career of the beneficiary in the company In line with what is provided for the other beneficiaries of the additional pension scheme, the benefit of an additional pension scheme for the Chief Executive Officer is not subject to his presence in the Company. However, the Board of Directors has determined both quantitative and qualitative performance criteria to which the rights of the Chief Executive Officer under the pension plan at the end of his position are conditioned. The benefit of this pension commitment is based on three quantitative performance criteria up to 75% (individually 25%) and two qualitative criteria up to 25% (individually 12.5%). Over the reference period, the global performance rate will be calculated based on the achievement level of the criteria in order to determine the rights of the Chief Executive Officer under this pension commitment (see Section 8.2.3 “Chief Executive Officer”). Since our securities are listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), we make every effort to reconcile the principles of the AFEP-MEDEF Code with the NYSE rules on corporate governance that are applicable to us, as well as with the provisions of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which came into force in 2002. Where relevant, we specify throughout Chapter 7 the main ways in which our corporate governance practices comply with, or differ from, these provisions. The two corporate governance criteria of the AFEP-MEDEF Code mentioned above are not included in the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE, or in the requirements of any other U.S. regulation applicable to Alcatel Lucent. 7.1.3 Powers and activity of the Board of Directors 7.1.3.1 The Board of Directors In addition to matters related to its legal or regulatory function, the Board of Directors regularly decides upon the Group’s strategic orientations and the main decisions affecting its activities. It also analyzes the outlook resulting from the research and development activities of Alcatel Lucent and gives input on the main technology options chosen. Furthermore, the Board of Directors monitors the economic and financial management of the Group and authorizes the financial transactions which have a significant impact on its accounts. The Operating Rules of the Board of Directors specify the conditions according to which the Directors exercise their functions and, in particular, the thresholds above which the decisions of the CEO are subject to the prior approval of the Board of Directors. 7.1.3.2 Operating rules of the Board of Directors The Directors of Alcatel Lucent (hereafter the “Company”) have enacted the following which constitutes the internal regulation of the Board of Directors, in order to define its operating procedures and its role according to the rules of corporate governance in force. These rules, approved by the Board of Directors are primarily intended to: · define the role of the Board vis-à-vis the shareholders on the one hand, and the Chief Executive Officer (“Directeur Général”) on the other hand, by clarifying the existing provisions of the law and of the Company’s by-laws and the position of its members; · maximize the efficiency of meetings and debates, in particular by specifying the role of the Chairman, and develop the proper procedures of the bodies that oversee the administration of the Company, in the spirit of the Company’s corporate governance policy. These rules are purely internal and are not intended to be a substitute for the applicable provisions of the law and the Company’s bylaws, but, rather, are intended to implement the bylaws in a practical manner, and consequently may not be held against the Company, third parties or the shareholders. These rules will be disclosed to the shareholders as part of the report of the Board at the Shareholders’ Meeting. The following is a full transcription of the Operating Rules of our Board of Directors: 103 Table of Contents 7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report Section I The Board’s role Article 1 Deliberations of the Board In addition to matters related to its legal or regulatory function, the Board shall regularly decide upon, among other things, the group’s strategic orientations and the main decisions affecting its activities. This relates in particular to the projects of important investments of organic growth and the operations of internal reorganizations, major acquisitions and divestitures of shares and assets, transactions or commitments that may significantly affect the financial results of the group or considerably modify the structure of its balance sheet and the strategic alliances and financial cooperation agreements. Article 2 Decisions subjected to the prior approval of the Board The Chief Executive Officer must submit to the prior approval of the Board the following decisions: · the update of the Group’s annual strategic plans, and any significant strategic operation not envisaged by these plans; · the Group’s annual budget and annual capital expenditure plan; · acquisitions or divestitures in an amount higher than 300 million euro (enterprise value); · capital expenditures in an amount higher than 300 million euro; · offers and commercial contracts of strategic importance in an amount higher than 1 billion euros; · any significant strategic alliances and industrial and financial cooperation agreements with annual projected revenues in excess of 200 million euro, in particular if they imply a significant shareholding by a third party in the capital of the Company; · financial transactions having a significant impact on the accounts of the group, in particular the issuance of debt securities in amounts greater than 400 million euro, · amendments to the National Security Agreement (“NSA”) between Alcatel, Lucent Technologies, Inc. and certain United States Government parties. Article 3 Information of the Board The Board of Directors shall be regularly informed, either by its Chairman or through its committees, of any significant occurrence in the Company’s operations. The Board is also entitled at all times, including between meetings focused on the review of the financial statements, to become acquainted with any significant change affecting the Company’s financial condition, cash position and commitments. Board materials should be received and at the disposal of the Board members before each meeting and no later than the Friday (COB) preceding the Board meeting. The management should give a regular read-out to the Board on execution of previous Board decisions. Section II The Members Article 4 Independence The Board of Directors shall define the criteria that a Director must meet in order to be deemed “independent”, this definition shall be in accordance with the principles of corporate governance applicable to the Company. The Board of Directors shall ensure that the proportion of “independent” directors is at all times greater than half the members of the Board and shall take action as soon as possible to replace Directors, if necessary. By definition, an “independent” director has no direct or indirect relationships of any nature whatsoever with the Company, its Group or its management of a nature that could compromise the free exercise of his or her judgment. Article 5 Expertise Board members will be selected so as to bring a diversity of competencies, especially with respect to technology, finance, human resources, the emerging markets, as well as a connection with academia and the government agencies community (in view of the Company’s highly classified work). At least one of the “independent” members of the Board of Directors shall have financial expertise. The members of the Board will participate in training programs regarding the specificities of the Company, its activities and its industry sector that may be arranged by the Company from time to time. An annual briefing on new technologies is included in the agenda of the Board of Directors. An induction program is presented to new Board members with an emphasis on finance, technology and governance. Article 6 Other Directorships In order for the Directors to have and dedicate the time and attention necessary to carry out their responsibilities, the Board of Directors shall ensure that none of its members violates the legal restrictions regarding the holding of multiple offices. A non-executive Director should not hold more than four other 104 Table of Contents CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report directorships in listed corporations, including foreign corporations, not affiliated with his or her group. The Director should keep the Board informed of directorships held in other companies, including his/her participation on committees of the Board of these companies, both in France and abroad. By exception, an executive director should not hold more than 2 other directorships in listed corporations not affiliated with the Group. He/she must also seek the opinion of the Board of Directors, which is based on a recommendation of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, before accepting a new directorship in a listed corporation. Article 7 Compensation The Directors will receive attendance fees. The annual amount to be received is determined by the shareholders’ meeting. This amount comprises the following components: (i) Fixed element The first portion will be a fixed amount and will be divided according to the following rules: · the chairman of the Audit & Finance Committee will receive an annual amount of €25,000; · each other member of the Audit & Finance Committee will receive an annual amount of €15,000; · the chairman of each of the other three committees will receive an annual amount of €15,000; · each other member of the other three committees will receive an annual amount of €10,000; and · the remainder of this first portion will be divided equally among the Directors. (ii) Variable element The second portion is a variable amount and will be divided among the Directors in accordance with their attendance at Board meetings and at any meetings of the committees of which they are member. (iii) Attendance fees tied to a commitment to acquire and hold Company shares The amount of the additional element is to be divided equally among the Directors and payment is tied to a commitment by each director to acquire and retain shares in the Company. Each Director shall use the amount received, after taxes calculated on a flat rate of a 40%, to acquire shares in the Company and shall hold the same throughout the term of office of the Director with the Company. The acquisition of the shares must be accomplished as soon as possible following each payment, subject to the rules of conduct regarding insider trading prevention. The shares acquired shall be held in a separate account, registered in the name of the Director. The Secretary shall receive from the holder of the Company’s registered securities a copy of each director’s avis d’opéré which indicates the conditions of the execution of the order and the payment modalities. A copy of the declaration of the share transaction is to be sent to the French Financial Market Authority (“AMF”), within the prescribed statutory period. The Secretary then puts said declaration on the Company’s website. Attendance fees will be paid in two installments, one after the annual shareholders meeting and the second at the end of the year. The attendance fees tied to a commitment to acquire and hold shares in the Company shall be paid at the same time as the payment of the second installment of attendance fees. The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and any Directors who are Executive Officers of the Company will not receive any attendance fees. Board observers The Board observers will receive a compensation as determined by the annual shareholders meeting, to be divided between them and paid according to the same rules as applicable to the Directors’ fees. Section III The Chairman Article 8 Role of the Chairman and Vice Chairman The Chairman of the Board (hereafter “the Chairman”) shall prepare the agenda and the Board meeting calendar, request any document and/or information in order to prepare the Board meetings, organize and manage the tasks of the Board and announce the outcome thereof at the General Shareholders’ meeting. He shall watch over the correct operations of the corporate bodies of the Company and especially those of the Board’s Committees. He shall ensure that the Directors are able to perform their assignments, in particular those that stem from the committees to which they belong. He shall take care that the formulation and implementation of the principles of the corporate governance of Company are of the highest standard. The Chairman is the only person who can act and speak on behalf of the Board of Directors. 105 Table of Contents 7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report With the approval of the Chief Executive Officer, he may represent the group in high level relationships, in particular with the authorities, in national and international arenas. The Chairman may be assisted by a Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, who can exercise the prerogatives stated in this article, within the framework of the missions that may be entrusted to him by the Board of Directors. Article 9 Information of the Chairman and Vice Chairman – Office of the Chairman The Chairman shall be regularly informed by the Chief Executive Officer of the significant events and positions regarding the activities of the Group; he shall receive all useful information for the performance of the Board’s tasks and those necessary for the establishment of the internal audit’s report. The Chairman may meet with the external auditors. The Chairman may attend as advisor the meetings of the Committees of the Board in which he is not member, and may seek their advice on any question that falls within their jurisdiction. The General Counsel, in his Board Secretary mission, will report to the Chairman. He or she will assist the Chairman in organizing board meetings, shareholders’ meetings and discharging any other duties associated with governance items linked to the nationality of the Company. The Secretary and the Deputy Secretary to the Board permanently attend the Board meetings. The Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors can exercise the prerogatives stated in this article, within the framework of the missions that may be entrusted to him by the Board of Directors. Section IV Operating procedures of the Board Article 10 Meetings The Board of Directors shall meet on notice of the Chairman, at least once during each quarter, at the registered office of the Company or at any other place, in France or abroad, as shall be set forth in the applicable notice of meeting, in order to consider collectively the matters that are submitted to it. In principle, there will be six main board meetings, four of them primarily dedicated to the review of financial statements, one to strategy matters and one to the yearly budget. On a regular basis, the Board will meet in “executive sessions” attended by non-executive Directors only. The Board Observers are convened and participate on a consultative basis to the meetings of the Board of Directors as well as of the Committees. Members of the management can participate, if invited by the CEO, to the Board meetings except during the session dedicated to the reports of the Chairman of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and of the Chairman of the Compensation Committee. Article 11 Participation The Directors may participate in the meetings of the Board by means of telecommunication as authorized by the articles of association and by-laws. In such event, they will be considered to be present for the purpose of calculating the applicable quorum and majority requirements except with respect to votes regarding the Company’s statutory financial statements, the yearly consolidated financial statements and the annual report. As prescribed by the applicable legal requirements, board meetings that are held by video-conference or other telecommunication media must be carried through technical means that ensure the proper identification of the parties, the confidentiality of the discussions and the real-time effective participation of all the Directors present at any such meetings of the Board, and the transmission of the discussions shall be done in a continuous manner. The secretary of the Board of Directors shall initial the attendance sheet on behalf of the directors who attend meetings of the Board via video-conference or other telecommunication media (as well as for the Directors for whom they act as proxy). Article 12 Annual evaluations The Board shall meet once a year to discuss its operating procedures, after each Board member having answered an evaluation questionnaire. It shall also meet once a year to consider the performance of the Executive Officers of the Company, and no Director who are either officer or employee of the Company shall attend such meetings. To this effect, the Chairman shall report back to the Board on the CEO annual evaluation according to a model previously determined. The Board of Directors may, at any time, and at least once every two years, engage an outside consultant to evaluate its performance. The Board of Directors will be presented with an annual evaluation of the Leadership team members including as to their succession and compensation. Article 13 Expenses The members of the Board shall be reimbursed, upon presentation of receipts signed by the Chief Financial Officer for travel expenses as well as for other expenses incurred by them in the interests of the Company. 106 Table of Contents CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report Section V Information of the board Article 14 The Committees In the course of carrying out its various responsibilities, the Board of Directors may create specialized Committees, composed of directors appointed by the Board, that review matters within the scope of the Board’s responsibilities and submit to the Board their opinions and proposals, in accordance with the internal rules governing such committees. The Board of Directors shall have the following standing committees: the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Audit and Finance Committee and the Technology Committee. Each committee shall have no less than three Directors, and shall be chaired by such Director among the members of the committee as shall be appointed by the Board of Directors. Each committee shall submit reports regarding the matters reviewed by it to the Board of Directors, which is the only body that can make any decision regarding such matters. The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer may attend as advisors the meetings of the committees of the Board in which they are not members (except meetings of the Committees dealing with their personal situations). The meetings of the Committees are open to all Directors who are not members of the Committees subject to informing the Chairman of each Committee beforehand. Article 15 Right to information from the Executive Officers In order to efficiently oversee the management of the Company, the members of the Board may, through the Chairman or after having informed him, request the opinion of the executive officers of the Group on any matter they deem appropriate. They may, under the same conditions, meet such officers without the presence of any directors who are Executive Officers. The members of the Board shall have the right to require the Chief Executive Officer, through the Chairman or after having informed him, to provide them, within a reasonable period of time, with such information as shall be necessary to permit such members to comply with their assignment. In order to assist them in the fulfillment of their duties, the members of the Board shall receive all relevant information regarding the Company, including press articles and reports by financial analysts. Article 16 Transparency The Board of Directors shall ensure the openness of its activities to the shareholders of the Company by presenting each year, in the annual report, a statement regarding its activities during the fiscal year just ended, and regarding the operation of the Board and its committees. Section VI Role and actions of the committees Article 17 Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee The mission of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee shall be to review matters relating to the composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors and its committees, to identify and make proposals to the Board regarding individuals qualified to serve as directors of the Company and on committees of the Board of Directors; to develop and recommend to the Board of Directors a set of corporate governance principles applicable to the Company; and to oversee the evaluations of the Board of Directors and committees thereof. The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee will also review succession plans for the Chief Executive Officer as well as for members of the Leadership team. Article 18 Compensation Committee The mission of the Compensation Committee shall be to review matters relating to and make proposals to the Board regarding the compensation of the Directors, the executive Directors, that is the Chairman, the Vice Chairman and the Chief Executive, to consider the long-term compensation mechanisms and specifically the grants of performance shares and stock-options, and to examine any proposal to increase the share capital of the Company by an offering made exclusively to its employees. The Chairman and the majority of the members of the Compensation Committee are independent. Article 19 Audit and Finance Committee The Audit and Finance Committee shall review the accounts to be submitted to the Board, the accounting norms used by the Company and shall ensure the proper and consistent use of accounting methods. It shall verify the internal control mechanisms and shall examine significant risks including off-balance sheet obligations as well as any other matter of a financial or accounting nature that shall be submitted to the committee by the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief Financial Officer of the Company. The Audit and Finance Committee shall carry out the procedure for the selection of the Company’s auditors and any reappointment of such auditors, and shall decide what engagements may be undertaken by the auditors in addition to auditing the accounts of the Company. 107 Table of Contents 7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report The audit and finance committee shall examine the Company’s debt and equity capitalization and any significant changes related to it. Article 20 Technology Committee The mission of the Technology Committee is to review, on behalf of the Board, the major technological options that are the basis of R&D work and the launching of new products. The Technology Committee will be kept informed of the development of Alcatel-Lucent’s scientific and technical co-operation projects with the academic and research environment. 7.1.3.3 Organization of Board meetings Pursuant to the Operating Rules that govern the operation of our Board of Directors, the Board of Directors meets at least once every quarter. However, in practice, the Board of Directors meets more frequently, illustrating the commitment of its Chairman and the Directors to the Company. To facilitate attendance, the Directors may attend the meetings by video conference or other means of telecommunication, and in such event, they are taken into account in the calculation of the quorum and majority, except where otherwise provided by law (see Article 11 of the Operating Rules of the Board of Directors in Section 7.1.3.2). If a Director considers that he is actually or potentially in a conflict of interest situation, he must notify the Chairman of the Board and refrain from voting the corresponding resolution. Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings in 2014 Meetings of the Board of Directors andCommittees in 2014 Board Audit andFinanceCommittee CorporateGouvernance andNominatingCommittee CompensationCommittee TechnologyCommittee Mr. Bernard (1) 3 2 2 Mr. Caio (2) 5 3 Mr. Camus 10 Mrs. Cico 10 5 Mr. Combes 10 Mr. Eizenstat 10 5 6 Mrs. Goodman 10 2 5 Mr. Hughes 8 5 3 5 Lady Jay (1) 4 2 3 Mr. Monty 10 4 2 Mrs. Morali (2) 5 3 Mr. Piou 10 5 6 5 Mr. Spinetta 10 5 3 6 Mr. Lapraye 10 5 5 6 4 Mr. Le Dissez 10 5 5 6 5 TOTAL NUMBERS OF MEETINGS: 10 5 5 6 5 OVERALL ATTENDANCE RATE 96% 90% 96% 100% 100% (1) Mr. Daniel Bernard and Lady Sylvia Jay were members of the Board of Directors until the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 28, 2014, date on which the positions they held in the Committees of which they were members also ended. (2) Mr. Francesco Caio and Mrs. Véronique Morali are members of the Board of Directors since the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 28, 2014. Board meetings are usually held at the Group’s head office in Boulogne-Billancourt, or in the United States, in Murray Hill (New Jersey), at the head office of Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. However, meetings can also be held regularly at other sites of the Group with a view of facilitating the dialog between the executives, employees and Directors and enabling the Directors to better understand the wide range of business activities of the Group, as well as the specific challenges the Group is facing in its main markets. For the same purpose, the Directors may also seek the opinion of the senior management within the Group on any subject they deem appropriate, and meet with them in an informal way at the meetings held most of the time before the Board of Directors meetings. The Directors also regularly meet with the employees of the Group, in particular with those with strong career potential. To assist them in the performance of their duties, the members of the Board receive all relevant information regarding the Company, in particular, the financial analysis reports. This information is made available to the Directors via a secured Intranet site dedicated to the Board members. 108 Table of Contents CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report In addition, the meetings of the Board of Directors are usually preceded by a meeting of one or more of the four specialized Committees. In particular, the quarterly Board meetings that prepare the year-end, half-year and quarterly financial statements are systematically preceded by a review of the financial statements by the Audit and Finance Committee. The Audit and Finance Committee may invite to its meetings the Chief Financial Officer of the Group and members of his team, as well as the members of the Disclosure Committee, in or out of the presence of the Chairman of the Board of Directors or of the executives of the Group. It may also convene, at the end of each meeting and separately, the head of internal audit and the Statutory Auditors, without the attendance of the executives of the Group. Due to scheduling issues and the distant location of certain Directors, the Board of Directors tries to arrange for the Audit and Finance Committee meetings and the Board of Directors meetings to take place within two consecutive days, while making sure that the Directors have sufficient time to adequately review the documents and information. In compliance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code, at the end of most of the Board of Directors’ meetings, the Chairman leads a discussion among the Directors without the attendance of the CEO and of executives and employees invited to attend the meetings. At the end of most of the Board of Directors’ meetings, the Chairman leads a discussion without the attendance of the CEO and of executives and employees invited to attend the meetings In this respect, we also comply with the NYSE rules, which stipulate that the Board of Directors must meet regularly without its executive members. In particular, Article 12 of the Operating Rules provides that the Board of Directors shall meet without the Directors who are also executives or employees of the Company in order to assess the performance of the Executive Directors. Participation in the Committee meetings The Chairman of the Board of Directors, the CEO and the Directors who are not members of a Committee may attend the meetings with a consultative vote, except for the meetings of the Compensation Committee and the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee during which their personal situation is being discussed. Participation of the Board Observers In accordance with Article 14 of the Alcatel Lucent bylaws, the Board Observers are convened to the meetings of the Board of Directors and they participate on a consultative basis including the meetings of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and of the Compensation Committee. Upon the recommendations of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, the Board of Directors extended the participation of the Board Observers to the meetings of all the Committees. The Board Observers already participated in the meetings of the Audit and Finance Committee and of the Technology Committee. This participation is in line with the new provisions of the AFEP-MEDEF Code which recommend that a director representing the employees participate in the meetings of the compensation committee. 7.1.3.4 Activity of the Board of Directors in 2014 and early 2015 The Board of Directors met 10 times during fiscal year 2014, with an average attendance rate of 96 % and twice in early 2015, with an attendance rate of 96%. The main topics addressed by the Board of Directors were as follows: Group strategy and transformation of the Group The Board of Directors examined the implementation of previously defined strategic guidelines, and the orientations underlying The Shift Plan for 2014 and 2015. Thus, it made sure of the continuation of the transformation of the Group in accordance with The Shift Plan announced on June 19, 2013 and reviewed the main measures taken to ensure the successful adaptation and streamlining of the Group’s structures, procedures, and production resources. Furthermore, it monitored the sale of our subsidiary LGS Innovations LLC, as well as the sale of Alcatel-Lucent Enterprise to China Huaxin (see Section 4.2 “History and Development”). It also approved clear operational and financial targets, both in terms of results and cash flow generation, in the context of the refocusing implemented by the Leadership team (See Section 7.1.1.3 “The Leadership team and the Management Committee”). Moreover, the Board was regularly informed about the significant contracts concerning the Group, as well as on the current transactions. Financial statements and financial position The Board of Directors reviewed and approved the Alcatel Lucent and consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year 2013, which were then approved at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 28, 2014. It also approved the Group’s budget for 2015. Moreover, at the Board meeting of February 5, 2015, in accordance with the Audit and Finance Committee’s recommendations and in the presence of the Statutory Auditors, the Board of Directors approved the financial and consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year 2014 which will be submitted to the shareholders for approval at the next Shareholders’ Meeting, scheduled for May 26, 2015. The Board of Directors proposed to allocate the results to the retained earnings account and to maintain the suspension of the distribution of dividends for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014. 109 Table of Contents 7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report Moreover, after having been informed thereon by the Audit and Finance Committee, the Board of Directors reviewed the cash flow, pension fund management, and the Group’s overall financial situation, as well as the contemplated evolution of the situation. It examined the risks that the Group is facing and the measures implemented under the Enterprise Risk Management program, and also approved the Chairman’s corporate governance and internal control and risk management reports produced for the fiscal years 2013 and 2014. On June 1, 2014, the Board of Directors approved the issuance of bonds convertible and/or exchangeable for new or existing shares in two tranches (OCEANE 2019 and 2020). This financial transaction, which was launched on the same date by the CEO, was part of The Shift Plan and aimed at allowing for the repayment of all or a portion of the Senior Secured Credit Facility in an initial principal amount of US$1,750 million entered into by Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. on January 30, 2013, and secured by various first-rank pledges. On August 20, 2014, Alcatel Lucent announced the anticipated repayment of the remaining U.S.$1,724 million outstanding of the Senior Secured Credit Facility and the release of all of the related security. Corporate governance The Board of Directors continued to oversee the functioning of the Company’s management bodies and to ensure that the Company complies with best corporate governance practices. In 2014, it proposed to the shareholders the nomination of two new Directors: Mrs. Véronique Morali and Mr. Francesco Caio. In 2015, the Board will submit the nomination of Mrs. Sylvia Summers as a new Director to a vote of the shareholders during the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 26, 2015, and the renewal of the terms of office of three Directors (see Section 7.1.2.1 “Principles of corporate governance”). Pursuant to our Operating Rules, the Board of Directors performed an annual evaluation of its operation at the beginning of 2015, under the supervision of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee. The results of this evaluation were examined by the Board of March 13, 2015 (see Section 7.1.2.1 “Principles of corporate governance”). The Board also assessed its operation based on a study carried out by an external consultant during 2014 (see Section 7.1.2.1 “Principles of corporate governance”). The Board also reviewed, in compliance with the Operating Rules, the independence of the Directors in light of the AFEP-MEDEF Code and the NYSE rules (see Section 7.1.2.1 “Principles of corporate governance”). The Board of Directors also made sure that shareholders were appropriately informed through a detailed presentation by the CEO and by the Chairman of the Board of Directors on the Group’s situation and its governance during the Shareholders’ Meeting on May 28, 2014. The Board of Directors also made sure that the investors and the public receive appropriate information pursuant to the provisions of the French and U.S. stock exchange regulations. As in the previous years, the Board of Directors endeavored to ensure that the Company complies with the strictest principles regarding ethics and professional conduct and abides by the rules and regulations applicable in the countries in which it operates. At the CEO’s initiative, like last year, all the employees throughout the Group were asked to acknowledge individually the principles set forth in the Group’s Code of Conduct. In addition, the Board of Directors heard the Monitor appointed in agreement with the French and U.S. authorities in the context of the settlement agreements entered into by our Company with respect to the U.S. anti-corruption legislation (See Section 4.2 “History and Development”) who provided an update of his mission to the Board of Directors with respect to the year 2014. The Monitor met individually with most of the Directors, as well as with the CEO and many other executives of the Group on multiple occasions. He delivered his year 3 report in early 2014, which contained a number of recommendations to improve the Group’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. The Leadership team and the Monitor had regular exchanges throughout the year 2014 regarding the implementation of his recommendations and the positive progress made by the Company. On December 8, 2014, the Monitor submitted his final report and certified that Alcatel-Lucent’s compliance program, including its specific policies and procedures, is reasonably designed and implemented to prevent and detect violations of anti-corruption laws, as defined in by the deferred prosecution agreement (“DPA”) signed by Alcatel Lucent with the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) (see Section 3.2 “Legal Risks”). Following receipt of the Monitor’s final report, the DOJ filed a motion to dismiss with prejudice the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act charges underlying the DPA, which the court granted on February 9, 2015. Human resources and compensation policy The Board of Directors was regularly informed of the main orientations of the Group’s policy regarding human resources and compensation. In particular, it approved the performance criteria relating to the determination of the variable compensation of employees and executives, and reviewed the global amounts paid as a result. Also, the Board of Directors determined the performance reviews for the employees and Executive Directors performance share plans and for the stock option plans, and set the Group’s performance criteria and the targets related to the performance criteria (see Chapter 8 “Compensation and long term incentives”). In the context of the new authorization granted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 28, 2014, in order to grant performance shares, the Board of Directors decided, during its meeting of September 15, 2014, to create a performance share plan (see Section “8.1.2 Performance shares”). Moreover, the Board of Directors determined the components of the compensation of Mr. Michel Combes as CEO. It also carried out a performance review of the Performance Units granted in 2013 and 2014 (see Chapter 8 “Compensation and long term incentives”). With respect to the compensation of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Board decided to re-examine all of the components of his remuneration, which had remained unchanged since he took office on October 1, 2008. The Board of Directors consequently set his compensation for the fiscal years 2014 and 2015. 110 Table of Contents CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report In addition, the Board discussed the policy regarding equal opportunity and compensation for men and women. 7.1.4 Powers and activity of the Board of Directors’ Committees The Board of Directors has four specialized Committees: the Audit and Finance Committee, the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Technology Committee. Each Committee has its own operating rules approved by the Board. Each Committee reports to the Board of Directors, which has sole authority to take decisions concerning the subjects presented to it. 7.1.4.1 Audit and Finance Committee The Audit and Finance Committee met five times during fiscal year 2014, with an average attendance rate of 90%, and twice in early 2015, with an attendance rate of 100%. Members This Committee comprises no less than four members, at least one of whom must have recognized financial or accounting expertise. Beyond the requirements of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Committee’s operating rules provide that all the Directors who serve on the Committee must be “independent” and that the Committee may not include any executive director (in French, “mandataire social”). Similarly, Directors who hold other executive positions within the Company may not be members of this Committee. This Committee is comprised of Mr. Jean C. Monty, Mrs. Kim Crawford Goodman (since July 30, 2014), Mr. Louis R. Hughes and Mr. Jean-Cyril Spinetta. All members are independent according to the criteria retained by the Board of Directors, which are based on both the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code and the requirements of the NYSE (See Section 7.1.2 “Principles of organization of our Company’s Management”). Mr. Daniel Bernard was also part of this Committee until the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 28, 2014. Mr. Gilles Le Dissez and Mr. Bertrand Lapraye, Board Observers, also participate in the works of the Committee. On March 13, 2015, the Board of Directors confirmed Mr. Jean C. Monty as the financial expert of the Audit and Finance Committee. Role The main areas of activity of the Committee relate to: · the financial statements, · the internal control and risk management, · the financial situation, as well as the relations with our Statutory Auditors. It keeps the Board of Directors apprised of the performance of its duties and informs it promptly of any issue it may encounter. The Audit and Finance Committee’s role and method of operation meet the requirements of Article L. 823-19 of the French Commercial Code as well as the best practices recommended by various French reports on corporate governance. The NYSE rules contain detailed requirements with respect to the composition and the operation of the audit committees of U.S. listed companies. For foreign issuers, these requirements are limited to the compliance with the rules relating to audit committees of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Since July 31, 2005, foreign private issuers are required to have an audit committee that satisfies the requirements of Rule 10A-3 of the Exchange Act. Pursuant to Rule 10A-3, each member of the audit committee must be independent in accordance with the SEC criteria. The Audit and Finance Committee currently comprises four independent members in compliance with the above-mentioned provision. In addition, Rule 10A-3 provides that the audit committee must have direct responsibility for the appointment, compensation and choice of the statutory auditors, as well as control over the performance of their duties, management of complaints made, and selection of consultants. The Group believes that its Audit and Finance Committee is currently compliant with Rule 10A-3. However, it should be noted that under French law, the appointment of the statutory auditors must be decided by the shareholders at the Shareholders’ Meeting. Additionally, French law requires listed companies to appoint two sets of principal Statutory Auditors and two sets of alternate Statutory Auditors. They are appointed for six fiscal years and can only be revoked by a court ruling for professional negligence or incapacity to perform their duties. These rules are compatible with the Exchange Act. While Alcatel Lucent is not subject to the other NYSE rules on audit committees, a number of the requirements in the NYSE rules are similar to Rule 10 A-3, and Alcatel Lucent considers that its Audit and Finance Committee is substantially in line with the requirements of the NYSE rules. Financial statements The role of the Audit and Finance Committee, as defined by the Board of Directors’ Operating Rules, is to review the accounting standards used by the Company, the Company’s risks and significant off-balance sheet commitments, and any financial or accounting matters presented to it by the CEO or the Chief Financial Officer. The Committee reviews and approves the appropriateness and consistency of the accounting methods used to prepare the consolidated and parent company financial statements, as well as the proper accounting treatment of the significant transactions at the Group level. The Committee reviews the scope of consolidation and, where relevant, the reasons why certain companies should not be consolidated. 111 Table of Contents 7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report It reviews the accounting standards which are applicable to and applied by our Group, both according to IFRS and French GAAP (the latter with respect to the parent company’s financial statements), as well as their effects and the resulting differences in accounting treatment. It examines the Alcatel Lucent and the consolidated quarterly, half-year and year-end financial statements and the Group’s budgets. Internal control and risk management The Audit and Finance Committee verifies that internal procedures for collecting and reviewing financial information are in place to ensure the reliability of this information. The Committee ensures that a process to identify and analyze risks exists, in particular for risks that are likely to have a material impact on accounting and financial reporting. The head of the Internal Audit Department within the Group periodically reports to the Committee on the results of the work of his/her department. In addition, twice a year, the Committee reviews the Group’s internal audit plan and the method of operation and organization of the Internal Audit Department. The Committee is consulted on the selection of the head of the Internal Audit Department and on his/her potential replacement. The Committee reviews any complaint, alert or other report, including those submitted anonymously, that reveal a potential malfunction in the financial and consolidation process set up within the Group. The Audit and Finance Committee meets periodically with our Chief Compliance Officer to check the adequacy of our compliance programs, any potential significant violations of these programs and the corrective measures taken by us. Financial information The Audit and Finance Committee also reviews our Group’s indebtedness, its capitalization and any possible changes to this capitalization, as well as any financial or accounting matters presented to it by the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Chief Financial Officer (such as risk coverage and centralized treasury management). It also reviews any financial transactions having a significant impact on the Group’s financial statements, such as any issuance of securities in excess of €400 million, which must be approved by the Board of Directors. Statutory Auditors Our Audit and Finance Committee oversees the selection process for the Statutory Auditors, in compliance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code and makes recommendations on the choice of such Auditors to the Board of Directors. Assignments, if any, that do not pertain to the audit of the accounts, or that are neither incidental nor directly supplemental to such audit, but which are not incompatible with the functions of the Statutory Auditors, must be authorized by the Audit and Finance Committee, regardless of their significance. The Committee ensures that these assignments do not violate, in particular, the provisions of Article L. 822-11 of the French Commercial Code. The Audit and Finance Committee also reviews and determines the independence of the Statutory Auditors and issues an opinion on the fees due for their audit of the financial statements. Based on the total amount of fees paid for the audit of the financial statements during a given fiscal year, the Committee sets the limit(s) of fees beyond which the Committee must give a specific authorization for previously authorized assignments. The Committee’s work in 2014 and early 2015 At each meeting, the Committee was briefed by the Chief Financial Officer and the Statutory Auditors and reviewed, in the Statutory Auditors’ presence, the key points discussed with the Chief Financial Officer during the preparation of the financial statements. The Committee conducted a review of the Company and consolidated financial statements for fiscal years 2013 and 2014 and the half-year and quarterly consolidated financial statements for fiscal year 2014. It also performed a specific review of certain notes to the financial statements. To prepare for this review, the Committee relied in particular on the work of the Disclosure Committee created to ensure the reliability of the information disclosed by the Group. On several occasions, the Committee has considered the consequences of the main agreements and other commitments of the Group, and the major elements of its financial position, in particular its capitalization, its debt and the status of its pension funds. To this end, the Committee has issued recommendations in 2014 on various projects of financial transactions by the Company (see Section 7.1.3.4 “Activity of the Board of Directors in 2014 and early 2015”) or its subsidiary Alcatel Lucent USA Inc., under The Shift Plan, in particular: The issuance of OCEANE 2019 and 2020 for an amount of €1,148 million, the redemption of the OCEANE 2016 and the early reimbursement of the remaining outstanding amount under the Senior Secured Credit Facility, entered into on January 30, 2013. The Committee also reviewed the Group’s budget for 2015 and the draft resolutions relating to the financial authorizations to be submitted to the shareholders at the Shareholders’ Meeting on May 26, 2015. It also reviewed the financial sections of the reference document and the 20-F Form for 2013 and for 2014, as well as parts of the report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors on internal control and risk management, particularly those related to accounting and financial reporting. The Committee ensured the effectiveness of internal control procedures put in place by the Group. To this effect, at regular intervals, the Committee monitored the progress made during the certification process required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. It also received the Internal Audit Department’s annual report for 2013 and for 2014, as well as the internal audit plans for 2014 and 2015. It assessed the internal and external auditors’ report to ensure the effectiveness of internal control systems set up by the Group. 112 Table of Contents CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report Finally, the Committee reviewed the Statutory Auditors’ reports and participated in the determination of the Statutory Auditors’ fees. The Committee was also briefed by the Chief Compliance Officer on the compliance programs set up for 2013 and 2014 and on the objectives set for 2015. The Committee also invited the Monitor to participate to one of its meetings and heard his recommendations. 7.1.4.2 Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee met 5 times during fiscal year 2014, with an attendance rate of 96 %, and twice in early 2015, with an attendance rate of 90%. Members Beyond the AFEP-MEDEF Code requirements, the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee’s operating rules provide that the Committee shall consist of no less than three members, at least two-thirds of whom must be independent. The members of the Committee are Mr. Jean-Cyril Spinetta, Chairman since July 30, 2014, Mr. Stuart E. Eizenstat, Mr. Louis R. Hughes (since July 30, 2014), Mr. Jean C. Monty (since July 30, 2014) and Mr. Olivier Piou. All members are independent Directors under French standards. Lady Sylvia Jay and Mr. Daniel Bernard were also members of the Committee until the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 28, 2014. Pursuant to the operating rules of the Committee, the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer may attend the meetings of the Committee and participate in the discussions on a consultative basis except when their personal situation is discussed. Role The role of our Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, as defined by the Board of Directors’ Operating Rules, is to: · review questions related to the composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors and its Committees; · identify and propose to the Board individuals who are qualified to hold the position of Director and serve on Committees; · develop and recommend to the Board a set of corporate governance principles applicable to the Company; · oversee the evaluations of the Board and of its Committees; · study matters of compliance in joint session with the Audit and Finance Committee ; · review different elements of the Human Resources policy and the Group’s CSR policy in joint session with the Compensation Committee; and · review succession plans for the CEO and other senior officers of the Group (Leadership Team). The Committee’s work in 2014 and early 2015 Pursuant to its operating rules, the Committee was in charge of a number of issues during the fiscal year 2014 and early 2015 with respect, in particular, to the composition of the Board of Directors, the modified composition of the Committees and the Board’s annual assessment. In the context of the renewals of the mandate of some of the Directors, the Committee studied the situation of each Director whose term of office was due to end at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 28, 2014 and thus proposed: (i) the renewal of the terms of office of Mrs. Kim Crawford Goodman and Mr. Jean-Cyril Spinetta and (ii) the appointment of Mrs. Véronique Morali and Mr. Francesco Caio as Directors for a three-year term, that is, until the end of the Shareholders’ Meeting which will be called to approve the financial statements for fiscal year ending December 31, 2016. The Committee proposed the renewal of each of the three Directors whose terms of office are due to expire at the Shareholders’ Meeting to be held on May 26, 2015, namely Messrs. Stuart E. Eizenstat, Louis R. Hughes and Olivier Piou. The Committee has also started the selection process for a new Director (see Section 7.1.2.1 “Principles of corporate governance”). The Committee also reviewed the independence of the Directors in light of the AFEP-MEDEF Code and the NYSE rules (see Section 7.1.2.1 “Principles of corporate governance”). In addition, it reviewed the performance criteria of the performance share plans for Mr. Philippe Camus and presented its recommendations to the Board of Directors (Chapter 8 “Compensation and long-term incentives”). In the course of joint sessions with the Compensation Committee, it reviewed questions related to diversity and talent strategy and the question of the succession of the members of the Leadership team. 7.1.4.3 Compensation Committee The Compensation Committee met 6 times during fiscal year 2014 with an attendance rate of 100% and twice in 2015 with an attendance rate of 88%. Members The Compensation Committee consists of no less than four members, at least two-thirds of whom must be independent. The members of the Committee are Mr. Jean-Cyril Spinetta (Chairman), Mrs. Véronique Morali (since July 30, 2014), Mr. Stuart E. Eizenstat and Mr. Olivier Piou. All members are independent Directors under French standards. Lady Sylvia Jay was also part of this Committee until the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 28, 2014. Pursuant to the operating rules of the Committee, the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer may attend the meetings of the Committee and participate in the discussions on a consultative basis except when their personal situation is discussed. 113 Table of Contents 7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report Role The roles of the Compensation Committee, as defined by the Board of Directors’ Operating Rules, are as follows: · To develop and make proposals to the Board of Directors, with respect to the compensation of the Directors, the Chairman, the CEO, and the key executives and the members of the Management Committee; · To review the proposals of the Senior Management concerning long-term compensation including, in particular, performance share grants and grants of stock options and other profit-sharing schemes linked to the Company’s share price to employees and senior officers of the Group; · To propose to the Committee the implementation of plans and to make recommendations on the conditions of these long-term instruments (vesting conditions, attendance and performance); · To review the performance of the implemented long-term compensation instruments and provide a situation update to the Committee; · To review any proposal to increase the capital of the Company reserved to employees; · To review the different sections of the Human Resources policy and the Group’s CSR policy in joint session with the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee. The Committee’s work in 2014 and early 2015 The Committee reviewed the components of the Company’s long-term compensation policy, which consists in performance shares and stock option grants. In this regard, it recommended the renewal, at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 28, 2014, of the two authorizations relating to the grant of performance shares and stock options which had expired on August 1, 2013. To this effect, the Committee formulated a set of recommendations regarding the conditions of these plans including the vesting period and the performance criteria governing all performance share grants and all grants of stock options to the Leadership Team. In September 2014, it approved the implementation of a plan to grant performance shares to 4,641 people. The performance criteria applicable to the previous performance share and stock option plans were reviewed by the Committee. The Committee also approved the criteria and the objectives related to the Company’s new variable compensation plan (Achievement Bonus Plan - ABP) for fiscal year 2014, as defined by the leadership of the Company. It reviewed the components of the compensation of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer for the fiscal years 2013 and 2014, in particular concerning the Chief Executive Officer’s variable compensation and the performance criteria which condition the vesting of his Performance Units. The Committee analyzed certain Group-level human resources matters such as compensation policy and, during joint sessions with the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, looked at development strategy for key individuals and policy concerning professional and compensation equality. Finally, the Committee analyzed the information related to the compensation of the Executive Directors and the members of the Management Committee prior to the publication of this information in this document (Section 8.2 “Status of the Executive Directors and Officers”). 7.1.4.4 Technology Committee The Technology Committee met five times during the fiscal year 2014 with an attendance rate of the Directors of 100% and once in 2015 with an attendance rate of the Directors of 100%. Members The Technology Committee consists of Mr. Louis R. Hughes (Chairman), Mrs. Carla Cico, Mrs. Kim Crawford Goodman, Mr. Francesco Caio (since July 30, 2014), Mr. Olivier Piou and Mr. Phillippe Keryer (member who is not a Director, in charge of the Group strategy and innovation). Mr. Lapraye and Mr. Le Dissez participate in the meetings of the Committee as Board Observers. Role The roles of the Committee, as defined by the Board of Directors’ Operating Rules, are as follows: · to review the major technological options that are the basis of the research and development work (R&D) and the launch of new products; · to be kept informed of the development of Alcatel Lucent’s scientific and technical cooperation projects put in place by Alcatel Lucent with academia and research groups; · to review R&D expenses, the risks associated with the R&D programs and the associated mitigation plans, technology trends and disruptive threats or opportunities; · to benchmark competitors to evaluate the Group’s R&D efficiency and cost. The Committee makes recommendations to the Board of Directors on the following points: · Product strategy and performance (market share, quality of service and action plan); · Program management; · Allocation of funds for research and development; · Long-term technology strategy and opportunities for innovation. The Committee’s work in 2014 and early 2015 At these meetings, the Committee discussed the strategic vision for Alcatel Lucent at the horizon 2020 and linked it to the Group’s technological positioning on the main markets in which 114 Table of Contents CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s corporate governance report it operates (Strategic Vision 2020, Tech Symposium). It reviewed the Group’s product portfolio and, in particular, the product portfolios of certain segments. Particular attention was given to the repositioning of research activities at Bell Labs (Future X projects, Bell Labs prize). The Committee reviewed in detail some of the Group’s key projects such as partnership strategy, 5G strategy, progress in the field of Cloud computing and the virtualization of networks. Finally, the Committee undertook a series of profile reviews and reviews of the strategic positioning of some of our competitors. 7.2 Regulated agreements Regulated agreements, commitments and related party transactions “Regulated” agreements under French law are agreements between a company and its CEO or a deputy Chief Executive Officer, if any, a director, or a shareholder holding more than 10% of the voting rights, that, while authorized by French law, do not involve transactions in the ordinary course of business under normal terms and conditions. These agreements, as well as, for example, any new commitment made to the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the CEO in the event of termination of his duties, must be authorized in advance by the Board of Directors through a specific legal procedure, reported on in a special Statutory Auditors’ report and presented for consultation at the Shareholders’ Meeting. Related party agreements and transactions (under U.S. law) include, among others, agreements entered into with the Company’s Directors and senior management, shareholders holding more than 5% of the Company’s capital, and close family members of the aforementioned parties. They are not subject to the prior authorization procedure required by French law, unless they fall under the rules applicable to “regulated” agreements. Commitments in favor of the CEO In the context of the appointment of Mr. Michel Combes as CEO of Alcatel-Lucent effective on April 1, 2013, the Board of Directors, at its meeting on March 7, 2013, authorized the following commitments in favor of Mr. Michel Combes: (i) The benefit of the private pension plan applicable to all corporate executives of the Group’s French subsidiaries (AUXAD plan) for the portion of their income that exceeds eight times the annual French Social Security limit, beyond which there is no legal or contractual pension scheme, subject to performance conditions as required by law, and (ii) a termination benefit, the amount of which will be equal to one year of base salary (fixed and target variable remuneration), subject to performance conditions as required by law. 1. The pension commitment mentioned above is subject to the following performance conditions: · three quantitative criteria, weighted cumulatively at 75% (individually 25% each), corresponding to the evolution of (i) revenue, (ii) operating income (loss) and (iii) the Alcatel Lucent share price in comparison with previous fiscal years compared with a representative sample of companies in the sector consistent with the sample used for the stock options and performance shares plans, · two qualitative criteria, weighted together at 25% (individually 12.5% each), corresponding to the execution of the Performance Program and the evolution of the customer satisfaction index. Over the reference period: · If the global performance score is above 85%: the beneficiary will be entitled to 100% of the rights with respect to this commitment; · If the global performance score is between 50% and 85%: the beneficiary will be entitled to 75% of the rights with respect to this commitment; · If the global performance score is between 25% and 50%: the beneficiary will be entitled to 50% of the rights with respect to this commitment; · If the global performance score is less than 25%: the beneficiary will not be entitled to any right with respect to this commitment. 2. The termination benefit is subject to a performance condition set in relation to Alcatel Lucent’s situation consisting in positive Free Cash Flow for at least one fiscal year from now until the end of Mr. Michel Combes’ mandate as CEO, as reported by the Company in its audited financial statements. The breakdown of Free Cash Flow is reported in Note 32-b of the 2013 audited consolidated financial statements. It corresponds to the net cash provided (or used) by operating activities (including restructuring cash outlays and contribution and benefits paid on pensions and post-employment benefits) reduced by capital expenditures. This performance condition can be either entirely fulfilled (at 100%), or not fulfilled (0%). In compliance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code, this termination benefit will only be paid if the following conditions are met: (a) the Board of Directors terminates Mr. Michel Combes’ term of office as CEO in connection with a change of control or strategy and (b) the performance condition as described above is fulfilled. No termination benefit will be due in the following cases: if Mr. Michel Combes (i) is terminated for gross negligence or 115 Table of Contents 7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Regulated agreements willful misconduct, (ii) leaves the Company on his own initiative, (iii) changes position within the Group, or (iv) upon his departure, has the ability to claim his pension rights within a short time period. These commitments were the subject of a Statutory Auditors’ special report and were approved by the shareholders at the Shareholders’ Meeting on May 7, 2013. The Board of Directors proceeded with the annual review in 2015 of the regulated agreements authorized and entered into during previous fiscal years and noted that the commitments in favor of Mr. Michel Combes at the time of his appointment as CEO continue to be consistent with the interest of the Company and do not raise any particular comments. Related party transactions There are no agreements between us and any of our shareholders who hold more than 5% of our capital. Details about related party transactions, as defined by IAS 24, entered into by our Group’s companies in 2012, 2013 and 2014 are presented in Note 29 to the consolidated financial statements “Related party transactions.” These transactions mainly concern jointly controlled entities (consolidated using proportional consolidation) and companies consolidated using the equity method. 7.3 Alcatel Lucent Code of Conduct In July 2009, Alcatel Lucent published a revised “Alcatel Lucent Code of Conduct”, which establishes, in a streamlined manner, the Company’s standards for ethical business conduct. The Code of Conduct is binding on all employees globally in their daily operations and on the Company in its relations with competitors, suppliers, shareholders, partners and customers. The standards set forth in the Code of Conduct are based upon the laws and regulations in force, as well as the notions of integrity, respect, equity, diversity and ethics. The Code of Conduct is available on the Alcatel Lucent Intranet site in twenty-two languages, as well as on the Alcatel Lucent external website. In 2014, in order to continue to enhance our employees’ awareness of international good conduct rules, we requested each employee to get reacquainted with and approve the Code of Conduct. This requirement was extended to non-employee contract workers (temporary workers, interns and apprentices). In the first quarter of 2015, the Company implemented a new program called “Conducting Business with Integrity” which states the main standards of conduct and which specifies the importance of conducting business with integrity. The program requires that all employees, as well as all temporary workers, interns and apprentices review the Code, applicable laws and the Company’s policies and procedures in order to carry out their responsibilities in the name and on behalf of the Company. The “Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers” of 2004, which applies to our CEO, Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Controller, is available on our website. This Code supplements the Code of Conduct mentioned above, which also applies to these senior financial officers. In addition, we implemented an Ethics and Compliance Program involving a set of processes, principles and controls to ensure compliance with the law as well as the respect of the Company’s directives and policies. Alcatel Lucent’s Chief Compliance Officer supervises the implementation and ongoing adoption of this program to reflect evolving legal requirements, international standards and the standards of behavior set forth in the Alcatel Lucent Code of Conduct. The Alcatel Lucent Ethics and Compliance Council was established in February 2007 and is comprised of the Chief Compliance Officer and the representatives of the following departments: Law, Audit and Finance, Human Resources & Transformation, Communications, Business & Information Technology Transformation, Procurement & Design-To-Cost, Public Affairs, Corporate Security, Global Delivery and the Office of Business Integrity & Compliance. This Council meets on a quarterly basis and is responsible for overseeing the strategic design and implementation at the Group level of an integrated and robust ethics and compliance system. In this respect, we comply with the NYSE rules that stipulate that all U.S. listed companies must adopt and implement a Code of Conduct aimed at the Chairman of the Board, the CEO, executive officers and employees. Although this rule is not mandatory for Alcatel Lucent, our Code of Conduct covers all the subjects included in the NYSE rules, except that it does not specify a mechanism allowing the Chairman of the Board, the CEO, the executive officers and the employees to obtain a waiver for the application of any aspect of such Code. 7.4 Major differences between our corporate governance practices and NYSE requirements The main ways in which our corporate governance practices are aligned with, or differ from, the NYSE’s corporate governance rules applicable to U.S. “domestic issuers” listed on the NYSE are explained above in Section 7.1 “Chairman’s corporate governance report” and in Section 7.3 “Alcatel Lucent Code of Conduct”. 116 Table of Contents Compensation and long-term incentives 8 8.1 Long-term compensation mechanisms 118 8.2 Status of the Executive Directors and officers 129 117 Table of Contents 8 COMPENSATION AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Long-term compensation mechanisms Section 8.1 “Long-term compensation mechanisms’’ deals with the general principles applicable to the long-term benefits for employees and management of the Group. The status of the Officers and Executive Directors, including with respect to their compensation, is more specifically dealt with in Section 8.2 “Status of the Executive Directors and Officers”. 8.1 Long-term compensation mechanisms 8.1.1 General principles The purpose of the compensation and long-term profit-sharing mechanisms in the Company’s capital is to involve employees and managers in the development goals of Alcatel Lucent, in the interest of the Group and its shareholders. The main instruments used in this context until now have been the grant of performance shares and stock options, as well as the implementation of profit-sharing agreements and employee savings plans in France. Grant policy for performance shares and stock options The grants of performance shares and stock options are decided each year by the Board of Directors at the recommendation of the Senior Management and after review by the Compensation Committee. They are part of the long-term compensation policy of the Company, which serves several purposes: to involve employees in the Group’s results; to encourage and reward individual performance; to attract and retain talent in a highly competitive industry, where recourse to such incentives is widespread. This compensation policy applies globally, but takes into account the different practices and specificities of the regulations applicable in each country. Further to the changes in French legislation in this area, in 2014 the Group was able to align the conditions applicable in France and in the other countries. The main characteristics of the plans satisfy the increased demands from the market. Performance conditions Every year, the Board of Directors determines the terms and conditions of the plans, and in particular the performance criteria attached to the grants of performance shares and stock options. The Board of Directors chose to subordinate the grant of performance shares to a single quantitative criterion. This criterion refers to the comparison between the evolution of the Alcatel Lucent share price and the share price of a representative panel of 10 solution and service providers in the telecommunications equipment sector. With respect to the grant of stock options to the Executive Directors and Officers, a single performance criterion has also been selected and is based on the Free Cash Flow. Performance criteria have remained unchanged since 2011; only the vesting conditions have been modified following the renewal of the authorizations at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 28, 2014, allowing the grant to employees of performance shares and of stock options or share purchase options. The table below reflects the current performance criteria applicable to performance share and stock option plans. Employees Leadership Team Performance shares Performance of Alcatel Lucent’s share applied to 100% of the grant Performance of Alcatel Lucent’s share applied to 100% of the grant Stock options (1) Not subject to performance condition Free Cash Flow’s evolution applied to 100% of the grant (1) No grant of stock options to employees in 2014 or to the Leadership team in 2013 and 2014. Gradual vesting and presence The vesting conditions of stock options and performance shares were reconsidered in 2014 in order to meet new challenges of a telecommunications industry which continues to be particularly competitive, specially in the United States where the compensation practices of the Silicon Valley companies are particularly aggressive. In this context, the Company proceeded to make two major changes, on the one hand by harmonizing the conditions between the French employees and those in other countries, and, on the other hand, by adopting the principle of a gradual vesting for 50% of the rights at the end of an initial 2-year period, in order to reinforce the notion of loyalty and long-term encouragement. Therefore, with regard to stock options, the vesting period is now of 3 years for all recipients regardless of the Group company that employs them (see Section 8.1.5 “Stock options”): · An initial vesting period of 2 years at the end of which the recipient acquires 50% of the rights provided that he/she is present in the Company at the end of these two years; 118 Table of Contents COMPENSATION AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Long-term compensation mechanisms · followed by a second vesting period, which corresponds to the third year, and at the end of which the recipient acquires the remaining 50% of the rights provided that he/she is present in the Company at the end of this third year. New stock option plans Stock option plans prior to 2014 With regard to performance shares, the total vesting period is 4 years for all recipients regardless of the Group company that employs them (see Section 8.1.2 “Performance shares”): · The satisfaction of the presence condition is determined at the end of the first period of 2 years (years 1 and 2) for 50% of the initial grant, and at the end of the second period of 2 years (years 3 and 4) for the remaining 50%; · the satisfaction of the performance condition is determined at the end of the same first 2-year period, as well as at the end of the 4-year vesting period. New performance share plans Performance share plans prior to 2014 Use of authorizations Two authorizations were adopted at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 28, 2014 allowing Alcatel Lucent’s Board of Directors to grant performance shares and stock options over a period of 38 months. Each authorization is limited to 2% of the capital, that is, a maximum of 4%. Regarding the plans implemented pursuant to these new authorizations, all grants of performance shares for all recipients will be subject to performance criteria; the same principle applies to all stock options granted to the members of the Leadership team. Use: 0.37% of the overall authorization of 4% of the capital* Only performance shares were granted during fiscal year 2014 pursuant to the new authorizations adopted by the shareholders at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 28, 2014, in an amount of 10.47 million shares. This represents 0.37% of the Company’s capital,* with grants to employees representing 0.35% and grants to the Leadership team representing 0.02%. 119 Table of Contents 8 COMPENSATION AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Long-term compensation mechanisms Breakdown of performance shares granted in 2014, in percentage of the share capital* * The reference share capital is the share capital at December 31, 2014. Readjustment of the grants and stabilization of the dilutive effects During recent years, the Company has gradually given priority to the grant of performance shares over stock options. As of December 31, 2014, the volume of stock options and performance shares in circulation, that is, 151.6 million securities (after adjustment), represents 4.18% of the diluted capital of Alcatel Lucent (see Section 10.2 “Capital”) and 5.38% of its capital. As of March 28, 2015, at the end of the exercise period for the stock option plan of March 28, 2007 (19.7 million stock options in circulation as of December 31, 2014, after adjustment), the volume of stock options and performance shares in circulation will only represent 3.64% of Alcatel Lucent’s diluted capital and 4.68% of its capital. Following the capital increase with preferential subscription rights completed on December 9, 2013, the conversion mechanism of the securities was adjusted in order to preserve the rights of the recipients of stock options and of the owners of securities giving access to the Company’s capital. This Chapter therefore reports on the number of securities and the exercise price of the stock options before and/or after adjustment for plans prior to the above-mentioned capital increase. With respect to the flows, the total volume of annual grants of performance shares and stock options was 21.9 million in 2012, 24.8 million in 2013 (before adjustment) and 10.47 million in 2014. The average grant rate, or “average burn rate,” corresponds to the average number of grants of performance shares and stock options within one year. The “historical burn rate” is calculated on the average of the last three grants and represents 19.05 million shares annually, that is, approximately 0.68% of the capital at December 31, 2014. Average annual grant rate in percentage of the share capital 120 Table of Contents COMPENSATION AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Long-term compensation mechanisms 8.1.2 Performance shares For all recipients, the acquisition of performance shares is subject to the recipient’s presence in the Group and to a performance condition, over a gradual vesting period of 4 years. Performance shares are no longer subject to a minimum holding period. Characteristics of the new grants Plan of September 15, 2014. The Board of Directors authorized the granting of 10,466,473 performance shares to 4,641 employees and officers of the Group, subject to the fulfillment of a presence condition and the performance criterion based on the Alcatel Lucent share price as described below. This plan includes a grant of 495,000 performance shares to the members of the Leadership team, excluding the CEO. Gradual vesting and presence of the recipient: The rights of the recipient are acquired at the end of an overall vesting period of 4 years, subject to a presence condition and a performance condition: · the satisfaction of the presence condition is determined at the end of a first period of 2 years (years 1 and 2) for 50% of the initial grant, and at the end of the second period of 2 years (years 3 and 4) for the remaining 50%; · the satisfaction of the performance condition is determined at the end of the same first 2 year period, as well as at the end of the 4-year vesting period; if the performance level at the end of the 4 years is greater than that noted at the end of the first 2 year period, this performance level at the end of the 4 years will be applied to the entire grant. The shares are available at the end of the fourth year following the grant. Performance criterion of the Alcatel Lucent share price: The evolution of the Alcatel Lucent share price is measured against a representative panel of 10 solutions and services providers in the telecommunication equipment sector. This reference panel may be revised based on changes at these companies, especially in case of transactions concerning their structure that may affect their listing. Since the plan of September 15, 2014, the panel consists of the following companies: Adtran, Amdocs, Arris, Ciena, Cisco, CommScope, Ericsson, Juniper, Nokia and ZTE. Amdocs and CommScope replaced F5 Networks and Motorola Solutions Inc., the activities of which now differ more from those of the Group. The number of shares definitively acquired depends on the performance of the Alcatel Lucent share price compared with the shares of the companies in the reference panel over the same period, with a heightened performance requirement for the Leadership team. Determination of performance level: At the time of the grant, the initial reference share price of Alcatel Lucent and of each of the companies of the panel is respectively determined as being equal to the average of the 20 opening prices preceding the grant date (the “Initial Reference Share Price”). At the end of each comparison period, the reference share price will be determined using the same method for Alcatel Lucent and for the companies of the panel, that is, the average of the 20 opening prices preceding the end date of the comparison period (the “Final Reference Share Price”). For Alcatel Lucent as well as for each company of the reference panel, the ratio used to assess the performance condition is calculated by dividing the Final Reference Share Price by the Initial Reference Share Price. Evaluation of the performance for the recipients who are Group employees: The performance is evaluated at the end of each 2-year period, the definitive acquisition being subject to the satisfaction of the presence condition and to the final evaluation at the end of the 4-year vesting period mentioned above: · if the Alcatel Lucent share price significantly underperforms compared to the share prices of the companies in the panel (difference of at least 40% compared to the median), no shares will be vested for the relevant period; · if the Alcatel Lucent share price performs as well as the share prices of the companies in the panel, measured based on the median, 100% of the shares relating to the relevant period will be vested; · between these two limits, the number of shares vested will be linearly proportional. Evaluation of the performance for the members of the Leadership team: The performance is evaluated at the end of each 2-year period, the definitive acquisition being subject to the satisfaction of the presence condition and to the final evaluation at the end of the 4-year vesting period mentioned above. The calculation method will be the same as that used for employees of the Group, with a higher performance condition: · if the Alcatel Lucent share price underperforms compared to the share prices of the companies in the panel (its evolution is below the median of the panel), no rights will be vested; · if the Alcatel Lucent share price performs as well as the share prices of the companies in the panel (its evolution is equal to the median of the panel), 75% of the rights relating to the relevant period will be vested; · if the Alcatel Lucent share price outperforms the share price of the companies in the panel by at least 10% compared with the median, 100% of the rights granted with respect to the relevant period will be vested ; · between these two limits (median and median + 10%), the number of shares vested will be linearly proportional, from 75% to 100%. The Board of Directors will determine, on the basis of an analysis validated by an audit firm contracted for this purpose, whether or not the performance conditions described above have been satisfied. 121 Table of Contents 8 COMPENSATION AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Long-term compensation mechanisms Conditions of presence and performance from 2011 to 2013 The vesting depends on the presence of the recipient as an employee after a 2-year period from the date of the grant and on the performance of the Alcatel Lucent share price, measured against the share price of a representative panel of 10 solutions and services providers in the telecommunication equipment sector (Adtran, Arris, Ciena, Cisco, Ericsson, F5 Networks, Juniper, Motorola Solutions Inc., Nokia and ZTE). The performance of the Alcatel Lucent share price is measured against the share price of a representative panel of 10 solutions and services providers in the telecommunications equipment sector As a reminder, the initial list of 14 providers as defined in 2009 was revised as a result of structural operations that ended the listing of the shares of Nortel in 2009, ADC Telecom in late 2010, Comverse in early 2013 and Tellabs at the end of 2013. The reference price is calculated, for the Alcatel Lucent share, based on the average opening price on the Euronext Paris exchange for the 20 trading days preceding the end of each 1-year period, and for the shares of the other issuers, on a similar basis on the main exchange where they are listed. For all recipients who are Group employees - regardless of which legal entity employs them - vested performance shares are available at the end of the fourth year following the grant. Performance condition. The evolution of the Alcatel Lucent share price and that of the other issuers is measured after each of the two initial 1-year periods for all recipients (Periods 1 to 2). For recipients employed by one of the Group’s companies based outside France, a third review of the performance of the Alcatel Lucent share price is conducted at the end of the fourth year to determine whether the rights calculated with respect to the first 2 years are definitively acquired at the end of the vesting period, that is, at the end of the fourth year. For recipients employed by one of the Group’s companies based in France, there is no additional performance review but an additional holding period of 2 years is required so that the performance shares become available at the end of the fourth year following the grant, as for recipients who are employees of one of the Group’s companies based outside of France. Reference Periods 1 to 2. Depending on the Alcatel Lucent share price’s ranking compared with that of other issuers in the panel, a coefficient ranging from 0% to 100% is used to calculate the number of shares vested during the first and the second periods. The Board of Directors determines, on the basis of an analysis validated each year by an audit firm contracted for this purpose, whether or not the performance condition has been satisfied (see Section 8.1.3 “Performance reviews for the performance share plans”). The coefficient used for the second period applies to the balance of rights that have not vested during the first period. No rights vest if the Alcatel Lucent share price is the last in this ranking. The number of performance shares finally vested for recipients who are Group employees in France at the end of the 2-year vesting period amounts to the total number of the vested shares in the 1st and the 2nd years. Reference Periods 1 to 4. With respect to recipients who are employees of the Group’s companies based outside France, the final number of shares vested will be determined at the end of the 4-year vesting period; the reference price of the Alcatel Lucent share and of the shares of the other issuers in the representative panel, as determined on the grant date, will be compared to the average of their reference share prices measured at each anniversary date of the grant date in order to establish a ranking of the performance of the Alcatel Lucent share price and of the share prices of the other issuers. If the Alcatel Lucent share price is not ranked in last position, the total number of shares as determined at the end of the reference periods 1 to 2 will be definitively vested. Achievement levels observed in fiscal years 2014 and 2015. With respect to the March 16, 2011 plan, which includes 9,939,786 performance shares (before adjustment) for 8,177 recipients, it is noted that 816,552 Alcatel Lucent shares (before adjustment) were previously issued to 956 employees of the Group’s companies based in France on the second anniversary date of the plan, based on an achievement level of 50%. For recipients who are employees of the Group’s companies based outside France, the last performance review is scheduled on the 4th anniversary date of the plan and will determine whether the rights acquired at the end of the first two periods (50%) are definitively vested at the end of the vesting period. At its meeting of March 13, 2015, the Board of Directors determined, consistent with the provisions mentioned above, that the Alcatel Lucent share price ranks 8th in comparison with the shares of the issuers in the panel, and that consequently, since the Alcatel Lucent share is not ranked last, the achievement level of 50% obtained at the end of Period 2 is to be used to determine the number of rights of the 6,109 recipients who are employees of companies based outside France, which results in a total of 3,771,094 performance shares definitively vested for the benefit of those employees. With respect to the March 14, 2012 plan which includes 10,474,215 performance shares (before adjustment) granted to 7,936 recipients, the ranking and the coefficient at the end of the performance review carried out on March 13, 2014 are 1 and 100% respectively, which translates into a global achievement level of 100% at the end of the 2-year vesting period for the recipient employees of the Group’s companies based in France. A total of 1,830,056 Alcatel Lucent shares (after adjustment) were issued to 885 recipients who were employees of the Group’s companies based in France and who were present on the second anniversary date of the plan (except in case of death or disability). No rights will be vested before the end of the 4-year vesting period (March 14, 2016) to recipients who are employees of the Group’s companies based outside France. With respect to the July 12, 2013 plan, which includes 2,368,500 performance shares (before adjustment) granted to 47 recipients, the ranking and coefficient at the end of the performance review carried out on July 29, 2014, are 3 and 75%, respectively. The results of the 2015 performance review will be released on the anniversary date of the grant (a date which is after the filing of this annual report) and will be reported on the Alcatel Lucent website. 122 Table of Contents COMPENSATION AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Long-term compensation mechanisms Presence and performance conditions prior to 2011 The acquisition of performance shares for the March 17, 2010 plan depends not only on the presence of the recipient as an employee in the Group for a 2-year period starting at the date of the grant, but also on the satisfaction of the Group’s annual targets for a period of 2 or 4 years, depending on whether the recipient is an employee of the Group’s companies based in France (2 years) or outside of France (4 years). Performance condition. The criterion chosen for the performance condition of the March 17, 2010 plan is the same as the one chosen in 2010 for the Global Annual Incentive Plan (AIP), that is, the Group’s operating income, with precisely-defined achievement levels. Reference periods. The satisfaction of this performance criterion is assessed at the end of each period corresponding to the successive fiscal years. For the recipients who are employees of the Group’s companies based in France, the achievement level of the performance criterion is calculated at the end of a 2-year period on the basis of the performance rates for each fiscal year (Periods 1 to 2). For the recipients who are employees of the Group’s companies based outside France, the achievement level is calculated at the end of a 4-year period on the basis of the performance rates for each fiscal year (Periods 1 to 4). The performance rates are reported each year in the plan performance reviews (see Section 8.1.3 “Performance reviews for the performance share plans”). Achievement level observed for fiscal year 2014. With respect to the March 17, 2010 plan, that includes 7,114,502 performance shares (before adjustment) for 10,952 recipients, at the end of the performance review of March 14, 2014, the Board of Directors, on March 19, 2014, noted an achievement level of 0% with respect to fiscal year 2013, that is, a global achievement level of 41.63% at the end of the 4-year vesting period, representing 2,392,688 Alcatel Lucent performance shares acquired by the 8,221 recipients who are employees of the Group’s companies outside France and who were present on the second anniversary date of the plan (except in case of death or disability). As a reminder, 975,109 Alcatel Lucent shares were issued to 1,399 employees of the Group’s companies based in France on the second anniversary date of the plan, based on a global achievement level of 83.25%. 8.1.3 Performance reviews for the performance share plans The following plans were subject to a performance review during fiscal year 2014: Performance review Level of achievement Date of plan Performance criterion Weighting Period 1 Period 2 Period 3 Period 4 Periods 1 to 2 Periods 1 to 4 03/17/2010 Group’s operating income 100% 84% 82.5% 0% 0% 83.25% 41.63% 03/16/2011 Alcatel Lucent share price performance 100% 0%Rank 13 50%Rank 10 _ 50% Rank 8 50% 50% 03/14/2012 Alcatel Lucent share price performance 100% 50%Rank 9 100%Rank 1 _ 100% 07/12/2013 Alcatel Lucent share price performance 100% 75%Rank 3 _ (1) (1) The results of the 2015 performance review will be released on the anniversary date of the grant (a date which is after the filing of this annual report) and will be reported on the Alcatel Lucent website. For details on the performance criteria, performance monitoring and the level achieved: See Section 8.1.2 “Performance shares”. 123 Table of Contents 8 COMPENSATION AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Long-term compensation mechanisms 8.1.4 Summary table for the performance share plans History of the performance share plans at December 31, 2014 Number of performance shares Totalnumber ofrecipients Performanceconditions Vesting date ofshares(2) Adjusted number ofvested shares Availabilitydate Total number of shares Shares granted to ExecutiveDirectors Shares granted to theLeadership team Date du plan before adjustment after adjustment(1) before adjustment after adjustment(1) before adjustment after adjustment(1) 09/17/2008 100,000 100,000 (Chairman of Board of Directors) 1 2 financial criteria and 1 qualitative criterion 03/11/2010 100,000 03/11/2012 10/29/2008 250,000 250,000 (CEO) 1 2 financial criteria and 1 qualitative criterion 02/10/2011 250,000 02/10/2013 03/18/2009 200,000 200,000 (Chairman of Board of Directors) 1 3 financial criteria and 1 qualitative criterion 03/18/2011 200,000 03/18/2013 03/18/2009 6,782,956 6,795,154 866,658 11,075 3 financial criteria 03/18/2011 or03/18/2013 2,198,373 03/18/2013 03/17/2010 200,000 200,000 (Chairman of Board of Directors) 1 1 financial criterion and 1 qualitative criterion 03/17/2012 200,000 03/17/2014 03/17/2010 7,114,502 7,439,815 806,663 835,822 10,952 1 financial criterion 03/17/2012 or03/17/2014 3,377,414 03/17/2014 03/16/2011 200,000 200,000 (Chairman of Board of Directors) 1 Share price performance and 1 qualitative criterion 03/16/2013 170,000 03/16/2015 03/16/2011 9,939,786 10,386,596 1,400,000 1,451,112 8,177 Share price performance 03/16/2013 or03/16/2015 827,730 03/16/2015 03/14/2012 200,000 211,352 200,000 (Chairman of Board of Directors) 211,352 1 Share price performance and 1 qualitative criterion 03/14/2014 211,352 03/14/2016 03/14/2012 10,474,215 11,033,036 1,000,000 1,051,100 7,936 Share price performance 03/14/2014 or03/14/2016 1,842,528 03/14/2016 07/12/2013 2,368,500 2,502,997 966,000 1,020,858 47 Share price performance 07/12/2015 or07/12/2017 (3) 07/12/2017 09/15/2014 - 10,466,473 - 495,000 4,641 Share price performance 09/15/2016 and09/15/2018 - 09/15/2018 TOTAL 37,829,959 48,835,423 1,150,000 1,161,352 5,039,321 4,853,892 42,834 9,377,397 (1) In the context of the capital increase with preferential subscription rights dated December 9, 2013, the rights of the beneficiaries of stock options and performance shares were preserved through an adjustment of the conversion mechanism. The principle of the adjustment is based on the application of an adjustment ratio of 1.056756449 (i) to the number of securities granted to each beneficiary, rounded up to the next whole number and (ii) to the exercise price of the stock option plans, by division, rounded up to three decimal places. Depending on system constraints specific to banks in charge of managing the plans, the number of securities initially granted is adjusted by taking into account the securities that have already been vested or cancelled. (2) This is the earliest date at which performance shares can become fully vested, with full ownership to be acquired on the first working day following acknowledgment, at the end of the vesting period, that the presence and performance conditions have been met. (3) The results of the 2015 performance review will be released on the anniversary date of the grant (a date which is after the filing of this annual report) and will be reported on the Alcatel Lucent internet website. 124 Table of Contents COMPENSATION AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Long-term compensation mechanisms 8.1.5 Stock options Like the performance shares, the stock option mechanism introduces gradual partial vesting over two successive periods. The vesting of the stock options is subject to the recipient’s presence in the Group at the end of an initial 2-year period and of a second 1-year period. A performance condition applies, but only to the Executive Directors and members of the Leadership team. Characteristics of the new grants The Board of Directors did not grant any stock option for fiscal year 2014, but it did determine the main characteristics of future plans that may be put in place by using the authorizations granted at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 28, 2014. Gradual vesting The recipients would gradually acquire rights to the stock options or the share purchase options granted, over a period of 3 years, subject to a presence condition at the end of each of the two vesting periods: · An initial vesting period of 2 years at the end of which the recipients would acquire 50% of the rights, provided that they are present in the Company at the end of these two years; · followed by a second vesting period, corresponding to the 3rd year, and at the end of which the recipients would acquire the remaining 50% of the rights, provided that they are present in the Company at the end of the 3rd year. Performance condition With respect to the members of the Leadership team, the vesting of the rights to the stock options granted would be subject to the same vesting principles as those applicable to all employees. In addition, it would be subject, for the entire grant, to a performance condition based on the evolution of the Free Cash Flow. The satisfaction of this performance condition would be assessed on the basis of the Free Cash Flow objectives as defined by the Board of Directors, at the end of the first 2-year period for 50% of the rights, and at the end of the 3rd year for the remaining 50%. Main characteristics of the March 16, 2011 annual plan to the 2013 annual plans Limitation. The number of stock options that could be granted pursuant to the authorization given to the Board of Directors at the Shareholders’ Meeting of 2010 for a period of 38 months was limited to 3% of the share capital. The Group’s policy concerning the grant of stock options limited to 1% the grants within each annual stock option plan. Gradual vesting. Recipients acquire rights to stock options granted to them gradually over a period of 4 years, subject to their presence at the end of each vesting period. The rights to the stock options vest at a rate of 25% per year for recipients who are employees of the Group’s companies based outside France. For recipients who are employees of the Group’s companies based in France, the vesting period of 4 years includes an initial vesting period of 2 years after which the recipient acquires 50% of the rights, followed by a gradual vesting of 25% at the end of the 3rd year and 25% at the end of the 4th year. Exercise of the rights. Stock options may be exercised once related rights are definitively vested, subject to any holding period that may be imposed by law in certain countries. For instance, recipients who are employees of the Group’s companies based in France may not exercise their stock options granted before September 28, 2012, before the end of the holding period, which is 4 years from the grant date of the stock options. Pursuant to the new French tax regime applicable to stock options granted after September 28, 2012, the capital gains on acquisition are subject to the progressive income tax scale with no benefit related to the holding period. For all Group employees – regardless of which legal entity employs them — in view of the gradual vesting, all stock options granted can only be eventually available at the end of the 4th year following the grant. The stock options as so vested must be exercised before the end of the plan, that is, within 8 years from the grant. No discount. The exercise price for the stock options does not include any discount or reduction and is equal to the average opening price for the Alcatel Lucent share on the Euronext Paris stock exchange for the 20 trading days preceding the Board of Directors’ meeting at which the stock options are granted, and the exercise price cannot be lower than the par value of the Alcatel Lucent share, that is, €0.05 since June 2013 (€2.00 before this date). Performance conditions for the Leadership team. Grants of stock options for Executive Directors and members of the Leadership team have the same vesting principles as those applicable to all employees, but are also subject to performance criteria. These criteria apply to 100% of the stock options granted to the Executive Directors of the Group, consistent with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, and to 50% of the stock options granted to members of the Leadership team (except for the CEO). There was no grant of stock options to the members of the Leadership team in 2013. The financial criterion selected for the 2011 and 2012 grants to members of the Leadership team is the evolution of the Free Cash Flow. Performance is assessed at the end of each fiscal year over a 4-year period. The rights to the stock options vest at a rate of 25% of the rights per year for recipients who are employees of the Group’s companies based outside France, and 50% of the rights at the end of a first 2-year period and then 25% of the rights at the end of each of the two following 1-year periods for recipients who are employees of the Group’s companies based in France. 125 Table of Contents 8 COMPENSATION AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Long-term compensation mechanisms Depending on the performance achieved, a coefficient ranging from 0% to 100% is used to calculate the number of vested rights for each period (see Section 8.1.6 “Performance reviews for the stock option plans”). Leadership team: The performance criterion is a financial criterion, the evolution of the Free Cash Flow Achievement levels observed in fiscal years 2014 and 2015. With respect to the March 16, 2011 plan (1,400,000 stock options, before adjustment), the coefficients obtained at the end of the annual performance reviews carried out on March 14, 2014 and March 13, 2015 are 0% and 89%, respectively. Therefore, the overall achievement level obtained at the end of the vesting period of the plan is 30.5%. With respect to the March 14, 2012 plan (1,100,000 stock options, before adjustment), the coefficients obtained at the end of the annual performance reviews carried out on March 14, 2014 and March 13, 2015 are 0% and 89%, respectively. Main characteristics of the annual plans prior to March 16, 2011 Gradual vesting. For plans up to March 17, 2010, recipients gradually acquire rights to stock options granted to them over a period of 4 years from the grant date, subject to their presence as employees at the end of each period. The rights to the stock options vest at a rate of 25% of the rights after the first year and 1/48th of the rights after each following month. For plans adopted after March 17, 2010 and prior to the March 16, 2011 annual plan, the rights to the stock options granted vest gradually following the same method as the one applicable to the March 16, 2011 annual plan through the 2013 annual plans, as described above. Exercise of the rights and no discount. The exercise of the rights and the absence of discount are the same as those applicable to the March 16, 2011 annual plan through the 2013 annual plans, as described above. Performance conditions for the Leadership team. The performance of the Alcatel Lucent share price is the performance criterion selected for the grant of stock options to the management decided from September 17, 2008 to March 1, 2011. This criterion applies to 50% of the stock options granted to the Executive Directors of the Group and to the members of the Leadership team. The gradual vesting of rights depends on the presence of the recipient within the Group at the end of each vesting period and on the performance of the Alcatel Lucent share price, measured against the share price of a panel of 10 solutions and services providers in the telecommunication equipment sector (Adtran, Arris, Ciena, Cisco, Ericsson, F5 Networks, Juniper, Motorola Solutions Inc., Nokia and ZTE). Leadership team: the performance criterion is the evolution of the Alcatel Lucent share price This panel may be revised based on changes at these companies, especially in case of transactions concerning their structure that may affect their listing. The reference price will be calculated, for the Alcatel Lucent share, based on the average opening price on the Euronext Paris exchange for the 20 trading days preceding the end of each 1-year period, and for the shares of the other issuers, on a similar basis on the main exchange where they are listed. The evolution of the Alcatel Lucent share price and that of the other issuers is measured over a period of 4 years: · At the end of each 1-year period, each year corresponding to 25% of the rights, in order to measure the performance each year; · and at the end of the 4th period for the final determination of the number of rights upon expiration of the vesting period, in order to measure the performance of the Alcatel Lucent share price between the grant date and the end of the 4th period (see Section 8.1.6 “Performance reviews for the stock option plans”). Depending on the performance of the Alcatel Lucent share price, a coefficient ranging from 0% to 100% is used to calculate the number of rights acquired during each vesting period. No rights are vested if Alcatel Lucent’s share price is last in this ranking. The Board of Directors determines, on the basis of an analysis validated each year by an audit firm contracted for this purpose, whether or not the performance condition has been satisfied. For the purpose of determining the final number of stock options vested at the end of the 4-year vesting period, the performance of the Alcatel Lucent share and of the shares of the other issuers in the panel is measured for the period from the grant date to the end of the 4th period to obtain a new ranking. On the basis of this ranking, a new coefficient may be used in order to calculate the total vesting for the recipient, if it is more favorable than the ranking on each anniversary date. In that case, the number of shares vested in the last period is adjusted accordingly. Achievement level observed for fiscal year 2014. With respect to the October 1, 2010 plan (400,000 stock options, before adjustment), the overall achievement level for each plan, calculated at the end of Period 3 due to the departures of recipients, is 50%. With respect to the March 1, 2011 plan (400,000 stock options, before adjustment), the overall achievement level, calculated at the end of Period 2 due to the departures of recipients, is 31.25%. With respect to the March 17, 2010 plan (1,980,000 stock options, before adjustment), the ranking and coefficient obtained at the end of the annual performance reviews carried out on March 15, 2013 and March 14, 2014 are 10 and 50% for the 2013 review and 1 and 100% for the 2014 review. At the end of the vesting period, the ranking and coefficient obtained for the final review are 5 and 100%, respectively. Therefore, the overall achievement level obtained at the end of the vesting period of the plan is 100%. 126 Table of Contents COMPENSATION AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Long-term compensation mechanisms 8.1.6 Performance reviews for the stock option plans The following plans were subject to a performance review during fiscal years 2013 and/or 2014. Number of options granted Exercise price in Euros Performance review Date of plan beforeadjustment afteradjustment beforeadjustment afteradjustment Exercise period Performance condition Period 1 Period 2 Period 3 Period 4 Globallevel ofachievement 12/31/2008 1,700,000 1,758,199 2.00 1.893 12/31/2009 to12/30/2016 Share price performanceapplied to 50% of the grant 50%Rank 10 50%Rank 10 0%Rank 12 50%Rank 9 68.75% 03/18/2009 2,600,000 2,715,420 2.00 1.893 03/18/2010 to03/17/2017 Share price performanceapplied to 50% of the grant 100%Rank 4 100%Rank 4 0%Rank 13 50%Rank 10 81.25% 03/17/2010 1,980,000 2,087,320 2.40 2.271 03/17/2011 to03/16/2018 Share price performanceapplied to 50% of the grant 100%Rank 4 0%Rank 13 50%Rank 10 100%Rank 1 100% 07/01/2010 400,000 408,514 2.20 2.082 07/01/2011 to06/30/2018 Share price performanceapplied to 50% of the grant 100%Rank 1 0%Rank 13 _ _ 37.5%* 10/01/2010 400,000 422,703 2.30 2.176 10/01/2011 to09/30/2018 Share price performanceapplied to 50% of the grant _ 0%Rank 11 100%Rank 1 _ 50%** 03/01/2011 400,000 422,720 3.20 3.028 03/01/2012 to02/28/2019 Share price performanceapplied to 50% of the grant 0%Rank 11 50%Rank 9 _ _ 31.25%* 03/16/2011 1,400,000 1,472,625 3.70 3.501 03/16/2012 to03/15/2019 Financial performance criterionapplied to 50% of the grant 33% 0% 0% 89% 30.5% 03/14/2012 1,100,000 1,157,486 2.00 1.893 03/14/2013 to03/13/2020 Financial performance criterionapplied to 50% of the grant 0% 0% 89% * The level of achievement has been calculated over 2 years given that there are no longer any beneficiaries after period 2. ** The level of achievement has been calculated over 3 years given that there are no longer any beneficiaries after period 3. For details on the performance conditions, performance monitoring and the level achieved, see Section 8.1.5 “Stock options”. 8.1.7 Summary tables for the stock option plans AMF Table No. 9: Information on the largest grants or exercises for fiscal year 2014 Pursuant to the provisions of Article L. 225-184 of the French Commercial Code, the table below provides information for fiscal year 2014 with respect to the employees who are not Executive Directors, and who received the ten largest grants or were issued the ten largest numbers of shares upon exercise of stock options: Number of stock optionsgranted Weighted average price Plans 10 largest employees stock options grants No grant for fiscal year 2014 10 largest employees stock options exercises 1,656,487 €2.83 Plan of December 31, 2008 Plan of March 18, 2009 Plan of March 17, 2010 Plan of July 1, 2010 Plan of March 14, 2012 127 Table of Contents 8 COMPENSATION AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Long-term compensation mechanisms History of Alcatel Lucent stock option plans at December 31, 2014 Total potential number of shares(4) Exercise price(in Euros) Total number of optionsgranted Granted toExecutiveDirectors (2) Granted toLeadershipteam (3) Options exercise period Date of the Board of Directors Meeting beforeadjustment (1) afteradjustment (1) beforeadjustment (1) afteradjustment (1) before adjustment (1) Totalnumber ofrecipients From To Adjustednumber ofoptionsexercised Adjustednumber ofoptionscancelled Adjustedoutstandingoptions as of12/31/2014 2006 03/08/2006 11.70 11.072 17,009,320 17,726,571 390,400 1,318,822 8,001 03/08/2007-03/08/2010 03/07/2014 - 17,726,571 - 05/15/2006 12.00 11.356 122,850 129,364 53 05/15/2007 05/14/2014 - 129,364 - 08/16/2006 9.30 8.801 337,200 354,131 217 08/16/2007-08/16/2010 08/15/2014 - 354,131 - 11/08/2006 10.40 9.841 121,100 125,716 26 11/08/2007-11/08/2010 11/07/2014 - 125,716 - 2007 03/01/2007 10.00 9.463 204,584 216,078 42 03/01/2008-03/01/2011 02/28/2015 - 119,590 96,488 03/28/2007 9.10 8.611 40,078,421 42,039,910 800,000 2,130,000 15,779 03/28/2008-03/28/2011 03/27/2015 - 22,352,173 19,687,806 08/16/2007 9.00 8.517 339,570 357,285 119 08/16/2008-08/16/2011 08/15/2015 - 230,943 126,342 11/15/2007 6.30 5.962 294,300 306,308 210,000 33 11/15/2008-11/15/2011 11/14/2015 - 270,688 35,620 2008 03/25/2008 3.80 3.596 47,987,716 50,294,368 2,050,000 14,414 03/25/2009-03/25/2012 03/24/2016 1,429,745 23,157,670 25,706,953 04/04/2008 3.80 3.596 800,000 800,000 800,000 1 04/04/2009-04/04/2012 03/04/2016 - 800,000 - 07/01/2008 4.40 4.164 223,700 235,935 64 07/01/2009-07/01/2012 06/30/2016 - 139,385 96,550 09/17/2008(3) 3.90 3.691 250,000 258,869 250,000 1 09/17/2009-09/17/2012 09/16/2016 - 258,869 - 12/31/2008(3) 2.00 1.893 2,052,400 2,128,464 1,700,000 88 12/31/2009-12/31/2012 12/30/2016 1,336,786 686,624 105,054 2009 03/18/2009 2.00 1.893 30,656,400 31,986,394 76,641 03/18/2010-03/18/2011 03/17/2017 6,164,138 4,679,713 21,142,332 03/18/2009 2.00 1.893 21,731,110 22,762,455 1,000,000 2,600,000 11,113 03/18/2010-03/18/2013 03/17/2017 6,963,033 7,018,165 8,781,292 07/01/2009 2.00 1.893 443,500 467,229 54 07/01/2010-07/01/2013 06/30/2017 116,216 172,866 178,147 10/01/2009 2.90 2.744 282,500 292,589 25 10/01/2010-10/01/2013 09/30/2017 28,197 181,429 82,963 12/01/2009 2.50 2.366 108,400 114,562 16 12/01/2010-12/01/2013 11/30/2017 55,483 40,055 19,024 2010 03/17/2010(3) 2.40 2.271 18,734,266 19,690,026 1,000,000 1,980,000 10,994 03/17/2011-03/17/2014 03/16/2018 3,810,045 5,032,309 10,847,736 07/01/2010(3) 2.20 2.082 721,000 746,293 400,000 65 07/01/2011-07/01/2014 06/30/2018 236,110 370,053 140,130 10/01/2010(3) 2.30 2.176 851,000 896,493 400,000 54 10/01/2011-10/01/2014 09/30/2018 65,917 344,521 486,055 12/09/2010 2.20 2.082 125,000 132,637 27 12/09/2011-12/09/2014 12/08/2018 6,109 59,419 67,109 2011 03/01/2011(3) 3.20 3.028 605,500 637,681 400,000 39 03/01/2012-03/01/2015 02/28/2019 - 529,351 108,330 03/16/2011(3) 3.70 3.501 11,251,125 11,821,386 1,300,000 1,400,000 8,178 03/16/2012-03/16/2015 03/15/2019 - 4,044,907 7,776,479 06/01/2011 4.20 3.974 414,718 434,371 61 06/01/2012-06/01/2015 05/31/2019 - 254,132 180,239 09/01/2011 2.50 2.366 171,000 179,479 44 09/01/2012-09/01/2015 08/31/2019 11,096 47,369 121,014 12/01/2011 2.00 1.893 145,500 153,791 45 12/01/2012-12/01/2015 11/30/2019 11,551 37,130 105,110 2012 03/14/2012 2.00 1.893 10,770,255 11,343,749 1,100,000 7,950 03/14/2013-03/14/2016 03/13/2020 1,052,376 2,498,065 7,793,308 08/13/2012 2.00 1.893 390,400 401,185 41 08/13/2013-08/13/2016 08/12/2020 11,096 259,561 130,528 12/17/2012 2.00 1.893 94,500 99,885 27 12/17/2013-12/17/2016 12/16/2020 2,245 21,407 76,233 2013 07/12/2013 1.50 1.419 22,417,900 23,685,235 2,051 07/12/2014-07/12/2015 07/11/2021 585,443 2,534,657 20,565,135 TOTAL 229,735,235 240,818,439 5,540,400 15,688,822 156,263 21,885,586 94,476,833 124,455,977 (1) In the context of the capital increase with preferential subscription rights dated December 9, 2013, the rights of the beneficiaries of stock options and performance shares were preserved through an adjustment mechanism of conversion rules. The principle of the adjustment is based on the application of an adjustment ratio of 1.056756449 (i) to the number of securities granted to each beneficiary, rounded up to the next whole number and (ii) to the exercise price of the stock option plans, by division, rounded up to three decimal places. Depending on system constraints specific to the banks in charge of managing the plans, the number of securities initially granted is adjusted by taking into account the securities that have already vested or been cancelled. (2) 2006: Mr. Tchuruk, 2006 to 2008: Mrs. Russo, 2008 to 2013: Mr. Verwaayen. (3) 2006: 14 members, 2007: 9 members, 2008: 11 members, 2009: 14 members, 2010: 16 members, 2011: 15 members, 2012: 11 members, 2013: 0 member. (4) The number of shares that may be acquired depends on the level of satisfaction of certain performance conditions. For an annual performance review, see Section 8.1.6 “Performance reviews for the stock option plans.” 128 Table of Contents COMPENSATION AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Long-term compensation mechanisms 8.1.8 Collective profit-sharing agreement and collective pension savings plan (PERCO) The Group’s French companies have set up in France collective profit-sharing agreements and employee savings plans based on the recommendations of the senior management. Furthermore, foreign subsidiaries have introduced profit-sharing plans for their employees in compliance with the relevant local laws, when such laws allow it. On February 23, 2009, the Group’s French companies and the trade unions representing these companies signed a collective agreement concerning the creation of a Collective Pension Savings Plan (PERCO). PERCO may be used by employees of the Group’s French companies to top up their future pensions or to assist them, for example, in the purchase of their home. This plan allows them to make payments into a long-term savings plan and to receive matching contributions from Alcatel Lucent. PERCO is an addition to the existing employee savings plans. Until June 25, 2009, only payments made into Alcatel Lucent’s Employee Shareholder Fund (Fonds Actionnariat Alcatel-Lucent) could be matched by employer contributions (with a blocking period of 5 years). To encourage employees to contribute to the pension savings plan, the signatories of the PERCO agreement decided to set up a joint matching contribution allowance for the PERCO and the Alcatel Lucent Employee Shareholder Fund for all of the Group’s French companies. Alcatel Lucent will top up any profit-sharing or voluntary payments made into the plan. Each year an employee may invest up to €3,000 in PERCO and/or the Alcatel Lucent Employee Shareholder Fund, and benefit from a maximum employer gross contribution of €2,000. The employer contribution is calculated as follows: · 100% of the employee’s payments up to €1,000 of accumulated payments; · 70% of the employee’s payments, when the accumulated payments are between €1,001 and €2,000; · 30 % of the employee’s payments, when the accumulated payments are between €2,001 and €3,000. 8.2 Status of the Executive Directors and officers 8.2.1 Compensation policy for the Executive Directors and Officers The compensation policy for the Executive Directors is established in accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. Upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, the Board of Directors determines all compensation and long-term benefits awarded to the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer. Role of the Board of Directors and of the Compensation Committee The Board of Directors ensures a balance between the various components of the Executive Directors’ compensation (fixed and variable compensation, grants of stock options, performance shares, Performance Units, severance pay and additional pension benefits, if any). It also ensures that these components comply with the principles of comprehensiveness and clarity, balance and reasonableness, benchmarking and consistency, as set forth in the AFEP-MEDEF Code. Proposals for the compensation of the Chairman and of the Chief Executive Officer, as well as of the Directors and key executives, are established under the responsibility of the Compensation Committee. The Compensation Committee evaluates all compensation paid or attributed to them, including benefits relating to retirement, severance pay and other benefits of any nature. The Committee’s recommendations relate to the annual evaluation of the Group’s management and the setting of the fixed and variable compensation paid to key executives. This includes the proposals of base salary and their potential increase, the rules for determining the variable part of their compensation, the targets against which performance is measured and the review of the achievement level of the targets. The Compensation Committee also reviews the policies relating to the grant of stock options and performance shares to the Group’s officers, and in particular to the members of the Leadership Team. General principles applied to the long-term compensation of the Executive Directors Pursuant to the AFEP-MEDEF Code, all grants of performance shares and stock options to the Executive Directors are subject to the satisfaction of one or more performance conditions as determined by the Board of Directors. According to the authorization given by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 28, 2014, these grants must account for less than 6% of the total number of employee grants over a period of 38 months. The Board of Directors also determines specific conditions pertaining to the holding periods for shares allocated to the Executive Directors, in accordance with Article L. 225-197-1 of the French Commercial Code, and to the obligation to purchase Alcatel Lucent shares related to the grant of performance shares as provided in the AFEP-MEDEF Code. 129 Table of Contents 8 COMPENSATION AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Status of the Executive Directors and officers Pursuant to the Law of December 3, 2008 to promote earnings from employment, these grants were accompanied by a mechanism providing an interest in the Group’s performance for more than 90% of the staff of the French companies of the Group, by way of a supplemental profit-sharing payment. The Board of Directors did not grant any stock option or performance share to the Executive Directors in 2013 or 2014. Compensation policy for the Executive Directors In 2014, the Board of Directors determined the compensation policy for the Executive Directors, taking into account in particular the Company’s strategy, as reflected by the Shift Plan. The compensation of the Chief Executive Officer is determined each year by the Board of Directors based on the recommendation of the Compensation Committee. The performance criteria applicable to his variable compensation and to his long-term compensation are in line with the Group’s strategy and transformation objectives. For fiscal year 2014, 50% of his variable compensation depends on achieving the Shift Plan targets and 50% depends on a financial criterion. As regards his long-term compensation, it is composed of Performance Units subject to a presence condition and performance criteria, namely the performance of the share price compared with a panel (weighted at 50%), and the implementation of the Company’s strategy (weighted at 50%). The Chairman’s compensation also consists of a fixed portion and long-term compensation based on performance criteria, of which the evaluation criteria are specific to the role and responsibilities of the Chairman of the Board of Directors. The table below reflects the main criteria adopted with respect to the compensation of the Executive Directors for fiscal year 2014: Fixed compensation Variable compensation Performance Units Chairman Individual skills 50% Qualitative criteria related to the position of Chairman of the Board 50% Contribution to the Company’s strategy CEO Individual skills 50% Financial criterion50% Achievement of the targets of the Shift Plan 50% Performance of the share 50% Implementation of theCompany’s strategy Short-term performance Long-term performance 8.2.2 Chairman of the Board of Directors The compensation of the Chairman of the Board of Directors consists of a fixed annual compensation and a long-term compensation in the form of Performance Units subject to a presence condition at the end of a 2-year vesting period, and to the satisfaction of performance criteria linked to his position as Chairman of the Board. Annual compensation in cash The gross compensation of Mr. Philippe Camus was set at €200,000 at the time when he took office. This amount has remained unchanged since he was first appointed in 2008. This compensation represents twice the average compensation of the Directors of the Company and does not include any variable component. Mr. Philippe Camus does not receive any Director’s fee, nor any benefit in kind. AMF Table N°2: Table summarizing the compensation of the Chairman of the Board of Directors Mr. Philippe Camus – Chairman of the Board of Directors Fiscal year 2013 Fiscal year 2014 (amounts in Euros) Due Paid Due Paid Fixed compensation _ 200,000 _ 200,000 Variable compensation _ N/A _ N/A Exceptional compensation _ N/A _ N/A Director’s fees _ N/A _ N/A Benefits in kind _ N/A _ N/A TOTAL _ 200,000 _ 200,000 130 Table of Contents COMPENSATION AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Status of the executive directors and officers Long-term compensation Stock options Mr. Philippe Camus does not benefit from any Alcatel Lucent stock option. Performance shares Mr. Philippe Camus did not benefit from any grant of performance shares in 2014. As a reminder, in order to show his personal commitment toward the Group’s recovery, Mr. Philippe Camus relinquished, in 2013, any performance share grant. The Board of Directors duly noted this decision. However, deeming that the compensation of the Chairman did not reflect the intensity and the quality of his contribution to the governance of the Company, the Board of Directors decided, on the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, to grant him long-term compensation in the nature of Performance Units, in addition to his fixed annual compensation of €200,000. 2014 grant of Performance Units On March 19, 2014, the Board of Directors decided to grant Mr. Philippe Camus 400,000 Performance Units subject to a 2-year vesting period and to a presence condition as the Chairman of the Board at the end of the vesting period (2016), and to the achievement of performance criteria. Performance Units are conditional rights which grant the beneficiary the right to receive compensation in cash. The level of satisfaction of the performance objectives will be assessed at the end of the vesting period, in accordance with the decision of the Board of Directors at its meeting of March 13, 2015. Initially, the achievement level of the performance criteria was to be assessed at the end of the first year of the vesting period as well as at the end of the vesting period. The vesting of the Performance Units will be subject to the satisfaction of two performance criteria: · 50% based on the implementation of the recommendations resulting from the evaluation of the Board of Directors conducted at the beginning of 2014, as approved by the Board of Directors; · 50% based on the Chairman’s contribution with respect to the Company’s strategy. Gradual vesting period. The rights to the Performance Units vest over a period of 2 years subject to the satisfaction of the performance criteria. At the end of the 2-year vesting period, the value of each Performance Unit will be determined based on the average price of the Alcatel Lucent share for the 20 trading days preceding March 19, 2016, each Unit being valued at this average of the share price. Presence condition. The rights attached to the Performance Units will be definitively vested if Mr. Philippe Camus is still the Chairman of the Board of Directors at the end of the 2-year vesting period, that is, on March 19, 2016. AMF Table N°1: Table summarizing the compensation, stock options and performance shares granted to the Chairman of the Board of Directors Mr. Philippe Camus – Chairman of the Board of Directors (amounts in Euros) Fiscal year2013 Fiscal year2014 Fixed compensation related to the fiscal year 200,000 200,000 Variable compensation related to the fiscal year _ _ Benefits in kind _ _ Subtotal – Actual compensation 200,000 200,000 Valuation of the stock options granted related to the fiscal year(1) _ _ Valuation of the performance shares granted related to the fiscal year (1) _ _ Valuation of the Performance Units granted related to the fiscal year(2) _ 1,157,600 The vesting period of the Performance Units is of 2 years, subject to presence and performance conditions. TOTAL 200,000 1,357,600 (1) No performance shares or stock options were granted to Mr. Philippe Camus during fiscal years 2013 or 2014. (2) The number of Performance Units granted to Mr. Philippe Camus is 400,000. This grant is valued at €1,157,600, calculated based on the Alcatel Lucent share price on March 19, 2014, the date on which it was granted by the Board of Directors. It does not reflect the level of achievement (partial or total) of the performance conditions attached to the Performance Units and assessed over 2 years. The gains actually realized will depend on the value of each Performance Unit, calculated based on the average Alcatel Lucent share price over the 20 trading days preceding March 19, 2016. Based on the Alcatel Lucent share price on March 13, 2015, of €3.72, the grant is valued at €1,488,000. 131 Table of Contents 8 COMPENSATION AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Status of the executive directors and officers Grant of performance shares prior to 2013 On March 14, 2012, the Board of Directors decided to grant 200,000 performance shares (before adjustment) to Mr. Philippe Camus, subject to the satisfaction of the presence condition and of the performance conditions based on a quantitative criterion (share price performance), weighted at 30%, and qualitative criteria (related to the position of the Chairman of the Board of Directors), weighted at 70%. Quantitative criterion. The evolution of the Alcatel Lucent share price is based on the rules defined for the Group annual plan to the benefit of employees and management except the officers (see Section 8.1.2 “Performance shares”). Qualitative criteria. These criteria, tied to targets specific to the position of Chairman of the Board of Directors, were defined by the Board of Directors. Their achievement level was assessed at the end of the vesting period of these rights, at the meeting of the Board of Directors on March 19, 2014. The criteria defined by the Board of Directors in March 2012 were as follows: · to lead the Board in its duties to define the strategic goals of the Group; · to ensure that the Board composition is consistent with its missions and with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code; · to ensure the implementation of the recommendations agreed by the Board on the basis of the Board’s evaluation performed at the beginning of 2012. Performance review of qualitative criteria. Regarding the Board’s duties in defining the Group’s strategic goals under the leadership of its Chairman, the Board of Directors was heavily involved in discussions about the determination of the elements of the Shift Plan in 2013. Regarding the Board’s composition, it includes a set of varied competencies and strong personalities, with a good balance between different nationalities reflecting the roots and the international culture of Alcatel Lucent. Moreover, the number of Directors as well as their independence are satisfactory. These characteristics of the Board were reinforced with the selection of two Directors, Ms. Véronique Morali and Mr. Francesco Caio, who have Telecom backgrounds as well as finance expertise. The nomination of Mrs. Véronique Morali also allowed the Board of Directors to maintain the representation of women at a good level (27%) after the departure of Lady Sylvia Jay. Regarding the implementation of the 2012 recommendations following the Board’s evaluation, two main points were highlighted, that is, the allocation of tasks between the Board of Directors and the Committees, and the implementation of sessions dedicated to certain strategic matters. According to the results of the 2014 Board evaluation, all of the members of the Board shared the view that the Committees play their role with remarkable commitment. All Board Members attend most of the Committee meetings, which enables them to be particularly aware of the activities of the Committees and facilitates discussion and decision-making during the plenary Board sessions. Achievement levels observed in 2014. The ranking and coefficient obtained at the end of the Alcatel Lucent share price performance reviews for 2013 and 2014, are 9 and 50% and 1 and 100% respectively. At its meeting of March 19, 2014, the Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, carried out a performance review of the qualitative criteria which showed a performance rate of 150% reflecting an overall achievement level of 100% at the end of the 2-year vesting period. Therefore, the total number of shares issued to Mr. Philippe Camus was 211,352 shares (after adjustment). These shares will remain non-transferable until the end of his position as Chairman of the Board of Directors. Obligation to hold vested shares. Until such time as he ceases his functions as Chairman of the Board, Mr. Philippe Camus must hold all the Alcatel Lucent shares resulting from (i) the grant of performance shares pursuant to his stock-based compensation and (ii) the acquisition of Alcatel Lucent shares on the market throughout his term of office. As a result, these shares cannot be sold before the end of his position as Chairman of the Board. Purchase obligation. Mr. Philippe Camus is subject to an obligation to purchase two Alcatel Lucent shares per five performance shares acquired at the end of the vesting period. This requirement is effective at the end of the legal holding period for shares (that is, 4 years after the grant date). However, it is suspended as long as the value of the Alcatel Lucent shares held by the Chairman is at least equal to 40% of his annual compensation net of tax. In compliance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code, Mr. Philippe Camus has agreed not to use hedging instruments concerning the performance shares he receives. 132 Table of Contents COMPENSATION AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Status of the executive directors and officers Plan of03/14/2012 Review of conditions Global level ofachievement Performance conditions Weighting Period 1 Period 2 Period 3 Period 4 Quantitative performance criterion 30% 50% 100% Alcatel Lucent’s share price performance Rank 9 Rank 1 Qualitative performance criteria 70% 150% To lead: the Board in its duties to define the strategic goals of the Group Holding* Holding* 100% To ensure that the Board composition is consistent with its missions and with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code To ensure the implementation of the recommendations agreed by the Board on the basis of the Board’s evaluation performed at the beginning 2012 * The shares will vest at the end of period 2. With respect to the mandatory holding of the vested performance shares, Mr. Philippe Camus must, beyond the holding period of two years (Periods 3 and 4), keep these performance shares until the end of his functions. AMF Table N°6: History of performance shares granted to Mr. Philippe Camus Number of shares Number of shares vested Date of plan before adjustment after adjustment Vestingdate (1) afteradjustment Availabilitydate Mixed performance conditions Unitvaluation(2) 09/17/2008 100,000 03/11/2010 100,000 03/11/2012 2 financial criteria and 1 qualitative criterion € 3.05 03/18/2009 200,000 03/18/2011 200,000 03/18/2013 3 financial criteria and 1 qualitative criterion € 1.19 03/17/2010 200,000 03/17/2012 200,000 03/17/2014 1 financial criterion and 1 qualitative criterion € 2.40 03/16/2011 200,000 03/16/2013 170,000 03/16/2015 Alcatel Lucent’s share price performance and 1 qualitative criterion € 3.48 03/14/2012 200,000 211,352 03/14/2014 211,352 03/14/2016 Alcatel Lucent’s share price performance and 3 qualitative criteria € 1.64 TOTAL 900,000 881,352 – – – (1) This is the earliest date on which performance shares can become fully vested, with full ownership to be acquired on the first working day following acknowledgment at the end of the vesting period, provided that the presence and performance conditions have been met. (2) The unit value (rounded to the nearest tenth of a euro) corresponds to the value in the consolidated financial statements on the date of grant. This value results from theoretical computations, and the actual gains that may be made will depend on the share price on the date of sale of Alcatel Lucent shares. The unit value for the 03/14/2012 plan was calculated on the basis of a share price of €1.80 on the same date. Benefits after termination of functions Mr. Philippe Camus has not received any commitment from the Company or any other Group company with respect to the termination of his duties as Chairman of the Board or the period following termination. Furthermore, he is not entitled to any supplemental pension scheme. AMF Table N°10: Table summarizing the situation of the Chairman of the Board of Directors Mr. Philippe Camus Employmentcontract Supplementalpension scheme Termination payment or benefitsowed or likely to become owedas a result of the termination orchange of position Compensation paid pursuantto a non-compete clause Chairman of the Board of Directors appointed on October 1, 2008. Term renewed at the Shareholders’ Meeting on 05/07/2013 None None None None 133 Table of Contents 8 COMPENSATION AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Status of the executive directors and officers Apart from the above-described contractual commitments, there is no other commitment concerning the Chairman of the Board of Directors with respect to compensation, indemnities or benefits owed, or likely to be owed, by reason of the termination or change of his position or following such termination or change of position. Compensation due or granted to the Chairman of the Board of Directors for fiscal year 2014, submitted to the opinion of the shareholders Pursuant to the AFEP-MEDEF Code (recommendation 24.3), Code which the Company uses as reference pursuant to Article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code, the following components of the compensation due or granted with respect to the then ended fiscal year to each Executive Director are subject to the consultative opinion of the shareholders: · fixed portion; · annual variable portion and, as the case may be, the multi-annual variable portion, with targets that are used to determine this variable portion; · exceptional compensation; · stock options, performance shares and any other components of long-term compensation; · welcome bonus and severance pay ; · supplemental pension scheme; · benefits of any kind. Compensation due or granted during the past fiscal year Nature Amount (in Euros) Presentation Fixed annual compensation 200,000 Gross fixed annual compensation decided by the Board of Director’s meeting held on September 17, 2008 upon a proposal from the Compensation Committee. This amount has remained unchanged since 2008. Annual variable compensation N/A Mr. Philippe Camus has not received any annual variable compensation. Annual deferred variable compensation N/A Mr. Philippe Camus has not received any annual deferred variable compensation. Multi-annual variable compensation N/A The Board of Directors, during its meeting held on March 19, 2014, decided to award 400,000 Performance Units with a 2-year vesting period based on a condition of presence and two performance conditions: · Corporate governance: 50% based on the implementation of the recommendations resulting from the evaluation of the Board of Directors conducted at the beginning of 2014, as approved by the Board of Directors; · Contribution to the Company’s strategy: 50% based on the contribution of the Chairman to the Company’s strategy. The achievement level of the targets will be assessed at the end of the vesting period. Performance Units are conditional rights which grant the beneficiary the right to receive a compensation in cash. The rights to these Performance Units vest over a period of two years subject to the satisfaction of the performance criteria. At the end of the 2-year vesting period, the value of each Performance Unit will be determined based on the average share price of Alcatel Lucent for the 20 trading days preceding March 19, 2016, each unit being equal to the average of the share price. Exceptional compensation N/A Mr. Philippe Camus has not received any exceptional compensation. Stock options, performance shares or any other long-term compensation N/A Mr. Philippe Camus has not received any stock option or performance share. Director’s fees N/A Like the other Executive Directors, Mr. Philippe Camus has not received any attendance fee. Benefits of any nature N/A Mr. Philippe Camus has not received any benefit of any nature. 134 Table of Contents COMPENSATION AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Status of the executive directors and officers Benefits due or granted during the past fiscal year and on which shareholders have voted or must vote under the regulated agreements and commitments rules Nature Amount Presentation Severance pay N/A Mr. Philippe Camus has not received any severance pay. Non-compete clause N/A Mr. Philippe Camus does not benefit from any non-compete indemnity. Supplemental pension schemes N/A Mr. Philippe Camus does not benefit from any supplemental pension schemes. 8.2.3 Chief Executive Officer The total annual compensation of Mr. Michel Combes consists of a fixed portion and a variable portion, plus long-term compensation and benefits. The variable compensation is determined each year by the Board of Directors according to pre-defined performance criteria. The compensation of the Chief Executive Officer is determined each year by the Board of Directors upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee. The performance criteria applicable to his variable compensation and to his long-term compensation reflect the Group’s strategy and transformation objectives and the implementation of the Company’s strategy, as reflected by the Shift Plan. Annual compensation The criteria for determining the compensation of the CEO are specific and pre-established, in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. The Board of Directors, at its meeting of March 19, 2014, determined the components of the compensation of Mr. Michel Combes, as CEO. 2014 Fixed annual compensation. He receives a gross fixed annual compensation of €1.2 million, which has not changed since he took office on April 1, 2013. 2014 variable compensation. The Chief Executive Officer may also receive variable compensation ranging from 0% to 200% of his fixed compensation, with a target bonus of 100% when targets are reached, these targets having been set at the beginning of the fiscal year. The level of achievement for fiscal year 2014 was determined according to the two following performance criteria: · 50% based on the Free Cash Flow, with the same target as that applicable to all employees of the Group, according to the terms of the Achievement Bonus Plan (ABP). · 50% based on the achievement of the targets of the Shift Plan for fiscal year 2014, mainly focused on fixed costs. At its meeting of February 5, 2015, the Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, and after approval of the financial elements by the Audit and Finance Committee, determined the level of achievement for 2014, that is, 0% based on the Free Cash Flow, and 134% based on the achievement of the Shift Plan targets for fiscal year 2014. As a result, the variable compensation for Mr. Michel Combes for fiscal year 2014 is €804,000, which corresponds to 67% of his fixed compensation. The Board of Directors determined the level of achievement of the criteria which reflect both the Company’s performance and Mr. Michel Combes’s contribution to it. Regarding the Free Cash Flow, it is the same performance indicator as the one applicable to all employees of the Group, according to the terms of the Achievement Bonus Plan (ABP). The Board of Directors noted that the level of Free Cash Flow has shown significant progress compared to previous years. However, this improvement is widely based on elements being outside the operating cycle, such as the optimization of financial costs, pension expense and restructuring costs. Thus, upon the proposal of the Management Committee and with the approval of the Board of Directors, it was decided to determine the level of achievement of this performance indicator after restating the said elements, which led to a performance level of 0%. Regarding the target of reducing fixed costs as part as the Shift Plan for fiscal year 2014, the net fixed cost reduction amounts to €340 million, totaling €675 million of savings since the implementation of this plan in 2013 (for a cumulative target of €950 million euros at the end of the plan). The Board of Directors noted the performance level of 134%, corresponding to an excess of €74 million compared to the target reduction determined at the beginning of the fiscal year (performance being at 100% for achieved target) given that an excess of €109 million would have generated a performance score of 150%. Benefits in kind. Mr. Michel Combes does not receive any benefit in kind. A company car with a driver is made available to him as part of his functions. 2015 fixed and variable compensation. For fiscal year 2015, the Board of Directors decided to maintain the gross fixed annual compensation of Mr. Michel Combes as Chief Executive Officer at the level agreed when he took office. It also determined the performance criteria which will be applied for fiscal year 2015 for the determination of his variable compensation, as follows: · 50% based on the achievement of corporate targets, namely the segment operating cash flow and the level of customer satisfaction, with the same targets as those applicable to all employees of the Group, according to the terms of the Achievement Bonus Plan (ABP); · 50% based on the satisfaction of the objectives of the Shift Plan targets for fiscal year 2015, mainly focused on reducing fixed costs. 135 Table of Contents 8 COMPENSATION AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Status of the executive directors and officers The Corporate performance indicator is broken down as follows: the segment operating cash flow accounts for 40% of the total performance criteria and the level of customer satisfaction accounts for 10% of the total performance criteria (together they account for 50% of the performance criteria). The level of customer satisfaction will be measured through a customer survey. AMF Table N°2: Table summarizing the compensation of the Chief Executive Officer Mr. Michel Combes – CEO Fiscal year 2013 Fiscal year 2014 (amount in Euros) Due Paid Due Paid Fixed compensation _ 900,000 _ 1,200,000 Variable compensation 616,500 _ 804,000 616,500 (1) Exceptional compensation _ _ _ _ Director’s fees _ _ _ _ Benefits in kind _ _ _ _ TOTAL 616,500 900,000 804,000 1,816,500 (1) 2013 due variable compensation, paid in 2014. Long-term compensation The Board of Directors decided in 2013 to grant Mr. Michel Combes Performance Units with a vesting period of 3 years and subject to presence and performance conditions. Performance Units are conditional rights which grant the beneficiary the right to receive compensation in cash. Their vesting is subject to the fulfillment of two performance criteria. For fiscal year 2014, the Board of Directors decided the principle of the grant to Mr. Michel Combes of long-term compensation composed of 700,000 Performance Units and 700,000 stock options. With respect to the 700,000 Performance Units which were effectively granted, they will vest after a 3-year period and are subject to a presence condition and to the achievement of performance criteria. With respect to stock options, to date, the Board of Directors has not granted any since the effective date of the authorization given at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 28, 2014 and the decision of the Board of Directors on the principle of the grant of 700,000 stock options to Mr. Michel Combes, either to the employees of the Group or to the Executive Directors. Grant of 2015 Performance Units The Board, at its meeting of March 13, 2015 decided to grant Mr. Michel Combes 685,000 Performance Units subject to the presence condition that he remain Chief Executive Officer until the end of the 3-year vesting period (2018), and to the achievement of performance criteria applicable to the entire grant. The two performance criteria are the following: Implementation of the Company’s strategy: 50% of the vesting of the rights is based on the implementation and achievement of the strategic plan, it being noted that the reference plan for fiscal year 2015 is the Shift Plan. Share performance: 50% of the vesting of the rights is based on the evolution of the Alcatel Lucent share price compared with a representative panel of 10 solution and service providers in the telecommunication equipment sector (Adtran, Amdocs, Arris, Ciena, Cisco, CommScope, Ericsson, Juniper, Nokia and ZTE), it being noted that the evolution of the Alcatel Lucent share price will be assessed using the same evaluation method as the one applicable to the 2014 grant of Performance Units mentioned below. Characteristics of the grant: the satisfaction of these performance conditions will be assessed at the end of the 3-year vesting period. The final acquisition of the rights will be subject to the presence of Mr. Michel Combes as Chief Executive Officer at the end of the vesting period in 2018. The value of each Performance Unit will be determined based on the average of the Alcatel Lucent share price for the 20 trading days preceding March 13, 2018. The Board of Directors has decided to cap the resulting amount at 200% of the total target compensation (fixed and variable target), subject to presence and performance conditions, in compliance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. 2014 grant of Performance Units The Board of Directors, at its March 19, 2014 meeting, decided to grant Mr. Michel Combes 700,000 Performance Units with a 3-year vesting period, subject to the presence condition that he remain Chief Executive Officer until the end of the 3-year vesting period (2017), and to the achievement of performance criteria applicable to the entire grant, as follows: Implementation of the Company’s strategy: 50% of the vesting of the rights is based on the achievement of the strategic targets of the Company as set forth in its financial plan for the vesting period, it being specified that the reference plan is the Shift Plan for fiscal year 2014. The achievement level of the targets will be assessed each year. The Board determined the performance targets attached to the implementation of the Company’s strategy, applicable for 2015, which will be based on diversification, measured according to the growth of sales achieved outside the traditional business of the Company (Service Providers), such as sales to Governments and Large Enterprises (sectors such as Oil & Gas, Transport, Utilities). Share price performance: 50% of the vesting of the rights is based on the performance of the Alcatel Lucent share price measured each year on March 19th against the share price of a panel of 10 solution and service providers in the telecommunication equipment sector (Adtran, Amdocs, Arris, Ciena, Cisco, 136 Table of Contents COMPENSATION AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Status of the executive directors and officers CommScope, Ericsson, Juniper, Nokia and ZTE), with similar evaluation grids and methodology as those used for the performance shares granted to employees under the new authorization of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 28, 2014. The performance rate is based on the Alcatel Lucent share price ranking compared with the panel, according to the method applicable to the evaluation of performance for the members of the Leadership Team (see Section 8.1.2 “Performance Shares”) and varies between 0% and 100%. At each anniversary date of the grant, the performance rate applies to one third of the grant, the final vesting being conditioned by the achievement of the presence condition at the end of the 3-year vesting period: · if the Alcatel Lucent share price underperforms compared to those of the companies in the panel (its evolution is less than that of the panel median), no rights will vest; · if the Alcatel Lucent share price performs as well as those of the companies in the panel (its evolution is equal to that of the panel median), 75% of the rights relating to the period considered will vest; · if the Alcatel Lucent share price overperforms compared to those of the companies in the panel by at least 10% with regard to the median, 100% of the rights granted relating to the period considered will vest; · between these two limits (median and median + 10%), the number of rights that vest will be linearly proportional, from 75% to 100%. The Board of Directors will determine, on the basis of an analysis validated by an audit firm contracted for this purpose, whether or not the performance conditions described above have been satisfied. Gradual vesting period. The rights to these Performance Units vest over a period of three years subject to the satisfaction of the performance criteria. At the end of the 3-year vesting period, the value of each Performance Unit will be determined based on the average share price of the Alcatel Lucent share for the 20 trading days preceding March 19, 2017, each Unit being equal to the average of the share price. Level of achievement for fiscal year 2014. The Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, and after approval of the financial elements by the Audit and Finance Committee, determined the level of achievement with respect to fiscal year 2014 of the first criterion, namely, the implementation of the Company’s strategy, that is 100% based on the achievement of the targets of the Shift Plan. The results of the Company for the fiscal year 2014 reflect all the progress made during the year. The level of achievement of the targets linked to the second criterion, namely the evolution of the price of the Alcatel share, is determined at the anniversary date of the plan and will be communicated on the Company’s website after approval by the Board. Presence condition. The rights attached to the Performance Units will be definitively vested if Mr. Michel Combes is still the Chief Executive Officer at the end of the 3-year vesting period, that is on March 19, 2017. 2013 grant of Performance Units The Board of Directors, at its March 7, 2013 meeting, decided to grant Mr. Michel Combes 1,300,000 Performance Units with a 3-year vesting period from the date on which he took office, on April 1, 2013, subject to the presence condition that he remain Chief Executive Officer until the end of the 3-year vesting period (2016), and to the achievement of performance criteria applicable to the entire grant, as follows: Implementation of the Company’s strategy: With respect to fiscal year 2013, 50% of the vesting of the rights is based on the definition and the implementation of the Company’s strategy in order to achieve the Performance Program as described in the information memorandum to lenders made available on December 14, 2012. Upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, the Board of Directors decided to update the performance criterion relating to the definition and the implementation of the Company’s strategy for fiscal year 2014 in order to take into account the components of the Shift Plan announced on June 19, 2013, and more particularly, the divestments to be made in 2014 in execution of the Plan. The achievement level of the targets will be assessed each year. The Board determined the performance targets attached to the implementation of the Company’s strategy, applicable for 2015, which will be based on profitability, measured according to the Gross Margin indicator. Share price performance: 50% of the vesting of the rights is based on the performance of the Alcatel Lucent share price measured each year on April 1st against the share price of a panel of 10 solution and service providers in the telecommunication equipment sector (Adtran, Arris, Ciena, Cisco, Ericsson, F5 Networks Juniper, Motorola Solutions Inc., Nokia and ZTE), with the same evaluation grids and methodology as those used for the performance shares granted to employees. The performance rate varies according to the ranking of the Alcatel Lucent share price within this panel, that is: 100% if the Alcatel Lucent share price ranks among the top two; 75% if it ranks from rank 2 to rank 5; 50% if it ranks from rank 6 to rank 9; 0% if it ranks among the last two. Gradual vesting period. The rights to these Performance Units vest over a period of 3 years subject to the satisfaction of the performance criteria. At the end of the 3-year vesting period, the value of each Performance Unit will be determined based on the average share price of the Alcatel Lucent share for the 20 trading days preceding April 1, 2016, each Unit being equal to the average of the share price. Level of achievement for fiscal year 2014. The Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, and after approval of the financial elements by the Audit and Finance Committee, determined the level of achievement with respect to fiscal year 2014 of the first criterion, namely, the definition and the implementation of the Company’s strategy, that is, 100% based on the achievement of the targets of the Shift Plan and, in particular, for fiscal year 2014, on the basis of the progress in the divestments against the €1 billion target. At the end of fiscal year 2014, the divestment operations completed or announced had reached over 70% of the Shift Plan target. The achievement level of the targets with respect to the second criterion, that is, the performance of the Alcatel Lucent share price, will be determined as of April 1, 2015 and will be announced on the Company’s website after approval by the Board of Directors. 137 Table of Contents 8 COMPENSATION AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Status of the executive directors and officers Level of achievement for fiscal year 2013. The Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, and after the approval by the Audit and Finance Committee of the financial elements, determined the level of achievement with respect to fiscal year 2013 of the first criterion, namely, the definition and the implementation of the Company’s strategy, that is, 100% based on the achievement of the targets of the Performance Program. The achievement level of the targets with respect to the second criterion, that is, the performance of the Alcatel Lucent share price, was assessed on the anniversary date of the grant, that is, April 1, 2014. The Alcatel Lucent share price having ranked in the first position, the condition was achieved at 100%. Considering the achievement level of 100% of the two performance conditions, the global achievement rate for fiscal year 2013 is 100% (which represents 433,333 vested Performance Units, subject to the presence of the CEO at the end of the 3-year vesting period). Presence condition. The rights attached to the Performance Units will be definitively vested if Mr. Michel Combes is still the Chief Executive Officer at the end of the 3-year vesting period. Subject to the above-mentioned presence and performance conditions, the rights will become available at the end of the three-year period, that is, on April 1, 2016. AMF Table N°1: Table summarizing the compensation, and the stock options and performance shares granted to the Chief Executive Officer Mr. Michel Combes – CEO (amount in Euros) Fiscal year2013 Fiscal year2014 Fixed compensation related to the fiscal year 900,000 1,200,000 Variable compensation related to the fiscal year (1) 616,500 804,000 Benefits in kind _ _ Subtotal - Actual compensation 1,516,500 2,004,000 Valuation of the stock options granted related to the fiscal year (2) _ _ Valuation of the performance shares granted related to the fiscal year (2) _ _ Valuation of the Performance Units granted related to the fiscal year (3) 1,367,600 2 025 800 The vesting period of the Performance Units is of 3 years, subject to presence and performance conditions. TOTAL 2,884,100 4,029,800 (1) Related to the fiscal year and paid in the following year, after the publication of the annual results on the basis of which the achievement level of the annual performance targets is determined. (2) No performance shares or stock options were granted to Mr. Michel Combes. (3) 2013: The number of Performance Units granted to Mr. Michel Combes in 2013 is 1,300,000. This grant is valued at €1,367,600, calculated on the basis of the Alcatel Lucent share price on April 2, 2013, the date on which he took office as CEO. Based on the Alcatel Lucent share price on March 13, 2015, of €3.72, the grant is valued at €4,836,000. 2014: The number of Performance Units granted to Mr. Michel Combes in 2014 is 700,000. This grant is valued at €2,025,800, calculated on the basis of the Alcatel Lucent share price on March 19, 2014, the date on which it was granted by the Board of Directors. These amounts do not reflect the level of achievement (partial or total) of the performance conditions attached to the Performance Units and assessed over 3 years. The gains actually realized will depend on the value of each Performance Unit, calculated based on the average Alcatel Lucent share price over the 20 trading days preceding the end of the 3-year vesting period. Based on the Alcatel Lucent share price on March 13, 2015, of €3.72, the grant is valued at €2,604,000. Pension plan Since he took office, the CEO has benefited from the private pension plan applicable to all corporate executives of the Group’s French subsidiaries (AUXAD plan) for the portion of compensation that exceeds eight times the annual French Social Security limit beyond which there is no legal or contractual pension scheme, subject to performance conditions pursuant to applicable law. The system and the method of calculation of the AUXAD plan are similar to those of the AGIRC plan. This pension scheme, established in 1976, has 343 beneficiaries, including approximately 43 executives of the Group who are currently employed by Alcatel Lucent and by its French subsidiaries more than 50%-owned by Alcatel Lucent. AUXAD does not require the beneficiary to be present in the Company at the time of retirement in order to receive the benefit. Reference compensation and potential rights. The reference compensation includes the basic annual compensation (annual fixed and variable), excluding extraordinary items and variable items pursuant to the long-term compensation plan. On the assumption that performance criteria are reached at 100%, the AUXAD plan would generate a potential annuity of approximately 1% per year for compensation of approximately €1.2 million. Beyond this, this potential annuity could rise to 1.2%. This mechanism does not provide eventual potential rights above 45% of the reference income. The reference period to calculate the pension benefit is the total period of office(s) of Mr. Michel Combes as Chief Executive Officer. Performance criteria. The benefit of the pension plan is based on three quantitative performance criteria collectively weighted at 75% (25% each) and two qualitative criteria collectively weighted at 25% (12.5% each): · The three quantitative criteria correspond to the evolution of (i) revenue, (ii) operating income (loss) and (iii) the Alcatel 138 Table of Contents COMPENSATION AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Status of the executive directors and officers Lucent share price in the previous fiscal years, in each case, as compared with a representative sample of companies in the sector consistent with the panel used for the stock option and performance share plans (see the list of companies in Section 8.1.2 “Performance shares”). · The two qualitative criteria correspond to the implementation of the Performance Program and to the evolution of the index reflecting the customer satisfaction. Achievement level of the quantitative criteria. A performance rate is determined based on the achievement level of the three quantitative performance criteria as follows: 100% if Alcatel Lucent is ranked in the first two (1st-2nd) places, 75% if Alcatel Lucent is ranked between the third and the fifth (3rd-5th) places, 50% if Alcatel Lucent is ranked between the sixth and the tenth places (6th-10th) and 0% if Alcatel Lucent is ranked below the tenth (10th) place. Global performance rate. Over the reference period, a global performance rate will be calculated based on the achievement level of the quantitative and qualitative criteria in order to determine the rights of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to this pension plan. If the global performance rate is (i) greater than 85%, 100% of the rights will vest (ii) between 50% and 85%, 75% of the rights will vest (iii) between 25% and 50%, 50% of the rights will vest, and if the global performance rate is less than 25%, no rights will vest pursuant to this plan. Benefits after termination of functions Mr. Michel Combes will receive a termination benefit, the amount of which will be equal to one year of the total target compensation (fixed and variable target), subject to performance conditions as required by applicable law. This termination benefit is subject to a performance condition regarding the Company’s situation, consisting in the Free Cash Flow, as reported in the Company’s audited financial statements, being positive for at least one fiscal year before the end of Mr. Michel Combes’ term of office as CEO. The breakdown of the Free Cash Flow is reported in Note 32-b of the 2013 audited consolidated financial statements. It corresponds to the net cash generated (or used) for operating activities (including restructuring cash outlays and the financing of pensions and post-employment benefits), less investments in tangible and intangible assets. This performance condition can only be entirely fulfilled (at 100%) or not fulfilled (0%). In compliance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code, this termination benefit will only be paid if the following conditions are met: (a) the Board of Directors terminates the CEO in the context of a change of control or strategy and (b) the above-described performance condition is met. No termination benefit will be due in the following cases: if Mr. Michel Combes (a) is responsible for gross negligence or has engaged in gross misconduct, (b) leaves the Company on his own initiative, (c) changes position within the Group, or (d) is entitled to claim his pension rights within a short time period. No employment contract exists between Mr. Michel Combes and Alcatel Lucent or its subsidiaries, in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. AMF Table N°10: Table summarizing the situation of the Chief Executive Officer Mr. Michel Combes Employment contract Supplemental pension scheme Termination payment or benefitsowed or likely to become owed as aresult of the termination or changeof position Compensation related toa non-compete clause Chief Executive Officer Appointed on April 1, 2013 None Yes. Please refer to Section 8.2.3“Chief Executif Officer”,paragraph “Pension plan” formore details Yes. Please refer to Section 8.2.3“Chief Executive Officer”, sub-section“Benefits afer termination of functions”for more details None Apart from the above-described contractual commitments, there is no other commitment concerning the Chief Executive Officer with respect to compensation, indemnities or benefits owed or likely to be owed, by reason of the termination or change of his position or following such termination or change of position. Compensation due or granted to the CEO for fiscal year 2014, submitted to the opinion of the shareholders Pursuant to the AFEP-MEDEF Code (recommendation 24.3), Code which the Company uses as reference pursuant to Article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code, the following components of the compensation due or granted with respect to the then ended fiscal year to each Executive Director are subject to the consultative opinion of the shareholders: · fixed portion; · annual variable portion and, as the case may be, the multi-annual variable portion, with targets that are used to determine this variable portion; · exceptional compensation; · stock options, performance shares and any other components of long-term compensation; · welcome bonus and severance pay; · supplemental pension scheme; · benefits of any kind. 139 Table of Contents 8 COMPENSATION AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Status of the executive directors and officers Compensation due or granted during the past fiscal year Nature Amount (in Euros) Presentation Fixed annual compensation 1,200,000 The gross fixed annual compensation of Mr. Michel Combes as CEO amounts to € 1.2 million. Annual variable compensation 804,000 The variable compensation of Mr. Michel Combes’ compensation ranges from 0 to 200% of his fixed annual compensation, with a target bonus at 100% for targets reached, and is subject to the achievement of performance criteria. For 2014, two performance criteria were set to measure the level of achievement, namely: · 50% based on the Free Cash Flow, with the same target as that applicable to all employees of the Group, according to the terms of the Achievement Bonus Plan (ABP); · 50% based on the achievement of the Shift Plan targets for fiscal year 2014, mainly focusing on fixed costs. At the meeting of the Board of Directors of February 5, 2015, the Board of Directors, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee and after approval of the financial data by the Audit and Finance Committee, determined the achievement for fiscal year 2014, that is, 0% based on the Free Cash Flow and 134% based on the achievement of the Shift Plan. Therefore, the amount of the variable compensation of Mr. Michel Combes’ compensation for fiscal year 2014 is €804,000 and corresponds to 67% of his fixed annual compensation. Annual deferred variable compensation N/A Mr. Michel Combes has not received any deferred variable compensation. Multi-annual variable compensation No amount due for fiscal year 2014 The Board of Directors, during its meeting held on March 19, 2014 decided to award 700,000 Performance Units with a 3-year vesting period based on a condition of presence and two performance conditions: · Implementation of the Company’s strategy: 50% of the vesting is based on the achievement of the Company’s strategic targets as set forth in its financial plan for the vesting period, it being specified that the reference plan is the Shift Plan for fiscal year 2014. The achievement level of the targets will be assessed each year; · Share price performance: 50% of the vesting is based on the annual evolution of the Alcatel Lucent share price, measured on March 19 of each year, compared with the evolution of the share price of a panel of 10 solutions and service providers in the telecommunications equipment sector. Performance Units are conditional rights which grant the beneficiary the right to receive a compensation in cash. The rights to these Performance Units vest over a period of three years subject to the satisfaction of the performance criteria. At the end of the 3 year vesting period, the value of each Performance Unit will be determined based on the average share price of Alcatel Lucent for the 20 trading days preceding March 19, 2017, each Unit being equal to the average of the share price. Exceptional compensation N/A Mr. Michel Combes has not received any exceptional compensation. Stock options, performance shares or any other element of long-term compensation N/A Mr. Michel Combes has not received any stock option or performance share. Director’s fees N/A Like other Executive Directors, Mr. Michel Combes has not received any attendance fee. Benefits of any nature N/A Mr. Michel Combes benefits from a car with a driver as part of his functions only, which is not a benefit in kind. 140 Table of Contents COMPENSATION AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Status of the executive directors and officers Compensation due or granted during the past fiscal year and on which shareholders have voted or must vote under the regulated agreements and commitments rules Nature Amount (in Euros) Presentation Severance pay No amount due for fiscal year 2014 · Termination benefit equal to one year of compensation (fixed and target variable remuneration), subject to performance conditions as required by applicable regulation. This termination benefit is subject to a performance condition set regarding the Company’s situation, consisting in the Free Cash Flow being positive for at least one fiscal year prior to the end of Mr. Michel Combes’ position as CEO, as reported by the Company in its audited consolidated financial statement. · This performance condition can only be either entirely fulfilled (at 100%) or not at all (0%). · In compliance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code, this termination benefit will only be paid if the following conditions are met: (a) the Board of Directors terminates Mr. Michel Combes’ as CEO in the context of a change of control or strategy and (b) the performance condition as described above is met. No termination benefit will be due to Mr. Michel Combes in the following cases: (a) he is responsible for gross negligence or has engaged in willful misconduct, (b) he leaves the Company on his own initiative, (c) he changes position within the Group, or (d) he is entitled to claim his pension rights within a short time period. This commitment has been authorised by the Board of Directors’ meeting held on March 7, 2013 and has been approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2013 (resolution 11), in accordance with the rules applicable to regulated agreements and commitments. Non-compete clause N/A Mr. Michel Combes does not benefit from any compensation relating to a non-compete clause. Supplemental pension schemes No amount due for fiscal year 2014 · Subject to performance conditions as required by law, Mr. Michel Combes will benefit from the private pension plan (AUXAD plan) applicable to all corporate executives of the Group’s subsidiaries incorporated in France for the portion of their income that exceeds eight times the annual French Social Security limit beyond which there is no legal contractual pension scheme. This plan is still open. · The pension plan is subject, for 75%, to three quantitative criteria (25% each), corresponding to the evolution of (i) revenues, (ii) operating income and (iii) the Alcatel Lucent share price compared with previous fiscal years, in each case as compared with a representative sample of companies in the sector consistent with the panel used for the stock option and performance share plans, and, for 25%, two qualitative criteria (12.5% each), corresponding to the implementation of the Performance Program and the evolution of the customer satisfaction index. · Over the reference period, the global performance rate will be calculated to determine the rights with respect to this plan. The pension will be calculated based on the achievement level of the quantitative and qualitative criteria in order to determine the rights of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to this pension plan. If the global performance rate is (i) greater than 85%, 100% of the rights will be vested (ii) between 50% and 85%, 75% of the rights will be vested (iii) between 25% and 50%, 50% of the rights will be vested, and if the global performance rate is less than 25%, no right will be vested pursuant to this plan. · The reference compensation includes the annual compensation (fixed and variable compensation), excluding exceptional compensation and variable components of a long-term incentive plan. Based on performance conditions achieved at 100%, the AUXAD pension plan would generate a potential life annuity of approximately 1% per year for a remuneration of approximately €1.2M. Above, such potential life annuity would amount to approximately 1.2%. Potential rights under this scheme could not exceed 45% of the reference compensation. · This commitment has been authorised by the Board of Directors’ meeting held on March 7, 2013 and has been approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2013 (resolution 10) as part of the regulated agreements and commitments. 141 Table of Contents 8 COMPENSATION AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Status of the executive directors and officers 8.2.4 Management committee The compensation of the members of the Management Committee* consists of a fixed portion, a variable portion and long-term compensation and benefits based on Group performance criteria reviewed by the Compensation Committee, similar to those applicable to a large number of Group managers, and on their individual performance. The amount of fixed and variable compensations of the Management Committee amounts to €7 million, including fixed compensation of €4 million. The fixed part of the compensation may also include, where applicable, benefits in kind and expatriation or repatriation allowances as well as housing allowances for expatriates. The variable part for each fiscal year, payable the following year, is defined by the Achievement Bonus Plan (ABP). Note 29 to the financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report entitled “Related party transactions,” summarizes the total compensation and other benefits provided to senior management. In addition, Directors’ fees, if any, received by senior managers for their participation in meetings of the Board of Directors of companies within the Group are deducted from the salaries paid. Further, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, since April 2014, each member of the Management Committee has the obligation to hold Alcatel Lucent shares is an amount equal to one year’s salary, until such time as such person ceases to be a member of the Management Committee. The members of the Management Committee have a 3-year period in order to fulfill this obligation. This obligation also applies to the members of the Leadership Team who are not members of the Management Committee, for the duration of their functions within the Leadership team. * Within the Leadership Team, the Management Committee includes 6 members, including the Chief Executive Officer (see Section 7.1.1.3 “The Leadership Team and the Management Committee”). Global amounts reserved for pensions The aggregate commitments relating to pensions (taking into account total benefits obligation: vested and non-vested rights) and other benefits granted to members of the Board of Directors and the Management Committee as of December 31, 2014 amounts to €5.9 million (compared with €5.5 million in 2013). This amount is broken down as follows: €0.7 million relate to the Directors, including Mr. Michel Combes (compared to €0.1 million in 2013) and €5.2 million relate to the members of the Management Committee excluding Mr. Michel Combes (compared to €5.4 million in 2013). 142 Table of Contents Sustainability 9 9.1 Environment 144 9.2 Human resources 146 143 Table of Contents 9 SUSTAINABILITY Environment Alcatel Lucent is dedicated to making global communications more innovative, sustainable and accessible for people, businesses and governments worldwide, through its approach to responsible business innovation. Our activities focus on three core priorities: eco-sustainability, our people, digital inclusion. These priorities are underpinned by three key values: zero tolerance for compliance violations, collaboration only with partners who support our values, active engagement as citizens in the communities where we do business around the globe. 9.1 Environment 9.1.1 Overall environmental policy Our approach The information and communications technology (ICT) sector has the potential to play a critical role in addressing challenges related to climate change. At Alcatel-Lucent, our long-term success depends on helping our customers respond to their environmental challenges through our innovation – and on reducing our own direct environmental impact. For these reasons, we have built environmental considerations into virtually every aspect of our business, following a three-part approach. · Developing eco-sustainable networks: creating and bringing to market products, services and solutions that contribute to environmentally responsible end-to-end networks; · Leading the telecoms industry: innovating in finding new disruptive research responses to today’s climate change challenge through open, collaborative research partnerships and forums such as GreenTouch™ Consortium and/or through our own Bell Labs research on energy; and · Reducing our carbon footprint: reducing our absolute carbon footprint from operations by 50% by 2020 compared to our 2008 baseline. By the end of 2014, our carbon footprint had decreased by 40% compared to the 2008 baseline. This approach relies on our strong commitment for eco-innovation and our ability to play a leading role with key stakeholders. Provisions and guarantees for environmental risks It is our policy and practice to comply with all applicable environmental requirements and to provide safe, environmentally sound workplaces that will not adversely affect the health or safety of the communities in which we operate. Although we believe we are in material compliance with all environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and that we have obtained all material environmental permits and authorizations required for our operations and our products, we may have to incur expenditures in the future significantly in excess of our expectations to cover environmental liabilities, maintain compliance with current or future environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, or undertake any necessary remediation. The future impact of environmental matters, including potential liabilities, changes in carbon and environmental reporting requirements and the pricing of carbon emissions, is often difficult to estimate. We have modeled the potential pricing of carbon on our financial statements. Although it is not possible at this stage to predict the outcome of remedial and investigatory activities with absolute certainty, we believe the ultimate financial impact of these activities - net of applicable reserves - will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or our income (loss) from operating activities. As of December 31, 2014, our remaining outstanding balance related to our main provisions for environmental risks was € 59 million. 9.1.2 Pollution and waste management Laws and regulations We are subject to national and local environment, health and safety laws and regulations relevant to our operations, facilities and products in every jurisdiction where we operate. These laws and regulations impose various limitations (including the discharge of pollutants into the air and water) and establish standards for the treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous waste, which may require us to remediate a site at significant cost. In the United States, these laws often require parties to fund remedial action regardless of fault. We have incurred significant costs to comply with these laws and regulations and expect to continue to incur significant compliance costs in the future. We constantly monitor legal, regulatory and other developments that may affect the environmental, health and safety aspects of our activities, products or services. Compliance reviews are 144 Table of Contents SUSTAINABILITY Environment performed regularly and appropriate remedial measures are implemented once applicable legal, regulatory and other requirements are identified. Remedial and investigatory activities Remedial and investigatory activities are underway at numerous current and former facilities owned or operated by the former Alcatel and Lucent entities. In addition, Lucent Technologies Inc. (now Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc.) was named a successor to AT&T as a potentially responsible party at numerous Superfund sites pursuant to the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA) or comparable state statutes in the United States. Under a Separation and Distribution Agreement with AT&T and NCR Corporation (a former subsidiary of AT&T), Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. agreed to assume responsibility for certain liabilities primarily resulting from or relating to its assets and the operation of its business as conducted at any time prior to or after the separation from AT&T, including related businesses discontinued or disposed of prior to its separation from AT&T. Furthermore, under the Separation and Distribution Agreement, Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. is required to pay a portion of contingent liabilities in excess of certain amounts paid out by AT&T and NCR, including environmental liabilities. For more information, including our anticipated remedial costs associated with the cleanup of the Fox River Superfund Site in Wisconsin, please refer to Section 6.5 “Contractual obligations and off-balance sheet contingent commitments”, subtitle “Specific commitments: Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc.” In Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc.’s Separation Agreements with Agere and Avaya, those companies have agreed, subject to certain exceptions, to assume all environmental liabilities related to their respective businesses. 9.1.3 Sustainable use of resources Measures to improve efficiency of raw materials use Our life cycle assessment (LCA) approach evaluates the consumption of raw materials throughout the life cycles of our products. Data and results from LCA assessments inform continual improvements to achieve more efficient use of raw materials and energy at every stage of product life: raw material extraction, pre-processing, intermediate material and component manufacturing, final manufacturing and assembly, packaging, distribution and installation, use, and end-of-life reuse and recycling. These improvements are incorporated into our best practices for environmentally conscious product design. Product energy efficiency Given the anticipated rise in greenhouse gas emissions by the Information & Communications Technology (ICT) sector in the coming years, Alcatel-Lucent is relentlessly striving to reduce the environmental impact of its products and solutions. Numerous initiatives are underway to not only increase the energy efficiency of our products and solutions but also to decrease our total carbon footprint through more eco-efficient product design and optimized product development, with a significant focus being placed on implementing more energy saving features and eco-friendly production processes. In April last year, Bell Labs launched an application that models energy consumption of ICT networks. The GWATT (Global ‘What if’ Analyzer of NeTwork Energy ConsumpTion) (http://gwatt.net/), application is a thought-stimulating tool that is intended to drive intelligent dialogue about the sustainability potential of new technologies and the relative importance of different architectures and technologies on end-to-end energy consumption. Since then, over 4,000 users have accessed the GWATT application and nearly 1,000 have used it to forecast the effect of future traffic projection on energy consumption. 9.1.4 Green innovation Alcatel-Lucent’s research division, Bell Labs, recognizes that network energy consumption is one of the major industrial challenges facing customers and the ICT industry at large. With exponential traffic growth predicted for communication networks - accompanied by increased energy costs - service providers’ operational expenses will increase significantly without the development of new, energy-efficient technologies. A further concern is access to stable, reliable power - which cannot be taken for granted in the case of off-grid or poor-grid deployments in developing countries and rural areas, or where massive deployments of network equipment like small cells present significant operational challenges and expenses. Bell Labs’ Network Energy Research program focuses on optimizing network energy utilization, and on developing innovative solutions for Alcatel-Lucent products in the near, medium and long terms. The program’s research efforts span all major areas of the network including wireless and fixed access, metro and core networks, and optical transmission. The Energy Research program investigates technologies, architectures and solutions that: · reduce required energy per bit (that is, increase energy efficiency), for data transmission, processing or storage; · reduce power wastage from inefficiencies and overhead (for example, through more efficient thermal management and cooling); and · enable off-grid deployments through new energy harvesting solutions and high-density energy storage technologies. 145 Table of Contents 9 SUSTAINABILITY Environment The research program also investigates innovative applications of ICT technologies such as connected and smart city applications (e.g., smart grids and electric mobility). Given that network energy consumption affects the entire ICT industry, Bell Labs’ vision is based on extensive collaboration with service providers, equipment manufacturers, utility companies and academics. This collaboration is at the core of the GreenTouch Consortium, which was founded in 2010. The GreenTouch Consortium that Bell Labs initiated is a Global Research counting 48 member organizations aiming at creating a technology roadmap to make telecoms networks up to 1,000 times more energy efficient. 9.1.5 Climate change Tracking and reporting on carbon emissions We have made a commitment to reduce our absolute carbon footprint (CO2e) from our Scope 1 and Scope 2 operations by 50% by 2020 (compared to our 2008 baseline). According to the 2014 operational data available at the time of the filing of this document, the carbon footprint associated with our operations showed an approximate 40% reduction from 2008 levels. 9.2 Human resources Our human resources policies and practices ensure that the ongoing transformation of Alcatel-Lucent is aligned with changes affecting our customers, markets and the world at large. Because we operate worldwide and serve customers who do business on a global scale, our approach to human resources management and development is likewise global. 9.2.1 Employment Employees Our total worldwide employee headcount at the end of 2014 was 52,673. The figures take into account all employees who worked for fully consolidated companies (including long-term absences/notice period) as well as for companies in which we own 50% or more of the equity. The numbers were restated for the last three years due to the sale of our Enterprise activities on September 30, 2014. Enterprise headcount was 2,872 in 2012, 2,795 in 2013, and 463 in 2014. Contractors and temporary workers In 2014, the average number of contractors and temporary workers was 3,740 in the aggregate. The number of contractors is composed of employees of third parties performing work subcontracted by Alcatel-Lucent. The number of temporary workers is, in general, composed of employees of third parties seconded to perform work at our premises due, for example, to a short-term shortfall in our employees or in the availability of a certain expertise. 9.2.2 Work organization and management The Shift Plan The Shift Plan is an industrial, operational and financial plan to refocus Alcatel-Lucent as a specialist in IP and cloud networking as well as ultra-broadband access, and to deliver innovation that shapes the future of the industry and ensures profitable growth. Launched in June 2013, The Shift Plan is a three-year plan. With regard to the headcount reductions envisaged by The Shift Plan, the process of distributing information to and negotiating with the unions is ongoing and we are on track with our target. At the end of 2014, our workforce comprised 52,673 people, a decrease of 6,843 compared to the previous year, taking into account the sale of our Enterprise activities. For further information, please refer to Section 6.6 “Strategy and Outlook”. Compensation Our policy is for all employees to be fairly paid regardless of gender, ethnic origin or disability. We remain committed to providing our employees with a competitive compensation package in line with those of other major companies in the technology sector. We place particular emphasis on ensuring the development of our employees, rewarding the skills that drive innovation and ensuring long-term employee engagement through appropriate policies, processes and recognition tools. Our compensation strategy also aligns with The Shift Plan and strives to strike a balance among the following elements: Speed, simplicity, trust and accountability. This includes the implementation of common bonus plans, sales incentives and equity grants to ensure a consistent, global approach to compensation; the clear communication of performance 146 Table of Contents SUSTAINABILITY Human resources achievement levels and policies; and having employees set and review yearly performance targets with their managers. In 2014, a new variable incentive plan (excluding the sales population) was implemented featuring corporate, business unit and individual key performance indicators to enable employees to have greater visibility into and influence over their achievement and rewards. The grants of long-term incentives (that is, stock options and performance shares) are decided by our Board of Directors upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee. Their implementation serves several purposes, including: · involving employees in Alcatel-Lucent’s results and in the achievement of The Shift Plan; · encouraging and rewarding performance; and · attracting and retaining talent in a highly competitive industry where quality and employee motivation are key factors for success. Employees benefiting from equity may dispose of the shares and/or options at the end of the vesting or acquisition period to the extent the presence and/or the performance conditions are met. Employee compensation evolution (that is, wages and salaries) over the last three years is set forth in Note 30 to our consolidated financial statements. 9.2.3 Training Alcatel-Lucent University The mission of Alcatel-Lucent University is to improve the performance of our employees, partners and customers and build the skills required for business success through: · learning and development initiatives which are aligned with the strategic priorities of our Company; · state-of-the-art learning facilities and e-learning components; · technical certifications for customers, partners and employees offering professional standing in key technologies; · accreditation programs targeting key Alcatel-Lucent job positions for employees; · a learner-centric approach that enables individuals to achieve proficiency in areas relevant to their particular organization, job role and career interests. All learning hours are tracked through a formal learning management system that provides auditable learning volume reports. The University has introduced a personal, community-based learning application called My Personal Learning Experience (or My PLE), which allows students to better drive and manage their own learning programs. Designed around learning communities where students can share best practices, My PLE makes it easier for students to learn from their peers and from content experts - which, in turn, help to make learning more relevant to the job. Achievements In 2014, Alcatel-Lucent University delivered a total of 1.2 million hours of training to more than 91,000 total students1 across 169 countries: 47% were external learners and 53% were internal learners2. In 2014, the University delivered an average of 11 hours of training per internal learner. 9.2.4 Diversity and equal opportunity As a global enterprise, we actively seek to ensure that our employees reflect the diversity of our business environment. Our Global Human Rights Policy clearly confirms our responsibility to ensure equal opportunities for employees and to recognize and respect the diversity of people and ideas. Our commitment to advancing equality and non-discrimination is also reflected in specific initiatives against harassment and discrimination. Gender diversity Our global strategy At the end of 2011, we implemented a global strategy and action plan that assigned responsibility for gender diversity at the organizational, corporate and country levels, and identified actions to be carried out in five focus areas: · Awareness building: in 2014, we continued our work with a series of interactive sessions on gender diversity, addressing 500 managers and leaders to help them understand why diversity is a business imperative for Alcatel-Lucent and to build their awareness of workplace gender dynamics - all with the aim to better tap our existing talent and improve organizational performance. · Leadership – Supporting female leaders: in 2014, we launched the TOP10 Women Program to support women’s career development, offering to 10 participants in each region a mix of business sponsorship, executive coaching, TOP10 mentoring and networking over a one-year period. – Leadership Pipeline: as of December 2014, women account for 22% of our Leadership Pipeline. 147 Table of Contents 9 SUSTAINABILITY Human resources · Staffing/recruitment: 33% of external hires over the past year were women, an increase of 10% from the previous period. · Work/life balance: to support a better work/life balance for employees - women as well as men - we now have teleworking policies in all key countries worldwide. Our internal networking and learning platforms are being used to educate employees on the benefits and best practices of teleworking, helping to make flexible work practices more prevalent for men and women alike. · Equal pay for equal work: we continue to comply with legal obligations, including gender-pay, in the countries in which we operate. As mentioned in the first bullet, our awareness-building sessions on gender diversity, attended by 500 managers in 2014, create a foundation for renewed success in this focus area. Integration of disabled people We are committed to fostering the integration of people with disabilities into our workforce and creating access solutions for them. Commitment to non-discrimination Our commitment to advancing equality and non-discrimination is reflected in specific initiatives against harassment and discrimination in several countries (in particular, France and the United States). We continue to offer to our employees, individuals and managers, awareness resources on best practices to support lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people (LGBT) on the workplace. For the thirteenth consecutive year, Alcatel-Lucent was recognized by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation with a perfect score on the Corporate Equality Index, which rates American workplaces on LGBT equality. 148 Table of Contents Listing and shareholdings 10 10.1 Information concerning our Company 150 10.2 Capital 156 10.3 Shareholding 169 10.4 Stock exchange information 174 10.5 Shareholders’ Meetings 176 149 Table of Contents 10 LISTING AND SHAREHOLDINGS Information concerning our Company 10.1 Information concerning our Company 10.1.1 Legal information Company name and head office Alcatel Lucent 148/152 route de la Reine, 92100 Boulogne-Billancourt. Telephone :+33 1 55 14 10 10 Commercial name Alcatel-Lucent Corporate structure and applicable law French limited liability company subject to all the regulations governing commercial entities in France, particularly the provisions of the French Commercial Code. Date of incorporation and expiry date The Company was incorporated on June 18, 1898 and will expire on June 30, 2086, unless there is an early dissolution or extension. Corporate purpose The Company’s corporate purpose is the design, manufacture, operation and sale of all equipment, material and software related to domestic, industrial, civil, military or other applications concerning electricity, telecommunications, computers, electronics, aerospace industry, nuclear energy, metallurgy, and, in general, of all the means of production or transmission of energy or communications (cables, batteries and other components), as well as, secondarily, all activities relating to operations and services in connection with the above-mentioned means worldwide. It may acquire interests in any company, regardless of its form, in associations, French or foreign business groups, whatever their corporate purpose and activity may be and, in general, may carry out any industrial, commercial, financial, assets or real estate transactions, in connection, directly or indirectly, totally or partially, with any of the corporate purposes set out in Article 2 of the Articles of Association and with all similar or related purposes. Registration number at the registry of commerce The Company is registered at the Nanterre Commerce and Companies Registry under number 542 019 096. Its APE business activity code is 7010 Z. Fiscal year Our fiscal year begins on January 1st and ends on December 31st. 10.1.2 Specific provisions of the bylaws and of law The data set out below are extracts from our Articles of Association (Articles 7, 9, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 18, 21, 22 and 24), and a summary of certain legal and regulatory provisions applicable to companies having their registered office in France and whose securities are listed on a regulated market. Holding of shares and obligations of the shareholders A) Form The shares are not represented by a certificate. Bearer shares are recorded in the books of the financial intermediary (bank or broker) in the name of the shareholder with Euroclear. Shares are registered until the nominal value is fully paid. Fully paid shares may be in registered or bearer form at the shareholder’s choice up until the shareholder reaches a threshold of 3% of the total number of shares. Once the threshold of 3% of the Company’s total number of shares is reached, the shares must be registered as described in paragraph B) below. The obligation to register shares applies to all the shares already held as well as to any shares which may be acquired subsequently in excess of this threshold. B) Exceeding the thresholds of the Articles of Association In accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association, any individual or legal entity and/or shareholder that comes to own a number of shares in the Company equal to or above 2% of the total number of shares must, within a period of five trading days from the date on which this share ownership threshold is exceeded, inform the Company of the total number of shares owned, by letter or fax. A further notification must be sent in the same manner each time a new threshold of 1% is exceeded. If the threshold of 3% of the total number of shares is exceeded, the shareholder must, within a period of five trading days from 150 Table of Contents LISTING AND SHAREHOLDINGS Information concerning our Company the date on which this share ownership threshold is reached, request the registration of the shares. The copy of the request for registration, sent by letter or fax to the Company within fifteen days from the date on which this share ownership threshold is exceeded, is deemed to be a notification that the threshold has been reached. A further request must be sent in the same manner each time a further threshold of 1% is exceeded, up to 50%. For purposes of the calculation of the thresholds, indirectly held shares and shares which are considered to be owned pursuant to Articles L. 233-7 et seq. of the French Commercial Code must be taken into account. In each notification referred to above, the shareholder must certify that all securities held indirectly as well as the shares considered to be owned are included. The notification must also indicate the date(s) of acquisition. These obligations of share notification and registration apply to the holders who own shares through ADSs. If a shareholder fails to comply with the provisions relating to notification that the thresholds have been exceeded, the voting rights for the shares exceeding the thresholds are, at the request of one or more shareholders holding at least 3% of the share capital, suspended under the conditions provided by law. Any shareholder whose shareholding falls below either of the thresholds provided for above must also inform the Company thereof, within the same period of five trading days and in the same manner. C) Exceeding the legal thresholds Beyond the notification obligations provided for in our Articles of Association, French law requires that any individual or legal entity, acting alone or in concert, which comes to hold (including through ADSs) a total number of shares above 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 331/3%, 50%, 662/3%, 90% or 95% of the capital or of the voting rights of a company, notify the company and the AMF. The same notification obligation applies to any individual or legal entity holding a total number of shares representing between 30% and 50% of the capital or voting rights, and that, within less than twelve consecutive months, increases such shareholding by at least 1% of the capital or voting right of the company (referred to as the “speed-limit excess” rule). The 30% threshold and the “speed-limit excess” create an obligation for the concerned shareholder to launch a tender offer, as described below. Pursuant to Article L.233-9 I 4° and 4°bis of the French Commercial Code the issued shares or the voting rights that the reporting entity is entitled to acquire at its sole initiative, immediately or in the future, under the terms of an agreement or a financial instrument and the shares already issued or the voting rights covered by an agreement or a financial instrument to be paid exclusively in cash which has economic effect for the reporting entity or individual similar to holding shares (e.g., cash-settled equity swaps, knock-in options), must also be taken into account for the calculation of the thresholds subject to notification. Moreover, the “separate disclosure” requirement imposes an obligation to disclose additional information on the following agreements and financial instruments: (i) securities giving access to shares in the future and (ii) shares already issued that the shareholder is entitled to acquire under the terms of an agreement or a financial instrument, based on the initiative of a third party. The deadline to notify the AMF and the issuer is of four trading days (before the market or the trading system closes), after the day on which the threshold is reached. A notification must also be made within the same timeframe when the holding in capital or voting rights falls below the above-mentioned thresholds, but not in the event the “speed-limit excess” occurs downwards due to sale(s) of shares or dilution of the shareholding. In the event of a failure to appropriately notify that these thresholds have been exceeded, the voting rights of the shares in excess of the threshold that should have been notified are suspended for any Shareholders’ Meeting that might be held up to the expiration of a period of two years from the date when the notification is eventually filed. Four thresholds of respectively 10%, 15%, 20% and 25% create an obligation of declaration of intent as defined under Article L.233-7 of the French Commercial Code. The deadline to notify the Company and the AMF is of five trading days (before the market closes). D) Shareholders’ agreements Any clause of a shareholders’ agreement which includes preferential conditions to transfer or to acquire shares listed on a regulated market and relating to at least 0.5% of the Company’s capital or voting rights, must be disclosed to the Company and to the AMF within five trading days from the date of the signature of such agreement. E) Holdings triggering the mandatory filing of a tender offer When an individual or legal entity, acting alone or in concert, comes to hold 30% of the capital or voting rights of the Company, or, while holding a total number of shares between 30% and 50%, comes to increase such holding by at least 1% within less than 12 months, it must immediately inform the AMF and launch a tender offer for all of the equity securities and securities giving access to the capital or voting rights of the Company. F) Information on the number of voting rights To allow shareholders to determine whether they have exceeded an ownership threshold, we publish the total number of voting rights monthly on our Internet site. G) Cross-shareholdings In accordance with French legislation relating to cross-shareholdings, a limited liability company may not own shares in another company if the latter holds more than 10% of the share capital of the former. In the event of cross-shareholdings that 151 Table of Contents 10 LISTING AND SHAREHOLDINGS Information concerning our Company violate this rule and unless an agreement is reached, the company owning the smaller percentage of shares in the other company must sell its stake. Until sold, the voting rights of these shares are suspended. In the case where the cross-shareholding is held by a subsidiary, the shares are simply deprived of voting rights. H) Identity of the holders In accordance with the laws and regulations in effect, and subject to the penalties provided therein, the Company may request from all organizations or authorized intermediaries any information concerning shareholders or holders of securities giving access, immediately or in the future, to voting rights, their identity, the number of securities held and any restrictions eventually applicable to the securities. Rights and obligations relating to the shares Shareholders are liable only up to the nominal amount of each share held. Any call for payment in excess of such amount is prohibited. Each share gives right to a portion of the Company’s profits, in the proportion prescribed by the Articles of Association. Dividends and other income from shares issued by the Company are paid under the conditions authorized or provided for under the regulations in effect and in such a manner as the Shareholders’ Meeting, or, alternatively, the Board of Directors may decide. A double voting right is granted to fully paid shares which have been held in registered form by the same person for at least three years. Rights and obligations remain attached to a share regardless of who holds the share. Ownership of a share entails automatic acceptance of the Company’s Articles of Association and resolutions of the Shareholders’ Meeting. Shares are indivisible vis-à-vis the Company: Joint owners of shares must be represented by a single person. Shares subject to usufruct must be identified as such in the share registration. Changes in the capital A) Capital increases In accordance with applicable law, our capital may be increased by cash or in-kind contributions, pursuant to a resolution of the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting approved by two-thirds of the shareholders present or represented. This power may also be delegated to the Board of Directors. In the event of a delegation to the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer may be granted specific powers to complete the capital increase. The capital may also be increased: · by the capitalization of reserves, profits or issuance premium pursuant to a decision of the shareholders at an Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting taken with the approval of a simple majority of the shareholders present or represented; · in case of payment of a dividend in shares decided by an Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting; or · upon tender of securities or rights giving access to the Company’s capital (bonds convertible into shares, bonds repayable in shares, warrants to purchase shares or other securities). B) Capital decreases The capital may be decreased pursuant to a decision of two-thirds of the shareholders present or represented at an Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, either by decreasing the nominal value of the shares or by reducing the number of shares outstanding. Management of the Company Our Company is managed by a Board of Directors consisting of at least six and not more than fourteen members. Each Director must hold at least 500 Alcatel Lucent shares. Directors’ term of office - age limit The Directors are elected for a period of three years. Exceptionally, the shareholders may appoint a Director for a period of one or two years in order to stagger the Director’s terms of office. Outgoing Directors may be re-elected subject to the following provisions. A Director appointed to replace another Director holds office only for the remainder of his predecessor’s term of office. The maximum age for holding a directorship is 70. This age limit does not apply if less than one third rounded up to the nearest whole number, of serving Directors have reached the age of 70. No Director over 70 may be appointed if, as a result, more than one third of the serving Directors rounded up as defined above, are over 70. If for any reason whatsoever the number of serving Directors over 70 should exceed one third as defined above, the oldest Director(s) shall automatically be deemed to have retired at the ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting called to approve the accounts of the fiscal year in which the proportion of Directors over 70 years was exceeded, unless the proportion was re-established in the meantime. Directors representing legal entities are taken into account when calculating the number of Directors to which the age limit does not apply. Legal entities that are represented on the Board must replace any 70 year-old representative no later than at the ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting called to approve the accounts of the fiscal year in which such representative reached the age of 70. The age limitations apply to any Chairman of the Board of Directors, provided that such Chairman is not at the same time the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, in which case the age limitation of 68 shall apply. 152 Table of Contents LISTING AND SHAREHOLDINGS Information concerning our Company Powers and responsibilities of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors is vested with all the powers granted to it by the current legislation. The Board determines the business strategies of the Company and ensures their implementation. Subject to the authority expressly reserved for the Shareholders’ Meeting, and within the limits of the corporate purpose, the Board of Directors addresses any question that affects the Company’s operations and governs the affairs of the Company through its deliberations. The Board of Directors decides whether the management of the Company will be performed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors or by a Chief Executive Officer. Chairman, Vice-Chairmen, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice-Presidents and Secretary The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the general management of the Company, unless the Board of Directors decides to entrust the general management to the Chairman of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors appoints from among its members, upon the affirmative vote of the majority of the Directors present or represented, a Chairman for a term not exceeding the term of his or her position as a Director. The Board of Directors may remove the Chairman at any time, upon the affirmative vote of the majority of the Directors present or represented. The Chairman of the Board of Directors performs the missions assigned to him by law and notably must ensure the proper functioning of the Company’s governing bodies. He chairs the meetings of the Board of Directors, organizes the work of the Board and ensures that the Directors are able to fulfill their mission. The Board of Directors may appoint, if it so wishes, one or more Vice-Chairmen, and set their term of office, which may not exceed their term as Director. The Vice-Chairman, or the most senior Vice-Chairman, performs the duties of the Chairman when the Chairman is unable to do so. If it does not assign the general management of the Company to the Chairman, the Board of Directors appoints, whether among its members or not, upon the affirmative vote of the majority of the Directors present or represented, a Chief Executive Officer for a term determined by it, not to exceed the term of his or her position as a Director, if applicable. The Board of Directors may remove the Chief Executive Officer at any time, upon the affirmative vote of the majority of the Directors present or represented. The Chief Executive Officer is vested with the fullest power to act in all circumstances in the name of the Company, within the limits of the corporate purpose, the limitations set by the Board of Directors (as previously described in Section 7.1.2 “Principles of organization of our Company’s management”) and subject to the powers that the law expressly bestows on the Shareholders’ Meetings and on the Board of Directors. The Chief Executive Officer represents the Company in its relations with third parties. He represents the Company before the courts. When the Chairman of the Board of Directors assumes the management of the Company, the provisions of this section and the law governing the Chief Executive Officer apply to him. Upon the proposal of the Chief Executive Officer, the Board of Directors may authorize one or more persons to assist him, as Executive Vice-Presidents. The maximum number of Executive Vice-Presidents that may be appointed has been set at five. The scope and term of the powers delegated to Executive Vice-Presidents is determined by the Board of Directors in agreement with the Chief Executive Officer. In their relations with third parties, Executive Vice-Presidents have the same authority as the Chief Executive Officer. In the event the office of Chief Executive Officer becomes vacant, the functions and powers of the Executive Vice-Presidents continue until the appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer, unless otherwise decided by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Chairman or Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer themselves and the Executive Vice-Presidents may, within the limits set by law, delegate such powers as they deem fit, either for the management or conduct of the Company’s business or for one or more specific purposes, to all authorized agents, whether members of the Board or not or part of the Company or not, individually or as committees. Such powers may be permanent or temporary and may or may not be delegated to deputies. The Board shall appoint a secretary and may also appoint a deputy secretary on the same terms. Age limit for corporate executives The Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice-Presidents may hold office for the period set by the Board of Directors, but this period may not exceed their term of office as Directors, if applicable, nor in any event may such period extend beyond the date of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting called to approve the financial statements for the fiscal year in which they shall have reached 68 years of age. The same age limit applies to the Chairman when he is also the Chief Executive Officer. When the Chairman does not also occupy the position of Chief Executive Officer, he may hold the office of Chairman for the period set by the Board of Directors, but this period shall not exceed his term as Director, as well as the age limit set for the Directors. 153 Table of Contents 10 LISTING AND SHAREHOLDINGS Information concerning our Company Board Observers Upon the proposal of the Chairman, the Board of Directors must in turn propose to the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting the appointment of two Observers satisfying the conditions described below. The Board Observers are invited and participate in Board meetings, but have no vote. They are appointed for three years. Exceptionally the shareholders may appoint a Board Observer for a period of two years in order to stagger the Board Observer’s terms of office. Outgoing Board Observers may be renewed. They must, at the time of their appointment, be both employees of Alcatel Lucent or a company of the Group, and members of a mutual investment fund as described below. Any mutual investment fund which satisfies the conditions defined below may propose to the Board candidates with a view to their being appointed as Observers. For purposes of the preceding requirements: · a company of the Alcatel Lucent group is a company in which Alcatel Lucent holds directly or indirectly at least one half of the voting rights and/or any company in which a company of the Alcatel Lucent group holds directly or indirectly at least one half of the voting rights; · the mutual investment funds referred to above are those created pursuant to a corporate savings plan in which the Company or a Group company participates, and where the portfolio includes at least 75% of Alcatel Lucent shares. Upon the Chairman’s recommendation, the Board of Directors may propose to the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting the appointment of one or several additional Observers who do not fulfill the conditions above who may or may not be shareholders, but the total number of Observers may not exceed six. The Observers receive an annual remuneration, set at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting and allocated by the Board of Directors. Shareholders’ Meetings The General or Special Shareholders’ Meeting are convened and held under the conditions provided by law. The decisions of the Shareholders’ Meeting are binding on all shareholders, including those not present or who dissent. Meetings take place at the registered office or any other place specified in the notice of meeting. All shareholders may attend the meeting in person, or vote by mail or by proxy, upon presentation of proof of identity and upon proof of registration of the securities in their name on the beginning (0:00 hour, Paris time) of the second working day preceding the Shareholders’ Meeting, either in the Company’s accounts of registered securities, or in the bearer share accounts held by a duly authorized intermediary. Subject to the conditions defined by regulations and in accordance with the procedures defined beforehand by the Board of Directors, the shareholders may participate and vote in all General or Special Shareholders’ Meetings by video- conference or any electronic communication method, including Internet, that allows for their identification. Subject to the conditions set by the regulations in effect, the shareholders may send their proxy or mail voting form for any General or Special Shareholders’ Meeting either in paper form or, upon decision of the Board reflected in the notices of the meeting, by electronic transmission. The electronic signature of the form consists, upon prior decision of the Board of Directors, in a process of identifying which safeguards its link with the electronic form to which it relates by a login and password or any other process in the conditions defined by regulations in force. In order to be considered, all necessary forms for votes by mail or by proxy must be received at the Company’s registered office or at the location stated in the notice of the meeting at least three days before any Shareholders’ Meeting. This time limit may be shortened by decision of the Board of Directors. Instructions given electronically that include a proxy or power of attorney may be accepted by the Company under the conditions and within the deadlines set by the regulations in effect. The meeting may be broadcasted by video-conference and/or electronic transmission. If applicable, this should be mentioned in the notices of meeting. All shareholders having expressed their vote electronically, sent a power of attorney or asked for their admission card or a certificate of participation may nevertheless transfer all or part of the shares for which they have voted electronically, sent a power of attorney or asked for an admission card or a confirmation. However, if the transfer of ownership is made between the day on which the vote has been electronically expressed, or the power of attorney sent, or the admission card or a confirmation of participation requested, and the beginning (0:00 hour, Paris time) of the second working day preceding the meeting, the Company, upon notification of the intermediary authorized to hold the account, will invalidate or modify as a result, as the case may be, the electronic vote, the power of attorney, the admission card or confirmation. No transfer of ownership or any transaction made after the second working day preceding the meeting, 0:00 hour, Paris time, whatever the means used, shall be notified by the authorized intermediary or taken into account by the Company, notwithstanding any agreement to the contrary. The Shareholders’ Meeting is chaired either by the Chairman or one of the Vice-Chairmen of the Board of Directors, or by a Director appointed by the Board or by the Chairman. The shareholders appoint the officers of the meeting, that is, the Chairman, two scrutineers and a secretary. The scrutineers are the two shareholders attending the meeting representing the largest number of votes or, should they refuse, those who come after in descending order until the duties are accepted. Copies or extracts of the minutes may be authenticated by the Chairman of the Board, the secretary of the Shareholders’ Meeting, or the Director appointed to chair the meeting. The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting may deliberate on a first call only if the shareholders present or represented hold at least one- 154 Table of Contents LISTING AND SHAREHOLDINGS Information concerning our Company fifth of the shares with voting rights. No quorum is required for a meeting held upon a second call. The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting may deliberate on a first call only if the shareholders present or represented hold at least one-quarter of the shares with voting rights, and one-fifth of the shares with voting rights in the event of a second call. Voting rights At the General Shareholders’ Meeting held on June 1, 2007, the shareholders voted to eliminate the statutory limitation on voting rights at Shareholders’ Meetings; as a result and subject to what is described below, each member at every meeting has the right to as many votes as the number of shares that he owns or represents. However, fully paid registered shares, registered in the name of the same holder for at least three years, have double voting rights. In accordance with Article L. 225-99, paragraph 2 of the French Commercial Code, the elimination of double voting rights must be decided by the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, with the authorization of a special meeting of holders of these rights. Double voting rights are cancelled automatically for any share that is converted into a bearer share or the ownership of which is transferred. However, the period mentioned above is interrupted, and the right acquired is preserved, in the event of a transfer from registered to registered form, as a result of intestate or testamentary succession, the division between spouses of a common estate, or donation inter vivos in favor of a spouse or heirs. Voting rights in all Ordinary, Extraordinary or Special Shareholders’ Meetings belong to the usufructuary. Appropriation of the result - dividend The difference between the proceeds and the expenses of the fiscal year, after provisions, constitutes the profits or losses for the fiscal year. An amount equal to 5% of the profits, minus previous losses, if any, is deducted in order to create the legal reserve, until such legal reserve is at least equal to 1/10th of the capital. Additional contributions to the legal reserve are required if the legal reserve falls below that fraction for any reason. The distributable profits, that is, the profits for the fiscal year minus the previous losses and the deduction mentioned above, plus income carried over, is available to the Shareholders’ Meeting which, upon proposal of the Board, may decide to carry over some or all of the profits, to allocate them to general or special reserve funds or to distribute them to the shareholders as a dividend. In addition, the Shareholders’ Meeting may decide the distribution of sums deducted from the optional reserves, either as a dividend or as a supplemental dividend, or as a special distribution. In this case, the decision must clearly indicate the reserves from which said sums are deducted. However, the dividends must be deducted first from the distributable profits of the fiscal year. The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting may grant each shareholder, for all or part of the dividend distributed or the interim dividend, the option to receive payment of the dividend or interim dividend in cash or in shares. The Shareholders’ Meeting or the Board of Directors, in the event of an interim dividend, must determine the date as of which the dividend is paid. 10.1.3 Elements which could have an impact in case of public tender offer (information required by Article L. 225-100-3 of the French Commercial Code) Article L. 225-100-3 of the French Commercial Code requires disclosure of those elements which could have an impact in case of a public tender offer. The following elements could have such an impact with respect to Alcatel Lucent: · the distribution of capital and voting rights shown below; · to ensure the stability in all circumstances of the Group’s business and employees who are essential to its development, our Board of Directors is authorized, in the event of a takeover bid for Alcatel Lucent, a tender offer for our shares or a procedure to delist our shares, to decide to accelerate the vesting of all outstanding options (other than those held by individuals who were Executive Directors on the option grant date or on the date of the Board’s decision), and give the right to exercise the options immediately, notwithstanding any holding period. Further, the members of the Leadership Team, excluding the Chief Executive Officer, benefit from an acceleration of the vesting of the rights attached to their stock-options in case of a change in control; · the manner in which the employee shareholding system functions when the employees do not exercise their rights directly: Pursuant to Article L. 214-40 of the French Monetary and Financial Code, the Supervisory Board of the FCP 2AL Mutual Fund decides whether to tender the shares to the tender or exchange offer. 155 Table of Contents 10 LISTING AND SHAREHOLDINGS Capital 10.2 Capital 10.2.1 Amount of the capital and categories of shares Capital at year end. On February 5, 2015, the Board of Directors determined that the amount of the capital at December 31, 2014, amounted to EUR 141,021,613.50, represented by 2,820,432,270 fully paid ordinary shares, each with a nominal value of EUR 0.05. 10.2.2 Purchase of Alcatel Lucent shares by the Company In 2014, we did not effect any transactions pursuant to our share repurchase program. At December 31, 2014, Alcatel Lucent held directly 13,010,214 shares, representing 0.46% of the capital. At that date, our subsidiaries held 27,110,113 shares, representing 0.96% of our capital. At December 31, 2014, these shares were booked as a deduction from consolidated shareholders’ equity. Following a resolution of the Board of Directors on March 19, 2014, the treasury shares are allocated to the following objectives: · to retain for subsequent use in respect of external growth transactions (approximately 42.8 million of treasury shares); · to meet obligations arising from options carrying the right to purchase existing shares (1 million of treasury shares); · to pay the variable compensation of the members of the Leadership team in part with treasury shares (8 million of treasury shares). At the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 28, 2014, the shareholders authorized the Board of Directors with a right of sub-delegation in accordance with law, for a period of 18 months, to repurchase Alcatel Lucent shares up to a maximum of 10% of the capital of the Company. The maximum purchase price per share may not exceed EUR 20 and the minimum selling price may not be less than the nominal value of the share, that is, EUR 0.05. This program has not been implemented since the approval by the shareholders of the corresponding resolution at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 28, 2014. At its meeting of February 5, 2015, the Board of Directors decided to propose a resolution to be voted upon at our next Shareholders’ Meeting, to be held on May 26, 2015, to cancel the existing authorization, and to give the Board a new 18 month authorization for a share repurchase program. Description of the repurchase program pursuant to articles 241-1 and following of the AMF rules Date of the Shareholders’ Meeting authorizing the program. At the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 28, 2014, the shareholders authorized the Board of Directors to repurchase Alcatel Lucent shares up to a maximum of 10% of the capital of the Company for a period of 18 months. The renewal of this authorization to the Company to purchase its own shares for a new period of 18 months will be submitted for approval to the shareholders at the Shareholders’ Meeting to be held on May 26, 2015. Number of shares and percentage of capital held directly or indirectly by the Company. At December 31, 2014, the Company held 13,010,214 shares directly and 27,110,113 shares indirectly. Goals of the repurchase program. The goals of the current repurchase program and those to be presented to the shareholders at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 26, 2015 in relation to the renewal of this program are: · to cancel some or all of the shares so purchased by decreasing the Company’s share capital under the conditions provided by law; · to grant or sell purchased shares to employees and officers (“dirigeants”) of the Company or its affiliates or organizations under the terms and conditions provided by law (stock options, participation of employees in the Company’s profit, allocation of performance-related shares, etc.); · to comply with the Company’s obligations in respect of stock option plans or other allocations of shares to employees or corporate officers of the Company or of a related company; · to deliver shares upon the exercise of rights attached to securities giving access to the Company’s share capital and to carry out related hedging transactions pursuant to commitments undertaken by the Company (or any of its subsidiaries) with respect to such securities; · to hold and deliver shares (as exchange consideration, payment, or other) in particular in connection with external growth transactions carried out by the Company, or mergers, spin-offs or contributions; · to engage in market making in the secondary market or maintenance of the liquidity of the Alcatel Lucent share through an investment services provider pursuant to a liquidity contract that complies with the ethical code recognized by the AMF. The repurchase program is also intended to allow the implementation of any market practice that may be permitted by the AMF in the future and more generally, the conclusion of any transaction that complies with applicable laws and regulations. In 156 Table of Contents LISTING AND SHAREHOLDINGS Capital such a case, the Company will inform its shareholders through a press release. Repurchase terms and conditions. Acquisitions, sales and transfers of shares may be made at any time subject to the limits, in particular relating to volume and price, authorized under applicable laws and regulations (except during the period of a public tender offer on Alcatel Lucent shares) and by any means, either through regulated markets, multilateral trading systems, systematic internalizers or by way of a private placement or otherwise, including by block purchases or sales, by public tender offer or public exchange offer, or through the use of options or other derivative financial instruments whether traded on regulated markets or through multilateral trading systems, via a systematic internalizer or by way of a private placement or otherwise or by delivery of shares arising from the issuance of securities giving access to the capital of the Company by conversion, exchange, redemption, presentation of a warrant or any other means, either directly or through an investment services provider, under the conditions set forth by the market authorities. Maximum share of capital, maximum number and characteristics of shares, maximum purchase price. The program concerns the shares of Alcatel Lucent (ISIN FR0000130007) listed on Euronext Paris stock exchange -Compartment A. The maximum percentage that may be purchased under each of the current authorization and the one to be proposed to the shareholders at the Shareholders’ Meeting on May 26, 2015 is 10% of the total number of shares comprising the capital on the date of purchase. In view of the number of shares that comprised our capital at December 31, 2014, for information purposes this limit represents 282,043,227 shares or, based on the maximum authorized purchase price (EUR 20), a maximum theoretical amount of EUR 5,640,864,540, not including the shares already held by the Company. However, in the event of transactions affecting the Company’s share capital, and in particular, of a capital increase through the capitalization of reserves, the allocation of free shares, in particular performance-related shares, a stock split or reverse stock split, a change in nominal value or any other transaction affecting the equity capital, the Board of Directors may adjust the maximum purchase price set forth above in order to take into account the impact of these transactions on the value of the shares. Duration of the program. The current share repurchase program as approved by the shareholders at the Shareholders’ Meeting held on May 28, 2014 is in place for a duration of 18 months as of its approval, that is, until November 28, 2015. In accordance with the resolution to be submitted to the approval of the shareholders at the Shareholders’ Meeting on May 26, 2015, the current share repurchase program would be cancelled and the new program will be able to be implemented over a period of 18 months following the date of that approval, that is, until November 26, 2016. 157 Table of Contents 10 LISTING AND SHAREHOLDINGS Capital 10.2.3 Authorizations related to the capital Outstanding authorizations Currently, we have the following authorizations to issue capital and repurchase and/or cancel our shares, which authorizations were approved at our Shareholders’ Meeting on May 28, 2014. OUTSTANDING AUTHORIZATIONS Nature Caracteristics (ceiling, discount) % Capital Utilization Remaining % Capital AUTHORIZATIONS - VALIDITY: 18 MONTHS Share repurchase (resolution 11 ShM 2014) - 10% None 10% Share cancellation (resolution 12 ShM 2014) - 10% None 10% ISSUANCE OF SECURITIES - VALIDITY: 26 MONTHS Maximum global amount applicable to all dilutive and non-dilutive issuances: EUR 46.5 million (33% of the capital) Capital increase WITH PSR (resolution 13 ShM 2014) Global ceiling: EUR 46.5 million (930 million shares) ; Maximum nominal amount of debt securities: EUR 5 billion 33% 10%* 23%*** Capital increase WITHOUT PSR (resolution 14 to 17 and 19 ShM 2014) Public offer WITH priority subscription period(resolution 14 ShM 2014) Ceiling: EUR 28.25 million (565 million shares) ; Maximum nominal amount of debt securities: EUR 5 billion; Maximum discount of 5%; Priority subscription period of at least 5 days 20%** None 10%*** Maximum amount applicable to dilutive issuances and without priority subscription period: EUR 14.1 million (10% of the capital) Public offer WITHOUT priority subscription period(resolution 14 ShM 2014) Ceiling: EUR 14.1 million (282 million shares); Maximum nominal amount of debt securities: EUR 5 billion; Maximum discount of 5% 10% None 0%*** Private placement (Art L. 411-2 II of the French Monetary and Financial Code) (resolution 15 ShM 2014) Maximum discount of 5% 10% 10% 0%*** Greenshoe(resolution 16 ShM 2014) 15% of the initial issue 15% of the initial issue 15% of the initial issue N/A Contributions in kind(resolution 17 ShM 2014) - 10% None 0%*** Determination of price under public offer and private placement (resolution 19 ShM 2014) Flexibility of the reference period; Maximum discount of 5% 10% None N/A Capital increase by capitalization of reserves, profits, premiums(resolution 18 ShM 2014) EUR 5 billion - None - ISSUANCE RESERVED TO EMPLOYEES AND EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS - VALIDITY: 38 AND 26 MONTHS Performance shares (resolution 20 ShM 2014) Executive Directors : limit of 6% of the grants (that is, less than 0.12% of capital) ; Validity of 38 months 2% 0.37% 1.63% Stock-options (resolution 21 ShM 2014) Executive Directors: limit of 6% of the grants (that is, less than 0.12% of capital) ; Without discount; Validity of 38 months 2% None 2% Capital increase reserved to employees (resolution 22 ShM 2014) Maximum discount of 5%; Validity of 26 months 2% None 2% NB : Share capital at December 31, 2014: EUR 141 million, that is, 2,820.4 million shares with a nominal value of EUR 0.05. PSR : Preferential Subscription Right. * The 10% used correspond to the June, 2014 issuance through a private placement. ** To be counted towards the ceiling of 33% mentioned in resolution 13 related to the capital increase WITH PSR. *** Due to the issuance made in June 2014 through a private placement representing 10 % of the capital (this percentage being the maximum amount of the authorizations for the issuances WITHOUT PSR and WITHOUT priority subscription period). 158 Table of Contents LISTING AND SHAREHOLDINGS Capital Use of authorizations Issuance with cancellation of preferential subscription rights of shareholders. The Board of Directors was granted a delegation of authority by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 28, 2014, for a period of 26 months, to issue ordinary shares and any securities conferring a right to the capital of the Company, with cancellation of the preferential subscription rights of the shareholders of Alcatel Lucent, within the limit of EUR 14.1 million, that is, approximately 10% of our capital. In June 2014, as part of the Shift Plan, Alcatel-Lucent issued bonds convertible into Alcatel-Lucent Shares pursuant to the authorizations granted by the shareholders at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 28, 2014: On June 10, 2014, pursuant to resolutions 15, 16 and 19 approved by the shareholders at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 28, 2014, the Board launched an offering of bonds convertible into and/or exchangeable for new and/or existing shares (OCEANE) in two tranches (“2019 OCEANE” and “2020 OCEANE”). The amount of the 2019 OCEANE issuance was EUR 688.42 million corresponding to 167.5 million 2019 OCEANE of a nominal value of EUR 4.11 each. The amount of the 2020 OCEANE issuance was of EUR 460.28 million corresponding to 114.4 million 2020 OCEANE of EUR 4.02 each. The OCEANE offering was effected as a private placement pursuant to Article L. 411-2-II of the French Monetary and Financial Code, with exercise in full of the over-allotment option of 15% of the initial offering, that is, a total offering of EUR 1,148.7 million. Together with available cash, this issuance allowed the Group of to repay in full prior to its term the Senior Secured Credit Facility of an initial principal amount of U.S$1,750 million entered into by Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc., to extend its debt maturity and to reduce the cost of indebtedness. The early repayment on August 19, 2014, of the Senior Secured Credit Facility also allowed the first-priority pledges granted in connection with this Facility to be cancelled and released. Performance shares, stock options and purchase of shares: Our Board of Directors was given authorizations by the shareholders at the Shareholders’ Meeting held on May 28, 2014, which allowed it to grant performance shares. The grants effected in September 2014 represented 0.37% of the capital, compared to an overall ceiling of 2% of the capital for issuance of performance shares. The status of the use of the authorizations related to performance shares, stock options and options to purchase shares granted to the Board of Directors is described in Chapter 8 “Compensation and long term incentive”. 10.2.4 Diluted capital Our capital at December 31, 2014 was EUR 141,021,613.50, represented by 2,820,432,270 fully paid ordinary shares, each with a nominal value of EUR 0.05, and fully paid up. Total number of shares Capital at December 31, 2014 2,820,432,270 Alcatel Lucent stock options 124,455,977 Performance shares (1) 27,194,482 OCEANE 2018 (2) 370,378,501 OCEANE 2019 (2) 167,500,000 OCEANE 2020 (2) 114,499,995 Diluted capital at December 31, 2014 3,624,461,225 (1) For more details, see Section 8.1.4 “Summary table for the performance share plans”. (2) For a description of the dilutive instruments, see Section 10.2.5 “Shares or rights granting access to the capital”. 10.2.5 Shares or rights granting access to the capital Convertible debts securities issued by Lucent Technologies Inc. Convertible bonds. Lucent Technologies Inc. (or its affiliates) had issued debt securities convertible into Lucent Technologies, Inc. shares. As of the date of the business combination between historical Alcatel and Lucent, in accordance with the Board of Directors’ decision of November 30, 2006, these securities included the following and entitled holders to: · 44,463,075 Alcatel Lucent shares, concerning the 7.75% convertible trust preferred securities maturing on March 15, 2017; 159 Table of Contents 10 LISTING AND SHAREHOLDINGS Capital · 43,832,325 Alcatel Lucent shares, concerning the Series A convertible bonds (2.75% increased to 2.875%) maturing on June 15, 2023; · 55,087,690 Alcatel Lucent shares, concerning the Series B convertible bonds (2.75% increased to 2.875%) maturing on June 15, 2025. The unit price of the Alcatel Lucent shares issued through conversion of the above convertible debt securities is equal to the conversion or exercise price of these securities divided by the exchange ratio set in connection with the business combination between historical Alcatel and Lucent (that is, 0.1952 Alcatel share for one Lucent share), namely: · the equivalent in EUR, the day of the exercise or of the conversion, of U.S.$24.80 for the 7.75% convertible trust preferred securities; · the equivalent in EUR, the day of the exercise or of the conversion, of U.S.$17.11 for the Series A convertible bonds; · the equivalent in EUR, the day of the exercise or of the conversion, of U.S.$15.98 for the Series B convertible bonds. During fiscal year 2013, Alcatel-Lucent USA, Inc. repurchased all outstanding Series A and Series B convertible debt securities for a nominal amount of US$95 million for the Series A, and US$765 million for the Series B. The nominal value at December 31, 2013 of the outstanding convertible trust preferred securities issued by Lucent Technologies Capital Trust I amounted to US$931 million of 7.75% of convertible trust preferred securities. On January 13, 2014, we repaid these securities in full. Stock-options and other stock-based compensation instruments issued by Lucent Technologies Inc. As part of the business combination with Lucent, we agreed to issue Alcatel Lucent shares to holders of stock options and other stock-based compensation instruments (restricted stock units, performance shares and Directors’ deferrals) granted by Lucent Technologies Inc., in the event of such holders’ exercise or conversion of the rights attached to their instruments. As of November 30, 2006, the date of the business combination between historical Alcatel and Lucent, these instruments entitled their holders to a total of 311,307,596 common shares of Lucent Technologies Inc. Consequently, and in accordance with the decision made by our Board of Directors on November 30, 2006, acting on the authority granted by the shareholders at the Shareholders’ Meeting of September 7, 2006, Alcatel Lucent’s Coralec subsidiary issued to Lucent Technologies Inc., 60,767,243 bonds, each of which may be converted into one Alcatel Lucent share. When the Lucent stock options or other stock-based compensation instruments are exercised by their holders, Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. (formerly named Lucent Technologies Inc.) requests conversion of the corresponding number of convertible bonds and immediately delivers the number of Alcatel Lucent shares resulting from the conversion to those holders who have exercised their rights. At December 31, 2014, there were a total of 55,669,199 outstanding bonds convertible into Alcatel Lucent shares. However, none of these bonds may still be converted, given the cancellation of stock-options as of that same date. These bonds are not listed on any stock exchange. Redeemable notes (ORAs) Issues related to acquisitions Spatial Wireless. In 2004, we authorized the issuance by our subsidiary Coralec of debt represented by notes redeemable for Alcatel Lucent shares (ORAs), in order to allow for the acquisition of Spatial Wireless (United States). In connection with this acquisition, 18,988,334 notes redeemable for Alcatel Lucent shares were issued at a unit price of €11.91. The number of Alcatel Lucent shares issued since the issuance of the ORAs, to repay these notes, is 18,633,297 shares. There were no redemptions in 2013. Due to the expiry of all of the stock-options to which the ORAs related, these notes were bought back and then cancelled on December 19, 2014. Issues related to financial transactions OCEANE 2018. Pursuant to the authorization granted at the Shareholders’ Meeting of June 8, 2012, Alcatel-Lucent issued, on July 3, 2013, debt represented by bonds with a conversion and/or exchange option for new or existing shares (OCEANE). The issue concerned a principal amount of EUR 628,946,424, represented by 349,414,680 OCEANE with a unit value of EUR 1.80 (see Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements). The bonds, which are due on January 1, 2018, bear an annual interest rate of 4.25%. The principal purpose of the issue was to refinance the Group’s debt and the extension of its debt’s maturity. In the context of the capital increase resulting from the rights offering completed on December 9, 2013, the holders of OCEANE 2018 were informed that the conversion/exchange ratio of the OCEANE 2018, which was originally of 1 Alcatel Lucent share with a nominal value of EUR 0.05 for 1 OCEANE 2018 was adjusted and fixed at 1.06 Alcatel Lucent share with a nominal value of EUR 0.05 for 1 OCEANE 2018. On December 31, 2014, and taking into account the adjustment effected following the capital increase of December 9, 2013, 370,378,501 OCEANE 2018 remained outstanding, given that during fiscal year 2014, 1,060 of these bonds were subject to a conversion into Alcatel Lucent shares. OCEANE 2019 and 2020. On June 10, 2014, pursuant to the authorization granted by the shareholders at the Shareholders’ Meeting on May 28, 2014, we launched an offering of bonds convertible into and/or exchangeable for new and/or existing 160 Table of Contents LISTING AND SHAREHOLDINGS Capital shares (OCEANE) in two tranches (“2019 OCEANE” and “2020 OCEANE”). The amount of the 2019 OCEANE issuance was of EUR 688,425,000, corresponding to 167,500,000 2019 OCEANE of a nominal value of EUR 4.11 each. The amount of the 2020 OCEANE issuance was of EUR 460,289,979.90 corresponding to 114,499,995 2020 OCEANE of a nominal value of EUR 4.02 each (see Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements). The 2019 OCEANE do not bear interest. The 2020 OCEANE bear interest at an annual rate of 0.125%, payable semi-annually in arrears on January 30th and July 30th of each year. The purpose of that issuance was to allow the early repayment of the Senior Secured Credit Facility of an initial principal amount of $1,750 million entered into by Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc., to extend the Group’s debt maturity and to reduce the cost of indebtedness. Securities not convertible into equity At December 31, 2014, only one bond issue of Alcatel Lucent (parent company) remains outstanding. That is the 8.5% senior notes issue in the amount of EUR 192 million (maturing in January 2016) traded on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. 10.2.6 American Depositary Shares (ADS) Description of the ADS Each of our American Depositary Shares, or ADSs, represents one of our ordinary shares. Our ADSs trade on the New York Stock Exchange. The following is a summary of certain provisions of the deposit agreement for the ADSs and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the deposit agreement between Alcatel Lucent and JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A., and the holders from time to time of the ADSs. The form of the deposit agreement for the ADSs and the form of American depositary receipt (ADR) that represents our ADSs have been filed as exhibits to our registration statement on Form F-6 that we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 4, 2013. Copies of the deposit agreement are available for inspection at the principal office of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., located at 1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, Floor 21, New York, 10005-1401, and at the principal office of our custodian, BNP Paribas Securities Services, located at Grands Moulins de Pantin, 9 rue du Débarcadère, 93761 Pantin Cedex, France. Dividends, other distributions and rights To the extent practicable, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. will distribute to each holder of ADSs all distributions on deposited securities, in proportion to the number of deposited securities represented by such holder’s ADSs. To the extent that JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. deems any distribution below not practicable, it shall make the distribution as it deems practicable, including in foreign currency, securities or property, or the retention thereof as a deposited security. Cash dividends and cash distributions. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. will distribute cash resulting from a cash dividend or other cash distribution or the new proceeds of sales of any other distribution or portion thereof, subject to appropriate adjustment for taxes, withheld and the deduction of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.’s or its agents’ fees and expenses in (1) foreign currency conversion, (2) transferring foreign currency or U.S. dollars to the United States, (3) obtaining related government approvals or licenses, and (4) making any sale by public or private means in any commercially reasonable manner. Shares. If we distribute ordinary shares as a dividend or free distribution, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. will distribute to ADS holders new ADSs representing the shares. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. will distribute only whole ADSs. It will sell the shares that would have required the use of fractional ADSs and then distribute the proceeds in the same way it distributes cash. Rights. If we offer our holders of shares warrants or any other rights, including rights to acquire additional shares, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. will distribute such rights to holders of ADSs, to the extent that we timely furnish to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. evidence that it may lawfully do so (we have no obligation to do so). If we do not furnish such evidence and sales of the rights are practicable, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. shall distribute the net proceeds from the sales of such rights as it would cash. If we do not furnish such evidence and sales are not practicable, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. does not have to take any action (and the right may lapse). Other distributions. If JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. or the custodian receives a distribution of anything other than cash, shares, or rights, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. will distribute the property or securities to the ADS holders by any means that JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. deems equitable and practicable, or to the extent JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., after consultation with us, deems such a distribution not equitable and practicable, it may sell the property or securities and distribute the net proceeds of the sale to the ADS holders. Voting of the underlying shares. Under the deposit agreement, an ADS holder is entitled, subject to any applicable provisions of French law, our articles of association and bylaws and the deposited securities, to exercise voting rights pertaining to the shares represented by its ADSs. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. will send ADS holders, via mail or electronically (to those ADS holders who have consented to electronic delivery), English language summaries of any materials or documents provided by us for the purpose of exercising voting rights. In addition, if we so request, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. will send ADS holders a notice card or letter including instructions on how ADS holders may access the aforementioned summary through an Internet website, along with how a paper copy of such documents may be requested. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. will also send to ADS holders directions as to how to give it voting instructions, as 161 Table of Contents 10 LISTING AND SHAREHOLDINGS Capital well as a statement (which may be included in the documents described above) as to how the underlying ordinary shares will be voted if JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. receives blank or improperly completed voting instructions. Upon timely receipt of properly completed voting instructions, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. shall either, in its discretion, vote in accordance with the instructions or forward the instructions to the custodian for voting. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. shall not vote the shares other than in accordance with such instructions or in accordance with the statement described above regarding voting of shares for which it receives blank or improperly completed voting instructions. Holders are not guaranteed to receive the notice described above with sufficient time to enable the timely return of any voting instructions to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. ADSs shall be evidenced by direct registration of corresponding ADRs, unless the ADS holder notifies JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. that it would like the shares to be held in certificated form. Changes affecting deposited securities. If there is any change in par value or any split-up, consolidation, cancellation or other reclassification of deposited securities, or any recapitalization, reorganization, business combination or consolidation or sale of assets involving us, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. may, after consultation with us, and if reasonably requested by us, amend the form of ADR and distribute any additional or amended ADRs. If JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. does not amend the form of ADR or make a distribution to holders regarding the foregoing, or any net proceeds, then any securities that JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. receives in respect of deposited securities will become new deposited securities. Each ADS will automatically represent its share of the new deposited securities, unless JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. delivers new ADRs as described in the first sentence. Amendment of the deposit agreement. We may agree with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. to amend the form of the ADRs and the deposit agreement at any time, without the consent of the ADS holders. If any amendment adds or increases any fees or charges (other than taxes or other governmental charges) or prejudices an important right of ADS holders, it will not take effect as to outstanding ADSs until 30 days after JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. has sent the ADS holders a notice of the amendment. If any government or regulatory body adopts new laws or rules that require the amendment of the form of ADR in order to comply therewith, the form of ADR may be amended at any time, and may become effective before notice is given to holders or within any other time, as required for compliance. At the expiration of that 30-day period, each ADS holder will be considered by continuing to hold its ADSs to agree to the amendment and to be bound by the deposit agreement as so amended. The deposit agreement and the form of ADRs may not be amended to impair the ADS holder’s right to surrender its ADSs and receive the ordinary shares and any other property represented by the ADRs, except to comply with mandatory provisions of applicable law. Termination of the deposit agreement. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. will terminate the deposit agreement if we ask it to do so and will notify the ADS holders at least 30 days before the date of termination. However, if JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. has resigned or is removed, notice shall not be sent to the holders unless a successor depositary is not operating under the deposit agreement within 60 days. After termination of the deposit agreement, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. will no longer act under the deposit agreement, except to continue to: · receive and hold (or sell) dividends and other distributions pertaining to deposited securities; and · deliver deposited securities being withdrawn. At any time 90 days after notice of termination is provided to holders of ADSs, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. may instruct the custodian to register all securities with us in registered form (nominatif pur) in each ADS holder’s name, at which time we shall do so and provide notice to the holders. To the extent this is not done, as soon as practicable after 60 days after termination, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. may sell the deposited securities and hold the proceeds of the sale, together with any other cash then held by it, in trust for the pro rata benefit of ADS holders that have not surrendered their ADSs. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. will not have liability for interest on the sale proceeds or any cash it holds. Restrictions on the right to transfer or withdraw shares. In connection with the withdrawal of any ADS, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. may require proper endorsement and written withdrawal orders from the holder, and will transfer such shares to an appropriate account. At the request, risk and expense of an ADS holder, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. may deliver the shares to another place. Title to an ADS may be transferred when properly endorsed (for a certificated ADS) or upon receipt by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. of appropriate documentation. Prior to registration of transfer or withdrawal, we, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. or the custodian may require payment of certain taxes, fees, or other charges, as well as other documentation. Limitations on liability of depositary The deposit agreement expressly limits our obligations and the obligations of the depositary, and it limits our liability and the liability of the depositary. We and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.: · are not liable if either is prevented or delayed by law or circumstances beyond its control from performing its obligations under the deposit agreement; · are not liable if either exercises, or fails to exercise, any discretion permitted under the deposit agreement; · are obligated only to take the actions specifically set forth in the deposit agreement without gross negligence or willful misconduct; · have no obligation to become involved in a lawsuit or other proceeding related to the ADSs or the deposit agreement, unless indemnity satisfactory to it against all expense and liability is furnished as often as may be required; · are not liable for any action or inaction by it in reliance on the advice of legal counsel, accountants, any person presenting shares for deposit, any holder, or other believed to be competent to provide such advice; 162 Table of Contents LISTING AND SHAREHOLDINGS Capital · the depositary shall not be liable for the acts or omissions made by any securities depository, clearing agency or settlement system or the insolvency of the custodian to the extent the custodian is not a branch or affiliate of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.; · the depositary shall not be liable for the price received in connection with the sale of securities, the timing thereof, any error, delay in action, omission to act, default or negligence on the part of the parties retained in connection with any such sale; · the depositary shall not be liable for actions of the custodian, except under certain circumstances; and · may rely without any liability upon any written notice, request or other document believed by either of us to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper parties. Moreover, neither we nor the depositary nor any of our respective agents will be liable to any holder of ADSs for any indirect, special, punitive or consequential damages (including, without limitation, lost profits). Pursuant to the terms of the deposit agreement, we and the depositary have agreed to indemnify each other under certain circumstances. Fees paid by ADS holders The depositary collects its fees for delivery and surrender of ADSs directly from investors depositing shares or surrendering ADSs for the purpose of withdrawal or from intermediaries acting for them. The depositary collects fees for making distributions to investors by deducting those fees from the amounts distributed or by selling a portion of distributable property to pay the fees. Persons holding, depositing or withdrawing shares must pay For: U.S.$5.00 (or less) per 100 ADSs (or portion of 100 ADSs) Issuance of ADSs, including issuances resulting from a distribution of shares or rights or other property, including stock dividends or splits, or issuances pursuant to a merger or exchange of securities Surrendering of ADSs for the purpose of withdrawal, or cancellation or reduction for any other reason U.S.$0.02 (or less) per ADS U.S.$1.50 per ADR or ADRs Cash distributions pursuant to the deposit agreement Transfer of shares on our share register Other transfer or registration fees Registration of shares on our share register to or from the name of the depositary or its agent following the deposit or the withdrawal of shares U.S.$0.02 (or less) per ADS per year (or portion thereof) Administration expenses (this fee may be deducted from one or more cash dividends at the sole discretion of the depositary) Fees for distributions and sales of securities Fee in an amount equal to the fee amount that would have been charged if securities had been deposited but were instead distributed or sold, and the net cash proceeds distributed to holders Financial Transaction Tax - 0.2% French tax on the transfer of shares or ADSs, as discussed below in Taxation - Financial transaction tax on acquisitions of ordinary shares or ADSs Other taxes and other governmental charges the depositary or the custodian have to pay on any ADS or share underlying an ADS, for example, stock transfer taxes, stamp duty or withholding taxes As necessary Any charges incurred by the depositary or its agents for servicing the deposited securities As necessary Fees and payments from the depositary to us JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., has also agreed to reimburse us annually for certain expenses (subject to certain limitations) in connection with the ADR facility and to pay us annually a further amount which is a function of the issuance and cancellation fees and depositary service fees charged by the depositary to our ADS holders. In this context, and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014, the Company received 16.9 million US dollars from JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A. Ownership of shares by non-French persons Under French law and our bylaws, no limitation exists on the right of non-French residents or non-French shareholders to own or vote our securities. Any non-French resident (both E.U. and non-E.U.) must file an administrative notice (“déclaration administrative”) with the French authorities in connection with any transaction which, in the aggregate, would result in the direct or indirect holding by such non-French resident of at least 33.33% of the capital or the voting rights of a French company. 163 Table of Contents 10 LISTING AND SHAREHOLDINGS Capital The payment of all dividends to foreign shareholders must be effected through an accredited intermediary. All registered banks and credit establishments in France are accredited intermediaries. You should refer to Section 10.1.2 “Specific provisions of the bylaws and of law” for a description of the filings required based on shareholdings. Exchange controls Under current French exchange control regulations, no limits exist on the amount of payments that we may remit to residents of the United States. Laws and regulations concerning foreign exchange controls do require, however, that an accredited intermediary handle all payments or transfer of funds made by a French resident to a non-resident. Taxation The following is a general summary of the material U.S. federal income tax and French tax consequences to you of acquiring, holding or disposing of our ordinary shares or ADSs. It does not address all aspects of U.S. and French tax laws that may be relevant to you in light of your particular situation. It is based on the applicable tax laws, regulations and judicial decisions as of the date of this annual report, and on the Convention between the United States of America and the Republic of France for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to Taxes on Income and Capital dated as of August 31, 1994 entered into force on December 30, 1995, along with the 2004 Protocol thereto entered into force on December 21, 2006, and the 2009 Protocol thereto entered into force on December 23, 2009, all of which are subject to change (collectively, the “Treaty”), possibly with retroactive effect, or different interpretations. With respect to the U.S. tax matters discussed, this summary only applies to you if all of the following five points apply to you: · you own, directly or indirectly, less than 10% of our capital stock; · you are any one of (a), (b), (c) or (d) below: (a) an individual who is a citizen or resident of the United States for U.S. federal income tax purposes, (b) a corporation, or other entity taxable as a corporation, that is created in or organized under the laws of the United States or any political subdivision thereof, (c) an estate, the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income tax regardless of its source, or (d) a trust, if a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over its administration and one or more U.S. persons have the authority to control all of the substantial decisions of such trust, or certain electing trusts that were in existence on August 20, 1996 and were treated as domestic trusts on August 19, 1996; · you are entitled to the benefits of the Treaty under the “Limitations on Benefits” article contained in the Treaty; · you hold our ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets; and · your functional currency is the U.S. dollar. You generally will not be eligible for the reduced withholding tax rates under the Treaty if you hold our ordinary shares or ADSs in connection with the conduct of business through a permanent establishment or the performance of services through a fixed base in France, or you are a non-resident in the United States for U.S. tax purposes, in either case within the meaning of the Treaty. The following description of tax consequences should be considered only as a summary and does not purport to be a complete analysis of all potential tax effects of owning or disposing of our ordinary shares or ADSs. Special rules may apply to U.S. expatriates, insurance companies, tax-exempt organizations, regulated investment companies, real estate investment trusts, real estate mortgage investment conduits, financial institutions, persons subject to the alternative minimum tax, securities broker-dealers, traders in securities that elect to use a mark-to-market method of accounting for the securities’ holdings, and persons holding their ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a hedging, straddle, conversion transaction or other integrated investment, among others. Those special rules are not discussed in this annual report. This summary does not address all potential tax implications that may be relevant to you as a holder, in light of your particular circumstances. You should consult your tax advisor concerning the overall U.S. federal, state and local tax consequences, as well as the French tax consequences, of your ownership of our ordinary shares or ADRs and ADSs represented thereby. For purposes of the Treaty and the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), if you own ADSs evidenced by ADRs, you will be treated as the owner of the ordinary shares represented by such ADSs. Taxation of dividends Income Tax at the Progressive Rate or Withholding Tax. French resident individuals will be subject to taxation at the income tax progressive rate on only 60% of the dividends received by them from both French and foreign companies. This exemption will apply to any dividend distributed by a company that is subject to corporation tax or an equivalent tax and that is located in an EU member state or a country that has signed a tax treaty (which has an administrative assistance clause with the purpose of combating fraud and tax evasion) with France. Dividends paid to French resident individuals on or after January 1, 2013, are subject to a compulsory withholding tax at a flat rate of 21% as an installment payment against the final tax. French companies normally must deduct a 30% French withholding tax from dividends paid to non-resident of France. Under the Treaty, this withholding tax is reduced to 15% if your ownership of our ordinary shares or ADSs is not effectively connected with a permanent establishment or a fixed base that you have in France. Dividends paid to a resident in a non-cooperative state or territory (NCST) are subject to a withholding tax at a rate of 75%. 164 Table of Contents LISTING AND SHAREHOLDINGS Capital If your ownership of our ordinary shares or ADSs is not effectively connected with a permanent establishment or a fixed base that you have in France, we will withhold tax from your dividend at the reduced rate of 15%, provided that you (i) complete the French Treasury Form 5000-EN (Certificate of Residence), which establishes that you are a resident of the U.S. under the Treaty, (ii) have it certified either by the Internal Revenue Service or the financial institution that is in charge of the administration of the ordinary shares or ADSs, and (iii) send it to us before the date of payment of the dividend. If you have not completed and sent the Certificate of Residence before the dividend payment date under the “simplified” procedure, we will deduct French withholding tax at the rate of 30%. In that case, you may claim a refund from the French tax authorities under the “normal” procedure, provided that you (i) duly complete the Certificate of Residence and the French Treasury Form 5001-EN (ii) have the forms certified either by the Internal Revenue Service or the financial institution that is in charge of the administration of the ordinary shares or ADSs, and (iii) send both forms to us early enough to enable us to file them with the French tax authorities before December 31 of the second calendar year following the year during which the dividend is paid. You can obtain the Certificate of Residence, the Form 5001-EN and their respective instructions from the Depositary, the Internal Revenue Service or the French Centre des impôts des non-résidents, the address of which is 10 rue du Centre, TSA, 93465 Noisy-Le-Grand, France. Copies of the Certificate of Residence and Form 5001-EN may also be downloaded from the French tax authorities’ website (www.impots.gouv.fr). Any French withholding tax refund is generally expected to be paid within 12 months after you file the relevant French Treasury Form. However, it will not be paid before January 15, following the end of the calendar year in which the related dividend is paid. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, the gross amount of any distribution will be included in your gross income as dividend income to the extent paid or deemed paid out of our current or accumulated earnings and profits as calculated for U.S. federal income tax purposes. You must include the gross amount treated as a dividend in income in the year payment is received by you, which, if you hold ADSs, will be the year payment is received by the Depositary. Dividends paid by us will not give rise to any dividends-received deduction generally allowed to a U.S. corporation under Section 243 of the Code. Dividends paid by us generally will constitute foreign source “passive category” income for U.S. foreign tax credit purposes or, for some holders, “general category” income. Generally, a maximum U.S. federal income tax rate of 20% will apply to dividend income received by an individual (as well as certain trusts and estates) from a U.S. corporation or from a “qualified foreign corporation” provided certain holding period requirements are met. A non-U.S. corporation (other than a passive foreign investment company) generally will be considered to be a qualified foreign corporation if (i) the shares of the non-U.S. corporation are readily tradable on an established securities market in the United States, or (ii) the non-U.S. corporation is eligible for the benefits of a comprehensive U.S. income tax treaty determined to be satisfactory to the United States Department of the Treasury. The United States Department of the Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service have determined that the Treaty is satisfactory for this purpose. In addition, the United States Department of the Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service have determined that ordinary shares, or an ADR in respect of such shares (which would include the ADSs), are considered readily tradable on an established securities market if they are listed on an established securities market in the United States such as The New York Stock Exchange. Information returns reporting dividends paid to U.S. persons will identify the amount of dividends eligible for the reduced tax rates. Also, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the amount of any dividend paid in a foreign currency such as Euros, including any French withholding taxes withheld from such payment, will be equal to the U.S. dollar value of the Euros on the date the dividend is included in your taxable income, regardless of whether you convert the payment into U.S. dollars. If you hold ADSs, this date will be the date the payment is received by the Depositary. You generally will be required to recognize U.S. source ordinary income or loss when you sell or dispose of the Euros you are deemed to receive. You may also be required to recognize foreign currency gain or loss if you receive a refund of French tax withheld from a dividend in excess of the 15% rate provided for under the Treaty. In either case, this foreign currency gain or loss generally will be U.S. source ordinary income or loss. To the extent that any distributions paid exceed our current and accumulated earnings and profits as calculated for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the distribution will be treated as follows: · First, as a tax-free return of capital to the extent of your basis (determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes) in your ordinary shares or ADSs, which will reduce your adjusted tax basis of such ordinary shares or ADSs. This adjustment will increase the amount of gain, or decrease the amount of loss, which you will recognize if you later dispose of those ordinary shares or ADSs. · Second, the balance of the distribution in excess of your adjusted tax basis will be taxed as capital gain. French withholding tax imposed on the dividends you receive on your ordinary shares or ADSs at 15% under the Treaty is treated as payment of a foreign income tax generally eligible for credit against your U.S. federal income tax liability. Under the Code, in general, the limitation on foreign taxes eligible for credit is not calculated with respect to all worldwide income, but instead is calculated separately with respect to specific classes of income. For this purpose, the dividends you receive on your ordinary shares or ADSs generally will constitute “passive” income, or, for some holders, “general category” income. In general, U.S. foreign tax credits allowable with respect to each of these categories of income cannot exceed the U.S. federal income tax otherwise payable with respect to such category of income. The consequences of this “separate limitation” calculation to you will depend in general on the nature and sources of your income and deductions. 165 Table of Contents 10 LISTING AND SHAREHOLDINGS Capital Alternatively, a U.S. person may claim all foreign taxes paid as an itemized deduction in lieu of claiming a U.S. foreign tax credit, provided that such person does not choose to take a U.S. foreign tax credit to any extent. Generally, a deduction does not reduce U.S. tax on a dollar-for-dollar basis like a tax credit; however, generally the deduction for foreign taxes paid is not subject to the limitations described above. The U.S. foreign tax credit issues described above, including the possibility of taking a deduction for foreign taxes paid in the alternative, are very complex and depend on your individual circumstances. You are urged to consult your own tax advisor on the U.S. tax consequences of any French taxes paid in respect of your owning or disposing of our ordinary shares or ADSs. Taxation of capital gains If you are a resident of the United States for purposes of the Treaty, you will not be subject to French tax on any gain if you sell your ordinary shares or ADSs unless you have a permanent establishment or fixed base in France and such ordinary shares or ADSs were part of the business property of that permanent establishment or fixed base. Special rules apply to individuals who are residents of more than one country. In general, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, you will recognize capital gain or loss if you sell or otherwise dispose of your ordinary shares or ADSs based on the difference between the amount realized on the disposition and your adjusted tax basis in the ordinary shares or ADSs. Any gain or loss generally will be U.S. source gain or loss. If you are a non-corporate holder, and you satisfy certain minimum holding period requirements, any capital gain generally will be treated as long-term capital gain that generally is subject to U.S. federal income tax at preferential rates. Long-term capital gains realized upon a sale or other disposition of our ordinary shares or ADSs generally will be subject to a maximum U.S. federal income tax rate of 20%. Medicare contribution tax on unearned income A U.S. holder that is an individual is subject to a 3.8% tax on the lesser of (1) such U.S. holder’s “net investment income” for the relevant taxable year and (2) the excess of such U.S. holder’s modified adjusted gross income for the taxable year over a certain threshold (between $125,000 and $250,000, depending on the individual’s circumstances). A U.S. Holder that is an estate, or a trust that does not fall into a special class of trusts that is exempt from such tax, is subject to a 3.8% tax on the lesser of (1) such U.S. holder’s undistributed “net investment income” for the relevant taxable year and (2) the excess of such U.S. holder’s adjusted gross income for the taxable year over the amount at which the highest tax bracket begins for that taxable year (currently $7,500). A U.S. holder’s net investment income will generally include, among other items, the amount of gross dividend income and the amount of any net gains from such U.S. holder’s disposition of your shares or ADSs, unless such dividends or net gains are derived in the ordinary course of the conduct of a trade or business (other than a trade or business that consists of certain passive or trading activities). U.S. holders that are individuals, estates or trusts should consult their own tax advisors regarding the applicability of this tax to income and gains in respect of their investment in the shares or ADSs. Financial transaction tax on acquisitions of ordinary shares or ADSs Since August 1, 2012 a “financial transaction tax” applies to acquisitions giving rise to ownership transfer of shares or ADSs of French-listed companies with a global capitalization of at least 1 billion Euros. The tax rate is 0.2% of the share acquisition value. The tax is due by the financial services provider that undertakes the acquisition, irrespective of whether it is acting in a principal or agency capacity (or, if no financial services provider is involved in the acquisition, by the financial institution that holds the purchaser’s account). Taxable transactions are broadly construed but several exceptions may apply. Transfer tax on sale of ordinary shares or ADSs Certain transfers of shares or ADSs of publicly traded companies that are evidenced by a written agreement, and which are not subject to the financial transaction tax described above, are subject to a 0.1% transfer tax. The financial transaction tax and transfer tax may not be creditable in the United States for foreign tax credit purposes. U.S. holders should consult their tax advisors as to the tax consequences to them of the “financial transaction tax” and the “transfer tax.” French estate and gift taxes Under “The Convention Between the United States of America and the French Republic for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Estates, Inheritance and Gifts of November 24, 1978,” and the 2004 Protocol amending this 1978 Convention which became effective on December 21, 2006, if you transfer your ordinary shares or ADSs by gift, or if they are transferred by reason of your death, that transfer will be subject to French gift or inheritance tax only if one of the following applies: · you are domiciled in France at the time of making the gift, or at the time of your death, or · you used the ordinary shares or ADSs in conducting a business through a permanent establishment or fixed base in France, or you held the ordinary shares or ADSs for that use. The French gift or inheritance tax may be credited against the U.S. gift or inheritance tax. This tax credit is limited, however, to the amount of the U.S. gift or inheritance tax due on the shares. French wealth tax The French wealth tax generally does not apply to our ordinary shares or ADSs if held by a U.S. holder who is a resident of the United States for purposes of the Treaty. 166 Table of Contents LISTING AND SHAREHOLDINGS Capital U.S. information reporting and backup withholding In general, if you are a non-corporate U.S. holder of our ordinary shares or ADSs (or do not come within certain other exempt categories), information reporting requirements will apply to distributions paid to you and proceeds from the sale, exchange, redemption or disposal of your ordinary shares or ADSs. U.S. holders that are corporations generally are excluded from these information reporting and backup withholding tax rules. Additionally, if you are a non-corporate U.S. holder of our ordinary shares or ADSs (or do not come within certain other exempt categories) you may be subject to backup withholding at the current applicable rate with respect to such payments, unless you provide a correct taxpayer identification number (your social security number or employer identification number), and with respect to dividend payments, certify that you are not subject to backup withholding and otherwise comply with applicable requirements of the backup withholding rules. Generally, you will be required to provide such certification on Internal Revenue Service Form W-9 (“Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification”) or a substitute Form W-9. If you do not provide your correct taxpayer identification number, you may be subject to penalties imposed by the Internal Revenue Service, as well as backup withholding. Backup withholding is not an additional tax. In general, any amount withheld under the backup withholding rules should be allowable as a credit against your U.S. federal income tax liability (which might entitle you to a refund), provided that you timely furnish the required information to the Internal Revenue Service. U.S. reportable transactions A U.S. holder that participates in any “reportable transaction” (as defined in U.S. Treasury regulations), which includes certain losses related to nonfunctional currency transactions, must attach to its U.S. federal income tax return a disclosure statement on Internal Revenue Service Form 8886 (“Reportable Transaction Disclosure Statement”). U.S. holders are urged to consult their own tax advisors as to the possible obligation to file Internal Revenue Service Form 8886 with respect to the sale, exchange or other disposition of any non-U.S. currency (including euros) received as a dividend on, or as proceeds from the sale of, our ordinary shares or ADSs. Disclosure of information with respect to foreign financial assets Certain U.S. holders are required to report information with respect to their investment in our ordinary shares or ADSs not held through a custodial account with a U.S. financial institution to the Internal Revenue Service. In general, U.S. taxpayers holding specified “foreign financial assets” (which generally would include our ordinary shares or ADSs) with an aggregate value exceeding $50,000 will report information about those assets on Internal Revenue Service Form 8938 (“Statement of Specified Foreign Financial Assets”), which must be attached to the taxpayer’s annual income tax return. Higher asset thresholds apply to U.S. taxpayers who file a joint tax return or who reside abroad. Investors who fail to report required information could become subject to substantial penalties. You should consult your own tax advisor concerning the effect, if any, of holding your ordinary shares or ADSs on your obligation to file Form 8938. U.S. State and local taxes In addition to U.S. federal income tax, you may be subject to U.S. state and local taxes with respect to your ordinary shares or ADSs. You should consult your own tax advisor concerning the U.S. state and local tax consequences of holding your ordinary shares or ADSs. 167 Table of Contents 10 LISTING AND SHAREHOLDINGS Capital 10.2.7 Changes in our capital over the last five years Type of transaction Number of shares Amount of capital (in Euros) Share premium (in Euros) Capital at 12/31/2009 2,318,060,818 4,636,121,636 15,411,817,355.47 Convertible securities issued by Lucent Technologies Inc. 4,768 9,536 45,383.44 Stock options exercised 219,587 439,174 - (1) Issuance of Alcatel Lucent shares in accordance with the Alcatel Lucent performance shares plan 100,375 200,750 (200,750.00) (2) Capital at 12/31/2010 2,318,385,548 4,636,771,096 15,411,661,988.91 Convertible securities issued by Lucent Technologies Inc. 20,632 41,264 165,881.28 Redemption into Alcatel Lucent shares of bonds issued by Coralec in the context of the acquisition of Spatial Wireless 100,000 200,000 991,200.00 Stock options exercised 6,109,985 12,219,970 2,601,551.30 Issuance of Alcatel Lucent shares in accordance with the Alcatel Lucent performance shares plan 767,163 1,534,326 (1,534,326.00) (2) Capital at 12/31/2011 2,325,383,328 4,650,766,656 15,413,886,295.49 Issuance of Alcatel Lucent shares in accordance with the Alcatel Lucent performance shares plan 1,180,498 2,360,996 (2,360,996.00) (2) Capital at 12/31/2012 2,326,563,826 4,653,127,652 15,411,525,299,49 Issuance of Alcatel Lucent shares in accordance with the Alcatel Lucent performance shares plan 2,870,871 5,734,987.20 (5,734,987.20) (2) Stock options exercised 7,890,275 394,513.75 15,684,927.04 Convertible securities issued by Lucent Technologies Inc. 2,475 123.75 24,725.25 OCEANE 2015 conversion 15,658,262 782,913.10 46,691,918.25 Capital reduction by reducing of nominal value from EUR 2 à EUR 0.05 - (4,542,390,904.35) 4,542,390,904.35 (3) Issuance of Alcatel Lucent shares resulting from the capital increase with preferential subscription rights 455,568,488 22,778,424.40 903,431,902.60 Capital at 12/31/2013 2,808,554,197 140,427,709.85 20,914,014,689.78 Issuance of Alcatel Lucent shares in accordance with the Alcatel Lucent performance shares plan 4,435,355 221,767.75 (221,767.75) (2) Stock options exercised 7,438,828 371,941.40 14,284,118.22 Convertible securities issued by Lucent Technologies Inc. 2,830 141.50 28,271.70 OCEANE 2018 conversion 1,060 53.00 1,747.00 Capital at 12/31/2014 2,820,432,270 141,021,613.50 20,928,107,058.95 (1) These shares were purchased at nominal share value, without share premium. (2) Debit corresponding to the issuance of Alcatel Lucent shares. (3) The amount of the capital decrease was allocated to the share premium account. 168 Table of Contents LISTING AND SHAREHOLDINGS Shareholding 10.3 Shareholding 10.3.1 Administration of our Securities Custodian The shares are in registered or bearer form, at the shareholder’s choice, and are fully negotiable, except when otherwise provided by legal or regulatory provisions. Our shares are traded on the European regulated market of Euronext Paris, which represents the principal trading market for our ordinary shares. Our ordinary shares have been traded on Euronext Paris since June 3, 1987. Since 2010, we have entrusted BNP Paribas Securities Services with the provision of services relating to our securities and, notably, with the administration of our registered shares. Securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange Since May 1992, our shares have been listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in the form of American Depository Shares (ADSs). The shares underlying the ADSs (see Section 10.2.6 “American Depositary Shares (ADS)”) are deposited with a custodian. The ADSs may be negotiated on the U.S. stock markets in the same way as shares issued by U.S. listed corporations.JP Morgan Chase Bank N. A. is the depositary of the ADSs. 10.3.2 Shareholders’ agreements - concerted action At March 13, 2015, to our knowledge, there are no shareholders’ agreements or agreements concerning our shares which, if implemented at a later date, would have an impact on the control of our Company. 169 Table of Contents 10 LISTING AND SHAREHOLDINGS Shareholding 10.3.3 Share ownership threshold During 2014 and through March 13, 2015, a certain number of shareholders and registered intermediaries acting primarily on behalf of their customers, informed us of declarations concerning the reaching of the following legal thresholds and thresholds set forth in our bylaws (see Section 10.1.2 “Specific provisions of the bylaws and of law”): Declaring company Date on which the threshold was reached Trend % capital % Voting rightsexercisable atShareholders’Meeting The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 01/22/2014 10.00 9.84 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 02/14/2014 9.99 9.84 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 04/09/2014 10.09 9.93 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 04/17/2014 10.31 10.14 DNCA Finance 06/02/2014 2.07 NC DNCA Finance 06/05/2014 2.14 NC BlackRock Inc. 07/31/2014 4.85 4.77 Amundi 11/06/2014 2.21 2.17 Amundi 11/21/2014 3.00 NC Amundi 11/24/2014 2.93 NC Amundi 12/10/2014 3.05 3 Amundi 12/11/2014 NC 2.98 Amundi 12/15/2014 NC 3.04 Amundi 12/22/2014 2.99 2.94 Amundi 12/23/2014 3.00 NC DNCA Finance 01/16/2015 3.01 NC Amundi 01/22/2015 2.94 NC DNCA Finance 01/28/2015 2.96 NC Amundi 02/02/2015 3.04 NC Amundi 02/03/2015 NC 3.01 Amundi 02/10/2015 NC 2.99 Amundi 02/13/2015 2.99 NC Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations 02/24/2015 3.78 3.99 NC means « non communicated ». Article L.233-9 I 4 of the French Commercial Code provides that the reporting entity is deemed to hold, in addition to shares it effectively holds, the shares that it is entitled to acquire at its sole initiative, immediately or in the future, under the terms of an agreement or a financial instrument. Pledges of Alcatel Lucent shares At December 31, 2014, 5,659 Alcatel Lucent shares, held by a total of 26 shareholders in registered form, both directly and through an administered account, were the subject of a pledge. Information on the share capital of any entity member of the Group which is under or is subject to an option or a conditional or unconditional agreement On August 19, 2014, Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. repaid in full prior to its term the Senior Secured Credit Facility of an initial principal amount of US$1,750 million entered into in January, 2013. As a consequence, the pledges over certain securities held by Alcatel Lucent USA Inc., Alcatel-Lucent Holdings Inc. and certain other guarantors in most of their subsidiaries’ securities, granted to the lenders as security for the repayment of outstanding amounts under the Facility, were cancelled and released. Since then, there is no longer any entity member of the Group the capital of which is under or is subject to an option or a conditional or unconditional agreement. 170 Table of Contents LISTING AND SHAREHOLDINGS Shareholding 10.3.4 Shareholding and change in its structure Breakdown of capital and voting rights at December 31, 2014 Capital on the basis of outstanding shares at 12.31.2014 THEORETICAL voting rights on thebasis of outstanding shares at12.31.2014 (3) Voting rights EXERCISABLE ATSHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING on thebasis of outstanding shares at12.31.2014 (4) Shareholders Number of shares % of capital Double votingrights Total number ofvotes % of votes Total number ofvotes % of votes The Capital Group Companies, Inc. (1) 290,280,811 10.29% - 290,280,811 10.11% 290,280,811 10.26% BlackRock Inc. (1) 136,616,484 4.84% - 136,616,484 4.76% 136,616,484 4.83% Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations (1) (2) (7) 100,901,700 3.58% 8,243,622 109,145,322 3.80% 109,145,322 3.86% Amundi (1) 84,642,286 3.00% 84,642,286 2.95% 84,642,286 2.99% DNCA Finance (7) 83,884,900 2.97% 83,884,900 2.92% 83,884,900 2.96% FCP 2AL (1) 34,418,607 1.22% 33,969,215 68,387,822 2.38% 68,387,822 2.42% Other institutional investors in France (5) (7) 107,521,500 3.81% - 107,521,500 3.75% 107,521,500 3.80% Treasury stock held by Alcatel Lucent (6) 13,010,214 0.46% - 13,010,214 0.45% - - Treasury stock held by subsidiaries (6) 27,110,113 0.96% - 27,110,113 0.94% - - Public 1,942,045,655 68.86% 7,947,675 1,949,993,330 67.93% 1,949,993,330 68.89% TOTAL 2,820,432,270 100.00% 50,160,512 2,870,592,782 100.00% 2,830,472,455 100.00% (1) Source: Shareholders’ declaration. (2) Including the shares held by BPI Participations France. (3) The theoretical voting rights include the shares held by the Company and its subsidiaries which do not have voting rights. (4) The voting rights exercisable at Shareholders’ Meeting do not include shares which have no voting rights. (5) Other institutional investors in France holding, individually, more than 0.50% of the share capital. (6) These shares do not have voting rights pursuant to French applicable law, while held as treasury stock. (7) Source: Alcatel Lucent (2014: TPI as of June 30, 2014 and IPREO shareholders report as of December 31, 2014). At December 31, 2014, 23,615,815 shares and 3,166,340 ADSs were held by Florelec and 327,958 shares by Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc., as treasury stock. At December 31, 2014, to our knowledge, The Capital Group Companies, Inc. had declared several times during fiscal year 2014, to have exceeded thresholds resulting in holding indirectly more than 5% of the capital and of the voting rights of our Company (see Section 10.3.3 “Share ownership threshold”). Voting rights The total number of voting rights, as published by Alcatel Lucent pursuant to Article L. 233-8-II of the French Commercial Code, and Article 223-16 of the General Regulations of the AMF, was 2,870,592,782 at December 31, 2014 (including the treasury stock held by the parent company and by its subsidiaries). To allow shareholders to determine whether they have exceeded an ownership threshold, we post the total number of voting rights monthly on our website. For the discussion of ownership thresholds, see Section 10.1.2 “Specific provisions of the by-laws and of law.” Information on voting rights, which is considered regulated information under the General Regulation of the AMF, may be viewed at the following address: www.alcatel-lucent.com, heading “Investors”, then “Regulated Information”. At December 31, 2014, shareholders benefiting from double voting rights had a total of 50,160,512 votes, representing 1.78% of the voting rights. 171 Table of Contents 10 LISTING AND SHAREHOLDINGS Shareholding Breakdown of capital and voting rights over the past 3 years Shareholders Number of shares % of capital Theoretical votingrights (3) % oftheoreticalvoting rights Voting rightsexercisable atShareholders’Meeting (4) % of votingrightsexercisable atShareholders’Meeting at December 31, 2014 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. (1) 290,280,811 10.29 290,280,811 10.11 290,280,811 10.26 BlackRock Inc. (1) 136,616,484 4.84 136,616,484 4.76 136,616,484 4.83 Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations (1) (2) (7) 100,901,700 3.58 109,145,322 3.80 109,145,322 3.86 Amundi (1) 84,642,286 3.00 84,642,286 2.95 84,642,286 2.99 DNCA Finance (1) (7) 83,884,900 2.97 83,884,900 2.92 83,884,900 2.96 FCP 2AL (1) 34,418,607 1.22 68,387,822 2.38 68,387,822 2.42 Other institutional investors in France (5) (7) 107,521,500 3.81 107,521,500 3.75 107,521,500 3.80 Treasury stock held by Alcatel Lucent (6) 13,010,214 0.46 13,010,214 0.45 - - Treasury stock held by subsidiaries (6) 27,110,113 0.96 27,110,113 0.94 - - Public 1,942,045,655 68.86 1,949,993,330 67.93 1,949,993,330 68.89 TOTAL 2,820,432,270 100.00 2,870,592,782 100.00 2,830,472,455 100.00 at December 31, 2013 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. (1) 277,075,415 9.87 277,075,415 9.71 277,075,415 9.88 BlackRock Inc. (1) 145,789,330 5.19 145,789,330 5.11 145,789,330 5.20 Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations (1) (2) 91,830,871 3.27 100,074,493 3.51 100,074,493 3.57 Amundi - - - - - - DNCA Finance - - - - - - FCP 2AL (1) 35,608,766 1.27 69,340,712 2.43 69,340,712 2.47 Other institutional investors in France (5) (7) 125,259,100 4.46 125,259,100 4.39 125,259,100 4.47 Treasury stock held by Alcatel Lucent (6) 19,205,701 0.68 19,205,701 0.67 - - Treasury stock held by subsidiaries (6) 32,688,710 1.16 32,688,710 1.15 - - Public 2,081,096,304 74.10 2,085,454,870 73.03 2,085,454,870 74.41 TOTAL 2,808,554,197 100.00 2,854,888,331 100.00 2,802,993,920 100.00 at December 31, 2012 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. - - - - - - BlackRock Inc. - - - - - - Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations (1) (2) 83,857,900 3.60 84,128,600 3.56 84,128,600 3.65 Amundi - - - - - - DNCA Finance - - - - - - FCP 2AL (1) 35,730,414 1.54 68,309,457 2.89 68,309,457 2.96 Other institutional investors in France (5) (7) 41,146,200 1.77 41,146,200 1.74 41,146,200 1.78 Treasury stock held by Alcatel Lucent (6) 25,336,243 1.09 25,336,243 1.07 - - Treasury stock held by subsidiaries (6) 32,851,823 1.41 32,851,823 1.39 - - Public 2,107,641,246 90.59 2,113,171,753 89.35 2,113,171,753 91.61 TOTAL 2,326,563,826 100.00 2,364,944,076 100.00 2,306,756,010 100.00 (1) Source: Shareholders’ declaration. (2) Including the shares held by BPI Participations France. (3) The theoretical voting rights include the shares held by the Company and its subsidiaries which do not have voting rights. (4) The voting rights exercisable at shareholders’ meeting do not include shares which have no voting rights. (5) Other institutional investors in France holding, individually, more than 0.50% of the share capital. (6) These shares do not have voting rights pursuant to French applicable law, while held as treasury stock. (7) Source: Alcatel Lucent (2014: TPI as of June 30, 2014 and IPREO shareholders report as of December 31, 2014; 2013: TPI as of June 30, 2013 and IPREO shareholders report as of December 31, 2013; 2012: TPI as of June 30, 2012 and IPREO shareholders report as of December 31, 2012). 172 Table of Contents LISTING AND SHAREHOLDINGS Shareholding Employees’ and management’s shareholding FCP 2AL. The employee shareholdings are managed collectively through the FCP 2AL Mutual Fund (in French: Fonds Commun de Placement Actionnariat Alcatel-Lucent). The FCP 2AL is the Group’s special Mutual Fund (in French Fonds Commun de Placement d’Entreprise), put in place for the implementation of the incentive agreements and the corporate savings plans, entered into between the companies of the Alcatel Lucent group and their employees. The FCP 2AL is categorized as a mutual fund invested in listed securities of the company (in French FCPE investi en titres cotés de l’entreprise). The FCP 2AL’s management objective is to enable the unit holders to participate in the Group’s development by investing a minimum of 95% of his or her assets in the Mutual Fund in Alcatel Lucent shares, the remainder being invested in Euro monetary UCITS (in French OPCVM Monétaire Euro) and/or liquidities. The Mutual Fund’s performance mirrors the performance of the Alcatel Lucent’s share both upwards and downwards. At December 31, 2014, FCP 2AL unit holders held a total of 34,418,607 shares, representing 1.22% of the capital, of which 33,969,215 shares gave the shareholders double voting rights. The FCP 2AL’s percentage shareholding decreased from 1.48% at December 31, 2011 to 1.22% at December 31, 2014. The voting rights at Alcatel Lucent Shareholders’ Meetings are exercised by the FCP 2AL Supervisory Board. Board of Directors and Management Committee At March 13, 2015, the members of the Board of Directors and of the Management Committee together held 6,775,198 Alcatel Lucent shares (including ADSs) and 48 interests in FCP 2AL, that is, 0.24% of Alcatel Lucent capital and voting rights (see Section 7.1.2 “Principles of organization of our Company’s management”, subsection 7.1.2.2 “Attendance fees”). 03/13/2015 Alcatel Lucent ordinaryshares ADS FCP 2AL(3) Total % of capital Board of Directors (1)(2) 3,782,792 2,600,003 0 6,382,795 0.23% Management Committee 385,382 7,021 48 392,451 0.01% Total 4,168,174 2,607,024 48 6,775,246 0.24% (1) Not including the two Board Observers. (2) Securities held directly or indirectly by the Directors. (3) Interests in the FCP 2AL Mutual Fund. Directors’ transactions During fiscal year 2014 and early 2015, the Directors effected transactions in Alcatel Lucent shares, in particular pursuant to their investment obligation related to the grant of their additional Directors’ fees (see Section 7.1.2 “Principles of organization of our Company’s management”, Subsection 7.1.2.2 “Attendance fees”). The purchases of shares by the Directors are made outside the blackout periods, as defined by the rules of conduct concerning the prevention of insider trading. These rules apply to our Directors and Management Committee members, and to any person with similar functions, as well as to any person who has access on a regular or occasional basis to insider information. Since 2013, the duration of the blackout periods is of 30 days. The blackout periods start 30 calendar days before the release date of the annual, bi-annual and quarterly accounts and end at the beginning of the second working day following the release date. However, in exceptional circumstances, trading in Alcatel Lucent shares may occur during the blackout periods, subject to the prior written agreement of the General Counsel of the Company. Summary of transactions carried out by some of the Directors during fiscal year 2014 and up to March 13, 2015, reported in application of Article 223-26 of the General Regulation of the AMF: Directors Type of transaction Date oftransaction Number of shares Unit price Total amount Francesco Caio Acquisition 09/17/2014 2,100 €2.577 €5,455.46 Kim Crawford Goodman Acquisition 06/09/2014 (1) 2,500 $1.335 $3,337.50 (1) Date of the regularization of the acquisition dated May 3, 2013 following the threshold below which the exemption of declaration applies having been exceeded. 173 Table of Contents 10 LISTING AND SHAREHOLDINGS Stock exchange information 10.4 Stock exchange information 10.4.1 Listing Our shares are traded on the European regulated market of Euronext Paris, which represents the principal trading market for our ordinary shares. Our ordinary shares have been traded on Euronext Paris since June 3, 1987. Since May 1992, our shares have been listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in the form of American Depository Shares (ADSs). JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is the depositary of the ADSs. ISIN Code Since June 30, 2003, all securities traded on the Euronext Paris stock market are identified by an International Securities Identification Number (ISIN). Alcatel Lucent: FR0000130007. Mnemo: ALU. Index Our shares are included in the CAC 40 index. 10.4.2 Changes in price per share The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low prices, at the close of the trading day, on Euronext Paris SA for our ordinary shares: (in Euros) Price per share High Low 2010 2.67 1.87 2011 4.43 1.11 2012 1.95 0.72 2013 3.36 0.96 First Quarter 1.26 0.97 Second Quarter 1.42 0.96 Third Quarter 2.55 1.29 Fourth Quarter 3.36 2.24 2014 3.40 1.88 First Quarter 3.40 2.70 Second Quarter 3.04 2.61 Third Quarter 2.85 2.38 Fourth Quarter 3.00 1.88 October 2.45 1.88 November 2.87 2.49 December 3.00 2.64 2015 January 3.16 2.78 February 3.54 3.05 March (as of March 17, 2015) 3.72 3.47 174 Table of Contents LISTING AND SHAREHOLDINGS Stock exchange information The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low prices, at the close of the trading day, on The New York Stock Exchange for our ADSs: (in U.S. $) Price per share High Low 2010 3.78 2.36 2011 6.54 1.39 2012 2.6 0.94 2013 4.57 1.28 First Quarter 1.75 1.3 Second Quarter 1.94 1.28 Third Quarter 3.65 1.76 Fourth Quarter 4.57 3.22 2014 4.61 2.36 First Quarter 4.61 3.69 Second Quarter 4.16 3.53 Third Quarter 3.84 3.03 Fourth Quarter 3.71 2.36 October 3.00 2.36 November 3.55 3.05 December 3.71 3.24 2015 January 3.59 3.24 February 3.92 3.44 March (as of March 17, 2015) 3.91 3.70 10.4.3 Shareholder structure Breakdown of the capital by shareholder category at December 31, 2014 Breakdown of the capital by location at December 31, 2014 Source: IPREO Number of shares at December 31, 2014: 2,820,432,270 175 Table of Contents 10 LISTING AND SHAREHOLDINGS Stock exchange information 10.4.4 Dividends and performance Trend of dividend per share over 5 years No dividends have been distributed in the five previous fiscal years. Dividends not claimed within five years are turned over to the French Treasury. The dividend policy is defined by our Board of Directors following an analysis, in particular, of the Group’s financial position and earnings and taking into account its capital requirements and performance, current and future returns, and market practices in relation to distribution of dividends, especially in the sector of activity within which we operate. In the light of our financial results, investment needs and requirements in terms of debt management, we may decide to adjust a dividend distribution, or to not distribute a dividend. At its meeting of February 5, 2015 our Board of Directors has recommended to pay no dividend for fiscal year 2014. 10.5 Shareholders’ Meetings 10.5.1 History of main decisions taken at Shareholders’ Meetings during the last 3 years 2014 Shareholders’ Meeting At the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 28, 2014, the shareholders mainly: · appointed Mrs. Véronique Morali and Mr. Francesco Caio as Directors for a period of three years expiring at the end of the Shareholders’ Meeting which will consider the approval of the financial statements for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2016; · renewed the term of office as Directors of Mrs. Kim Crawford Goodman and Mr. Jean-Cyril Spinetta for a period of three years expiring at the end of the Shareholders’ Meeting which will consider the approval of the financial statements for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2016; · submitted to the shareholders the elements of compensation due or granted to Mr. Philippe Camus as Chairman of the Board and to Mr. Michel Combes as CEO during fiscal year 2013 to obtain their advisory opinion thereon (Say on pay); · renewed for a period of 26 months, that is, until July 2016, all of the financial authorizations granted to our Board of Directors regarding the Company’s financial management, in particular by authorizing our Board to increase the capital, in accordance with various terms and conditions and for various reasons; · renewed for a period of 38 months, that is, until July 2017, the specific authorizations concerning the grant of performance shares and stock options for the benefit of employees and executive directors. 2013 Shareholders’ Meetings At the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2013, the shareholders: · decided to appoint Mr. Michel Combes as Director for a period of three years expiring at the end of the Shareholders’ Meeting which will consider the approval of the financial statements for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2015; · renewed the term of office as Directors of Mr. Philippe Camus, Mrs. Carla Cico and Mr. Jean C. Monty, for a period of three years expiring at the end of the Shareholders’ Meeting which will consider the financial statements for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2015. At the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 29, 2013, the shareholders decided to authorize the Board of Directors to reduce the Company’s capital by decreasing the nominal value of our shares. The nominal value of the shares was therefore reduced from EUR 2 to EUR 0.05. 2012 Shareholders’ Meeting At the Shareholders’ Meeting of June 8, 2012, the shareholders: · renewed as Directors, Messrs. Stuart E. Eizenstat, Louis R. Hughes and Olivier Piou for a period of three years, and Lady Sylvia Jay and Mr. Jean-Cyril Spinetta for a period of two years, in order to comply with the AFEP-MEDEF Code with respect to the staggering of the Directors’ terms of office; · appointed Mr. Bertrand Lapraye as Board Observer for a period of 3 years; · renewed the terms of the Statutory Auditors and Alternate Auditors, for a period of six fiscal years; · renewed for a period of 26 months, that is, until November, 2014, all of the financial authorizations granted to our Board of Directors regarding the Company’s financial management, in particular by authorizing our Board to increase the capital, in accordance with various terms and conditions and for various reasons. 176 Table of Contents LISTING AND SHAREHOLDINGS Shareholders’ Meetings 10.5.2 Main resolutions to be presented at the 2015 Shareholders’ Meeting On February 5, 2015, the Board of Directors approved the agenda for the next Shareholders’ Meeting, which will take place on Tuesday, May 26, 2015. The notice of the meeting was published in the Bulletin des Annonces Légales Obligatoires on February 20, 2015. The text of the resolutions, as well as the Board’s report on the resolutions, is available on the Company’s website, www.alcatel-lucent.com, under the section Investors & Shareholders, then Annual General Meetings. On March 13, 2015, the Board of Directors added a resolution to the agenda for the next Shareholders’ Meeting, which will take place on Tuesday, May 26, 2015 in order to anticipate, to the extent that they would enter into force, the new conditions applicable to the performance shares as contemplated by the draft law for growth, activity and equal economic opportunities (the “Loi Macron”). All of the documentation relating to the 2015 Shareholders’ Meeting which must be made available to the shareholders will also be put online on the Company’s website www.alcatel-lucent.com. Members of the Board of Directors In addition to approving our Company’s financial statements and our consolidated financial statements, the shareholders will in particular be asked, during the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 26, 2015, to decide on the renewal of the terms of office of Messrs. Stuart E. Eizenstat, Louis R. Hughes and Olivier Piou, for a period of three years, all of them being qualified as independent Directors as defined in the AFEP-MEDEF Code. (See Section 7.1.2.1 “Principles of corporate governance”). At the Shareholders’ Meeting, the shareholders will also be asked to approve: · the appointment of a new Director, Mrs. Sylvia Summers, for a period of three years expiring at the end of the Shareholders’ Meeting which will consider the financial statements for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2017; · the appointment of a Board Observer, Mr. Laurent du Mouza, for a period of three years expiring at the end of the Shareholders’ Meeting which will consider the financial statements for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2017. Say on Pay As was the case last year, the shareholders will be asked at the next Shareholders’ Meeting, pursuant to the recommendation of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, to give an advisory opinion on the elements of the compensation due or granted during fiscal year 2014, to the Executive Directors (see Section 8.2.1 “Compensation policy for the Executive Directors and Officers”). The elements of the compensation of Mr. Philippe Camus, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Mr. Michel Combes, CEO, will therefore be subject to the advisory opinion of the shareholders. Authorizations related to the capital Some of the delegations of authority given to the Board of Directors by the shareholders at its meeting of May 28, 2014, have been fully used. The shareholders will be asked to renew these authorizations, in order to provide the Board of Directors with a broad financial flexibility to select the appropriate type of issuance and adapt, when necessary, the type of financial instruments to issue taking into account the market situation and opportunities, either in France or abroad, in order to react to a changing market in a timely manner. Specific authorizations for the benefit of the employees and Executive Directors The renewal before its term of the authorization related to the grant of performance shares approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 28, 2014 falls under the scope of the provisions of the “Loi Macron.” The measures included in the “Loi Macron” would allow the Company to grant performance shares at the end of a minimum three-year vesting period, which could be followed by a mandatory holding period, instead of the minimum 4-year period currently applicable composed of the vesting and holding periods. In addition, it will be proposed that the number of performance shares granted could not exceed 1.5% of the share capital (instead of the current 2%) over a period of 26 months (instead of the current 38 months). Amendments to the bylaws The shareholders will be proposed at the next Shareholders’ Meeting to render Article 21 of the Company’s bylaws (“Shareholders’ Meetings”) in compliance with the provisions of Article R. 225-85 of the French Commercial Code as amended by Decree No. 2014-1466 of December 8, 2014 setting the record date at the second working day preceding the shareholders’ meeting at midnight, Paris time (Paragraphs 3 and 6) and updating the provisions governing the process of voting forms based on this record date, that is, with a deadline for receipt also reduced to two working days (Paragraph 4). 177 Table of Contents 10 LISTING AND SHAREHOLDINGS Shareholders’ Meetings Summary of authorizations to be proposed at the 2015 Shareholders’ Meeting The table below shows the financial authorizations and specific authorizations for the benefit of the Company’s employees and Executive Directors, the renewal of which will be proposed at the Shareholders’ Meeting on May 26, 2015 and the use of the previous authorizations during their validity period: PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS 2015 PREVIOUS RESOLUTIONS (2014 Shareholders’ Meeting) Nature Caracteristics (ceiling, discount) % capital % capital Utilization Remaining % Capital AUTHORIZATIONS - VALIDITY: 18 MONTHS Share repurchase (resolution 11) - 10% 10% None 10% Share cancellation (resolution 12) - 10% 10% None 10% ISSUANCE OF SECURITIES - VALIDITY: 26 MONTHS Maximum common amount applicable to all dilutive and non-dilutive issuances: EUR 56.5 million (40% of the capital) Capital increase WITH PSR (resolution 13 ) Global ceiling: EUR 56.5 million (1,130 million shares); Maximum nominal amount of debt securities : EUR 5 billion 40% 33% 10%* 23%*** Capital increase WITHOUT PSR (resolution 14 to 17 and 19) Public offer WITH priority subscription period(resolution 14 ) Ceiling: EUR 28.25 million (565 million shares); Maximum nominal amount of debt securities : EUR 5 billion; Maximum discount of 5%; Priority subscription period of at least 5 days 20%* 20%** None 10%*** Maximum amount applicable to dilutive issuances and without priority subscription period: EUR 14.1 million (10% of the capital) Public offer WITHOUT priority subscription period(resolution 14) Ceiling: EUR 14.1 million (282 million shares); Maximum nominal amount of debt securities: EUR 5 billion; Maximum discount of 5% 10% 10% None 0%*** Private placement (Art L. 411-2 II of the French Monetary and Financial Code)(resolution 15) Maximum discount of 5% 10% 10% 10% 0%*** Greenshoe(resolution 16) 15% of the initial issue 15% of the initial issue 15% of the initial issue 15% of the initial issue N/A Contributions in kind(resolution 17) - 10% 10% None 0%*** Determination of price under public offer and private placement(resolution 19) Flexibility of the reference period; Maximum discount of 5% 10% 10% None N/A Capital increase by capitalization of reserves, profits, premiums (resolution 18) EUR 5 billion EUR 5 billion - None - ISSUANCE RESERVED TO EMPLOYEES AND EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS - VALIDITY: 26 MONTHS Capital increase reserved to employees (resolution 20) Maximum discount of 5% 2% 2% None 2% Performance shares (resolution 21) Executive Directors : limit of 6% of the grants (that is, less than 0.09% of share capital) 1,5% 2% 0,37% 1,63% NB : Share capital at December 31, 2014: EUR 141 million, that is, 2,820.4 million shares with a nominal value of EUR 0.05. PSR : Preferential Subscription Right. * The 10% used correspond to the June, 2014 issuance through a private placement. ** To be counted towards the ceiling of 33% mentioned in resolution 13 approved at the 2014 Shareholders’ Meeting, related to the capital increase WITH PSR. *** Due to the issuance made in June 2014 through a private placement representing 10 % of the capital (this percentage being the maximum amount of the authorizations for the issuances WITHOUT PSR and WITHOUT priority subscription period). The maximum ceiling of the authorizations for the issuances of securities WITHOUT preferential subscription right and WITHOUT priority subscription period (resolution 14, 15, 16 and 17) amounts to 10% of the capital and count towards the global ceiling of 40% of the capital mentioned in resolution 13 related to the issuance of securities WITH preferential subscription right. 178 Table of Contents Controls and procedures, Statutory Auditors’ fees and other matters 11 11.1 Controls and procedures 180 11.2 Documents on display 183 11.3 Audit Committee financial expert 184 11.4 Code of ethics 184 11.5 Financial statements 184 11.6 Exhibits 185 11.7 Cross-reference table between Form 20-F and this document 186 179 Table of Contents 11 CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES, STATUTORY AUDITORS’ FEES AND OTHER MATTERS Controls and procedures 11.1 Controls and procedures Disclosure controls and procedures We performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as required by Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(b) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on this evaluation, our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective at the reasonable assurance level described in the following sentence. There can be no assurance that our disclosure controls and procedures will detect or uncover all failures of persons within Alcatel Lucent to disclose material information otherwise required to be set forth in our reports, although our management has concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures provide reasonable assurance of achieving these objectives. Management’s annual report on internal control over financial reporting We are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for Alcatel Lucent. Internal control over financial reporting is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, our principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by our Board of Directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the issuer; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the issuer are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the issuer; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the issuer’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements and even when determined to be effective can only provide reasonable assurance with respect to financial statements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. We assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014. In making this assessment, we used the criteria established in Internal Control -Integrated Framework 2013 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our assessment under these criteria, we concluded that, as of December 31, 2014, our internal control over financial reporting is effective. Deloitte & Associés and Ernst & Young et Autres, the independent registered public accounting firms that audited the consolidated financial statements in this annual report, have issued a report on Alcatel Lucent’s internal control over financial reporting, as stated in their report set forth in Section 11.1.1 “Report of independent registered public accounting firms” of this annual report. 180 Table of Contents CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES, STATUTORY AUDITORS’ FEES AND OTHER MATTERS Controls and procedures 11.1.1 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Alcatel Lucent (and subsidiaries) We have audited Alcatel Lucent and its subsidiaries’ (“the Group”) internal control over financial reporting as at December 31, 2014, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Group’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying management’s annual report on internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Group’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. In our opinion, the Group maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as at December 31, 2014, based on the criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated statements of financial position of the Group as of December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2014 and our report dated March 19, 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. s/ DELOITTE & ASSOCIES s/ ERNST & YOUNG et Autres Represented by Jean-François Ginies Neuilly-sur-Seine and Paris-La Défense, March 19, 2015 181 Table of Contents 11 CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES, STATUTORY AUDITORS’ FEES AND OTHER MATTERS Controls and procedures 11.1.2 Statutory Auditors Our Statutory Auditors who report on our parent company and consolidated accounts and our Alternate Auditors are: Appointment (1) Most recentrenewals (1) Expirationof mandate Statutory Auditors Deloitte & Associés, represented by Mr. Jean-Pierre Agazzi 185, avenue Charles de Gaulle 92524 Neuilly-sur-Seine Cedex 06/18/1998 06/08/2012 12/31/2017 Ernst & Young et Autres, represented by Mr. Jean-François Ginies Tour First, 1-2, place des Saisons 92400 Courbevoie-Paris La Défense 1 06/23/1994 06/08/2012 12/31/2017 Alternate Auditors BEAS 195, avenue Charles de Gaulle 92200 Neuilly sur Seine 09/07/2006 06/08/2012 12/31/2017 Auditex 1-2, place des Saisons 92400 Courbevoie-Paris La Défense 1 09/07/2006 06/08/2012 12/31/2017 (1) Date of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. Change in Statutory Auditors Not applicable. 11.1.3 Statutory Auditors’ fees Fees of our Statutory Auditors and their international networks in 2013 and in 2014: Deloitte & Associés Ernst & Young (Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu network) (EY network) (in thousands of euros) 2013 2014 2013 2014 1. Audit Audit fees (statutory audit, audit of consolidated financial statements and certification) 7,270 63% 7,372 81% 7,121 72% 6,795 78% Issuer 2,365 20% 2,438 27% 2,445 25% 2,398 28% Consolidated entities 4,905 42% 4,934 54% 4,676 48% 4,397 50% Audit-related fees 3,874 33% 1,638 18% 2,447 25% 1,723 20% Issuer 578 5% 140 2% 2,123 22% 1,289 15% Consolidated entities 3,296 28% 1,498 16% 324 3% 434 5% SUB-TOTAL 11,144 96% 9,010 99% 9,568 97% 8,518 98% 2. Other services (not audit-related) Tax services 101 1% 123 1% 64 1% 122 1% Other services 325 3% 25 0% 212 2% 98 1% SUB-TOTAL 426 4% 148 1% 276 3% 220 2% TOTAL 11,570 100% 9,158 100% 9,844 100% 8,738 100% The table above provides the fees of Alcatel Lucent’s independent auditors and their international networks for the consolidated entities of the Group relating to the periods 2013 and 2014. In accordance with U.S. regulatory requirements around external auditors’ independence, the Audit and Finance Committee has a policy regarding pre-approval of certain audit services and permissible non-audit services provided by our independent auditors. Our independent auditors may only be engaged to 182 Table of Contents CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES, STATUTORY AUDITORS’ FEES AND OTHER MATTERS Controls and procedures provide such services after having received confirmation that these services are included in the list of pre-approved services by the Audit and Finance Committee. Non-prohibited services which are however not included in the pre-approved services must be specifically approved by the Audit and Finance Committee. Note 1 Audit fees (statutory audit, audit of consolidated financial statements and certification) The services included are those imposed by applicable law or regulations. More specifically, the services envisaged by the CNCC guide on professional standards in its Chapters 2, 5 and 6 are included. Audit fees consist of fees billed for the annual audit of the Group’s consolidated financial statements and the statutory accounts of all consolidated entities (both French and foreign). They also include the review of documents filed with the SEC and which encompasses procedures on internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Note 2 Audit-related fees Audit related fees consist of fees billed by the independent auditors or by their networks for services that are reasonably related to the performance of the audit of the Company’s (or its affiliates’) financial statements. Such services fall within Articles 10, 23 and 24, respectively, of the Code of Ethics of IFAC (International Federation of Accountants). Such procedures or services are generally non-recurrent and may only reasonably be provided by the independent auditors. Note 3 Other services (non-audit related) Non-audit related services are services provided by the independent auditors. Those services are carried out in accordance with Article 24 of the Code of Ethics of IFAC. Non-audit services include tax services and other services mostly to be categorized as consultancy. Note 4 Tax services Tax services include tax compliance, tax advice and tax planning. They can include general expatriate services. Such services are generally non-recurrent. Note 5 Other services Other services are all services provided by our independent auditors and which do not fall under one of the above specific categories. Such services are mostly specific and non-recurrent. 11.2 Documents on display We file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission that contain financial information about us and our results of operations. You may read or copy any document that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission at the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information about the Public Reference Room by calling the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330. All of our Securities and Exchange Commission filings made after February 4, 2002 are available to the public at the SEC web site at www.sec.gov. Our web site at www.alcatel-lucent.com includes information about our business and also includes some of our Securities and Exchange Commission filings prior to February 4, 2002. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this document. The articles of association of Alcatel Lucent as well as reports from the Board of Directors to the Shareholder’s Meeting, auditors reports, historical financial statements of the Company for the last three fiscal years and any other document sent to or required by law to be made available to shareholders, may be reviewed at the Company’s registered head office at 148-152 Route de la Reine - 92100 Boulogne Billancourt - France. Any shareholder can also consult/download from our website under the heading “Regulated information”, the 2014 reference document filed with the AMF, which includes: · the annual financial report (which is Chapter 6 “Operating and financial review and prospects” of this document); · the Statutory Auditors’ reports on the parent company and consolidated accounts; · the special report of the Statutory Auditors concerning regulated agreements and commitments; · the report from the Chairman of the Board of Directors on the corporate governance and on internal control and risk management required under French law; · the Statutory Auditors’ report on the report prepared by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, and; · the information relating to the Statutory Auditors’ fees (which is also set forth in Section 11.1.3 “Statutory Auditors’ fees” of this document). 183 Table of Contents 11 CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES, STATUTORY AUDITORS’ FEES AND OTHER MATTERS Audit Committee financial expert 11.3 Audit Committee financial expert Our Board of Directors has determined that Mr. Jean C. Monty is an “audit committee financial expert” and that he is independent under the applicable rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and The New York Stock Exchange. 11.4 Code of ethics On February 4, 2004, our Board of Directors adopted a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers that applies to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Corporate Controller. On May 24, 2012, we made some non-substantive changes to the Code of Ethics to reflect changes made to some of the terms used in relevant legislation or documents referred to in this Code of Ethics since the initial adoption by our Board of Directors in 2004 (see Section 7.3, “Alcatel Lucent Code of Conduct”). A copy of our Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers has been posted on our website, www.alcatel-lucent.com. This Code of Ethics is in addition to our Alcatel Lucent Code of Conduct, which also applies to our senior financial officers. 11.5 Financial statements The following consolidated financial statements of Alcatel Lucent, together with the report of Deloitte & Associés and Ernst & Young et Autres for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 are filed as part of this annual report. Page Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms 192 Consolidated Income Statements 193 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 194 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 195 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 196 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 197 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 198 All schedules have been omitted since they are not required under the applicable instructions or the substance of the required information is shown in the financial statements. 184 Table of Contents CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES, STATUTORY AUDITORS’ FEES AND OTHER MATTERS Exhibits 11.6 Exhibits 1.1 Statuts (Articles of Association and Bylaws) of Alcatel-Lucent (English translation), dated December 31, 2014. 2.1 Form of Second Amended and Restated Deposit Agreement, among Alcatel-Lucent, JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A., as Depositary, and the holders from time to time of the ADSs issued thereunder, including the form of ADR (incorporated by reference to Exhibit (a) to Alcatel-Lucent’s Registration Statement on Form F-6 filed January 4, 2013). (File No. 333-185880). 4.1 Credit and Guaranty Agreement, dated January 30, 2013, by and among Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc., as borrower, Alcatel-Lucent Holdings Inc., as holdings and a guarantor, Alcatel Lucent as parent and a guarantor, and Credit Suisse AG; Goldman Sachs Bank USA; Citicorp North America, Inc.; and Deutche Bank Trust Company Americas (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to Alcatel-Lucent’s Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2012, filed March 12, 2013). (Pursuant to Rule 24b-2, confidential information has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to a Confidential Treatment Application filed with the Commission.) 4.2 First Amendment to Credit and Guaranty Agreement, dated as of April 11, 2013, by and between Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. and Credit Suisse AG, as administrative agent for the lenders, and acknowledged and agreed to by Alcatel-Lucent Holdings Inc. and Credit Suisse AG, as collateral agent for the secured parties (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to Alcatel-Lucent’s Form 6-K filed September 30, 2013). 4.3 Second Amendment to Credit and Guaranty Agreement, dated as of August 16, 2013, by and among Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc., Alcatel-Lucent Holdings Inc., Alcatel Lucent, the subsidiary guarantors party thereto, the lenders party thereto, Credit Suisse AG, as administrative agent for the lenders, with Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to Alcatel-Lucent’s Form 6-K filed September 30, 2013). (Pursuant to Rule 24b-2, confidential information has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to a Confidential Treatment Application filed with the Commission.) 4.4 Third Amendment to Credit and Guaranty Agreement, dated as of February 18, 2014, by and among Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc., Alcatel-Lucent Holdings Inc., Alcatel Lucent, the subsidiary guarantors party thereto, the existing lenders and the joining new lenders party thereto, and Credit Suisse AG, as administrative agent for the lenders and as collateral agent for the secured parties, with Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to Alcatel-Lucent’s Form 6-K filed March 10, 2014). 8. List of subsidiaries (see Note 33 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein). 12.1 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to §302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 12.2 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to §302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 13.1 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350. 13.2 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350. 15.1 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm - Deloitte & Associés. 15.2 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm - Ernst & Young et Autres. Alcatel-Lucent and its consolidated subsidiaries are party to several long-term debt instruments under which the total amount of securities authorized does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the company and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Pursuant to paragraph 2(b)(i) of Item 19 to Form 20-F, Alcatel-Lucent agrees to furnish a copy of such instruments to the SEC upon request. 185 Table of Contents 11 CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES, STATUTORY AUDITORS’ FEES AND OTHER MATTERS Cross-reference table between Form 20-F and this document 11.7 Cross-reference table between Form 20-F and this document FORM 20-F 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ON 20-F Item 1: Identity of Directors, Senior Management and Advisers N/A Item 2: Offer Statistics and Expected Timetable N/A Item 3: Key Information A. Selected financial data Chapter 1 Selected financial data B. Capitalization and indebtedness N/A C. Reasons for the offer and use of proceeds N/A D. Risk factors Chapter 3 Risk factors 