Item 1A. Risk FactorsForward-Looking StatementsForward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” as well as elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various important factors, many of which may be beyond the Company’s control. Accordingly, future performance and financial results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in any such forward-looking statements. Investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. You can identify these statements as those that may predict, forecast, indicate, or imply future results, performance, or advancements and by forward-looking words such as, but not limited to, “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,” “future,” “forecast,” “outlook,” “foresee,” “predict,” “potential,” “plan,” “project,” “goal,” “will,” “will be,” “continue,” “lead to,” “expand,” “grow,” “confidence,” “could,” “should,” “may,” “might,” or any variations of such words or other words or phrases with similar meanings. Forward-looking statements address or describe, among other things, expectations, growth strategies, including plans to open and close stores/shops, projections of future profitability, results of operations, capital expenditures, financial condition, or other “forward-looking” information and may include statements about net sales, product margin, occupancy costs, selling, general, and administrative expenses, operating margins, liquidity, operations, and/or inventory. All of these forward-looking statements are subject to risks, management assumptions, and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the relevant forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included herein are made only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.Current, recent past, and future economic and financial conditions have caused and may continue to cause a decline in consumer spending and may adversely affect the Company’s business, operations, liquidity, financial results, and stock price.The Company’s operating results are affected by the relative condition of the U.S. economy. Business and financial performance may be adversely affected by current, recent past, and future economic conditions that cause a decline in business and consumer spending, including a reduction in the availability of credit, increased unemployment levels, higher energy and fuel costs, rising interest rates, financial market volatility, and recession. Additionally, the Company may experience difficulties in operating and growing its operations to react to economic pressures in the U.S.As a business that depends on consumer discretionary spending, the Company’s customers may reduce their spending and purchases due to job losses or fear of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, higher consumer debt and interest rates, reduced access to credit, falling home prices, increased taxes, and/or lower consumer confidence. Decreases in comparable store net sales, customer traffic, or average dollar per transaction negatively affect the Company’s financial performance, and a prolonged period of depressed consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results. Promotional activities, product liquidation, and decreased demand for consumer products could affect profitability and margins. Customer traffic is difficult to forecast and mitigate. As a consequence, sales, operating, and financial results for a particular period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, it is difficult to forecast expected results for future periods. Any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition and could adversely affect the Company’s stock price.Additionally, many of the effects and consequences of U.S. and global financial and economic conditions could potentially have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity and capital resources, including the ability to raise additional capital, if needed, or the ability of banks to honor draws on the Company’s credit facility, or could otherwise negatively affect the Company’s business and financial results. Although the Company normally generates funds from operations to pay operating expenses and fund capital expenditures and has a revolving credit agreement in place until November 30, 2017 (but does not have any borrowings under it other than amounts used for stand-by letters of credit as of February 28, 2015), the ability to continue to meet these cash requirements over the long-term may require access to additional sources of funds, including capital and credit markets. Continuing market volatility, the impact of government intervention in financial markets, and general economic conditions may adversely affect the ability of the Company to access capital and credit markets.Global economic conditions may also adversely affect our vendors’ access to capital and liquidity with which to maintain their inventory, production levels, and product quality and to operate their businesses, all of which could adversely affect the Company’s supply chain. Furthermore, our vendors might reduce their offerings of customer incentives and vendor allowances, cooperative marketing expenditures, and product promotions. Market instability could make it more difficult for the Company and its vendors to accurately forecast future product demand trends, which could cause the Company to carry too much or too little merchandise in various product categories. Current, recent past, and future financial and economic conditions may also 5Table of Contentsadversely affect landlords and real estate developers of retail space, which may limit the availability of attractive leased store locations. Current, recent past, and future conditions may also adversely affect the Company’s product liquidation efforts.The Company’s business faces a great deal of competitive pressure.The athletic shoes, apparel, and accessories business is highly competitive. The Company competes for customers, customer service professionals, locations, merchandise, services, and other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional, national, and branded vendor operated retailers. Those competitors, some of whom have a greater market presence than the Company, include traditional brick and mortar store-based retailers, Internet and digital businesses, and other forms of retail commerce. A factor in the Company’s success is its ability to differentiate itself from its competitors. Unanticipated changes in the pricing and other practices of those competitors may adversely affect the Company’s performance. The Company cannot guarantee that it will be able to compete successfully against current and/or future companies within its industry and market space.The Company may experience fluctuations in results of operations due to seasonality of the business.The Company’s business is subject to seasonal influences, with a major portion of sales and income historically realized during the second and fourth quarters of the fiscal year, which include the back-to-school and holiday seasons, respectively. This seasonality causes operating results to vary considerably from quarter to quarter and could materially and adversely affect the Company’s results and stock price. In addition, comparable store sales are subject to significant fluctuation, on a monthly, quarterly, and annual basis, and we anticipate this fluctuation to continue in the future.The Company’s business is dependent on consumer preferences and fashion trends and successful management of inventory.The athletic footwear and softgoods industry is subject to changing fashion trends and customer preferences. The Company cannot guarantee that its merchandise selection will accurately reflect customer preferences when it is offered for sale or that the Company will be able to identify and respond quickly to fashion trends and changes, particularly given the long lead times for ordering much of the Company’s merchandise from vendors. For example, merchandise is generally ordered six to nine months prior to delivery to stores/shops. Sufficient inventory levels must be maintained for the Company to operate its business successfully. However, the Company must guard against accumulating excess or irrelevant inventory. If the Company fails to accurately anticipate either the market for merchandise or customers’ purchasing habits, the Company may be forced to rely on markdowns, promotional sales, or product liquidation to dispose of excess, irrelevant, and/or slow moving inventory, which may adversely affect performance and results.The Company’s business may be adversely affected by changes in merchandise sourcing.All of the Company’s vendors must comply with applicable laws and required standards of conduct. The ability to find qualified vendors and access products in a timely and efficient manner can be a challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced outside the United States. Political or financial instability, vendor employment relations, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs, and other factors relating to foreign trade, and the ability to access suitable merchandise on acceptable terms, are beyond the Company’s control and could adversely impact performance and results.Changes in relationships with any of the Company’s key vendors may have an adverse impact on future results.The Company’s business is dependent, to a significant degree, upon the ability to purchase premium brand-name merchandise at competitive prices, including the receipt of volume discounts, cooperative advertising, and markdown allowances from vendors. The Company purchased approximately 87% of its merchandise in fiscal 2015 from its top five vendors and expects to continue to obtain a significant percentage of its product from these vendors in future periods. Approximately 73% of merchandise was purchased from one vendor (Nike). The inability to obtain merchandise in a timely manner from major vendors (particularly Nike) as a result of business decisions by vendors or disruptions in the global transportation network such as a port strike, weather conditions, work stoppages, or other labor unrest could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, and results of operations of the Company. Because of the strong dependence on Nike, any adverse development in Nike’s distribution strategy, financial condition, or results of operations or the inability of Nike to develop and manufacture products that appeal to the Company’s target customers could also have an adverse effect on the business, financial condition, and results of operations of the Company.6Table of ContentsThe Company’s operations are dependent primarily on a single distribution center, and the loss of, or disruption in, the distribution center and other factors affecting the distribution of merchandise could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and operations.The distribution functions for the Company are primarily handled from a single facility in Indianapolis, Indiana. Any significant interruption in the operation of the distribution center due to natural disasters, accidents, system failures, or other unforeseen causes could delay or impair the ability to distribute merchandise to stores/shops and/or fulfill orders originating from any of its commerce sites, which could cause sales to decline.The Company depends upon third-party carriers for shipment of a significant amount of merchandise to both its stores/shops and directly to its consumers. An interruption in service by these third-party carriers for any reason could cause temporary disruptions in business, a loss of sales and profits, and other material adverse effects.Freight costs are impacted by changes in fuel prices through surcharges, among other factors. Fuel prices and surcharges affect freight costs both on inbound freight from vendors to the distribution center as well as outbound freight from the distribution center to stores/shops, vendor returns and third party liquidators, and shipments of product to customers. Increases in fuel prices and surcharges and other factors may increase freight costs.The Company may need to record significant non-cash impairment charges if its long-lived assets, including goodwill, become impaired.The Company reviews its property and equipment when events indicate that the carrying value of such assets may be impaired. If an impairment trigger is identified, the carrying value is compared to its estimated fair value and provisions for impairment are recorded as appropriate. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually, at a minimum. Fair value of a reporting unit with goodwill is determined based on a combination of a discounted cash flow approach and market-based approach, which is compared to the reporting unit’s carrying value and provisions for impairment are recorded as appropriate. Impairment losses are significantly affected by estimates of future operating cash flows and estimates of fair value. Estimates of future operating cash flows are identified from strategic long-range plans, which are based upon experience, knowledge, and expectations; however, these estimates can be affected by such factors as future operating results, future store/shop profitability, and future economic conditions, all of which can be difficult to predict accurately. Any significant deterioration in macroeconomic conditions could affect the fair value of our long-lived assets, including goodwill, and could result in future impairment charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations.The Company’s business may be adversely affected by the failure to identify suitable store locations and acceptable lease terms.To take advantage of customer traffic and shopping preferences, the Company needs to obtain and retain stores in desirable locations, such as in regional and neighborhood malls anchored by major department stores. The Company cannot be certain that desirable mall or other locations will continue to be available. Several large landlords dominate the ownership of prime malls in the United States and because of the dependence upon these landlords for a substantial number of the Company’s store locations, any significant erosion of the relationships with these landlords or their financial condition would negatively affect our ability to obtain and retain locations. Additionally, further landlord consolidation may negatively affect our ability to obtain and retain store locations at acceptable lease terms. The Company’s average remaining store lease term is relatively short. Due to the short-term nature, the Company is subject to potential market changes, which could increase occupancy costs and adversely affect profitability.The Company’s future results may be adversely affected if it is unable to implement its strategic plan and growth initiatives.The Company’s ability to succeed in its strategic plan and growth initiatives could require significant capital investment and management attention, which may result in the diversion of these resources from the core business and other business issues and opportunities. Additionally, any new initiative is subject to certain risks, including customer acceptance, competition, ramp up time, product differentiation, challenges to economies of scale in merchandise sourcing, and/or the ability to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to develop and successfully implement its strategic plan and growth initiatives to a point where they will become profitable or generate positive cash flow. If the Company cannot successfully execute its strategic plan and growth initiatives, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted.7Table of ContentsChanges in labor conditions, as well as the Company’s inability to attract and retain the talent required for the business, may negatively affect operating results.Future performance will depend upon the Company’s ability to attract, retain, and motivate qualified employees, including store personnel, field management, senior management, and other key personnel. Many sales associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. The ability to meet the Company’s labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, health care and minimum wage legislation, and changing demographics. If the Company is unable to attract and retain quality sales associates, management, and other key personnel the ability to meet growth goals or to sustain expected levels of profitability may be compromised. In addition, a large number of the Company’s retail employees are paid the prevailing minimum wage, which if increased would negatively affect profitability and could, if the increase were material, require the Company to adjust its business strategy, which may include the closure of less profitable and/or under-performing stores. Although none of the Company’s employees are currently covered under collective bargaining agreements, the Company cannot guarantee that employees will not elect to be represented by labor unions in the future. If some, or all, of the Company’s workforce were to become unionized and collective bargaining agreement terms were significantly different from the Company’s current compensation arrangements or work practices, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations.Because the Company’s stock price may be volatile, it could experience substantial declines.The market price of the Company’s common stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience volatility. The Company’s quarterly operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, and other developments affecting the Company, its key vendors, or competitors, could cause the market price of the Company’s common stock to fluctuate substantially. While in recent years, the U.S. broader stock market has experienced sustained price increases, significant stock price and volume fluctuations may return depending on national and international macroeconomic factors, changes in monetary policy, or other factors. As we have seen in the recent past, this volatility would likely affect the market prices of securities issued by many companies, often for reasons unrelated to their operating performance, and may adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock.The Company cannot provide any guaranty of future dividend payments or that it will continue to repurchase stock pursuant to its stock repurchase program.The Company’s Board of Directors determines if it is in the best interest of the Company to pay a dividend to its shareholders and the amount of any dividend, and declares all dividend payments. There is no assurance that the Board of Directors will continue to declare dividends in the future or that the Company’s results of operations and financial condition will allow for a dividend to be declared. The Company’s current repurchase program, as amended, authorizes the purchase of an additional 5 million shares through December 31, 2018 (this, in addition to 1.2 million shares remaining available to repurchase under a previously authorized program). However, the Company is not obligated to make any purchases under the repurchase program and the program may be discontinued at any time.A security breach of the Company’s information technology systems could damage the Company’s reputation and have an adverse effect on operations and results.The Company accepts electronic payment cards from customers. The Company also receives and maintains certain personal information about customers and employees. A number of retailers have experienced security breaches in which credit and debit card and other sensitive information has been stolen or compromised. While the Company has taken significant steps to prevent the occurrence of security breaches in this respect, the Company may, in the future, become subject to claims for purportedly fraudulent transactions arising out of the theft or compromise of credit or debit card or other information, and may also be subject to lawsuits or other proceedings in the future relating to these types of incidents. Any such proceeding could be a distraction to the Company and cause significant unplanned losses and expenses. If the Company’s security and information systems are compromised, if computer and mobile telephone equipment is lost or stolen, or if employees fail to comply with the applicable laws and regulations and electronic payment card or personal information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately or illegally, it could adversely affect the Company’s reputation, as well as results of operations, and could result in litigation, the imposition of penalties, or significant expenditures to remediate any damage to persons whose credit card, debit card, or personal information has been compromised. The Company is continuously working to install new, and upgrade its existing, information technology systems and provide employee awareness training around phishing and other cyber risks to ensure that the Company is protected, to the greatest extent possible, against cyber risks and security breaches. However, there is no guarantee that the Company will not be affected by cyber risks or security breaches.8Table of ContentsA major failure of technology and information systems could adversely affect the Company’s business.The efficient operation of the Company’s business is dependent on technology and information systems. In particular, the Company relies on information systems to effectively manage sales, distribution, supply chain, merchandise planning, and allocation functions. The Company possesses offsite recovery capabilities for its information systems. However, the failure of technology and information systems to perform as designed could disrupt the Company’s business and adversely affect sales and profitability. There is the risk that the Company could experience problems with its information systems due to system implementation issues, which include the replacement of the Company’s supply chain management, warehouse management, and merchandising systems now and over the next few years, system outages or failures, viruses, hackers, or other causes. Various risks associated with digital sales may adversely affect the Company’s business.The Company sells merchandise digitally over the Internet through www.finishline.com, www.boulderrunningcompany.com, and www.macys.com, as well as through mobile commerce at m.finishline.com. The digital operations are subject to numerous risks, including but not limited to, unanticipated operating problems, reliance on third party computer hardware, software, and service providers, system failures, and the need to invest in additional computer systems. The digital operations also involve other risks that could have an impact on the Company’s results of operations, including hiring, retention and training of personnel to conduct the digital operations, diversion of sales from the stores/shops, rapid technological changes, liability for online content, credit card fraud, and risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate the various websites and related support systems, such as computer viruses, telecommunication failures, break-ins, security breaches, and similar disruptions. There can be no assurance that the digital operations will continue to achieve sales and profitability growth or remain at their current or any anticipated levels.The Company’s business may be adversely affected by regulatory and litigation developments.Various aspects of the Company’s operations are subject to federal, state, or local laws, rules, and regulations, any of which may change from time to time. Sales and results of operations may be adversely affected by new legal requirements, including but not limited to, comprehensive federal health care legislation enacted in 2010, and attendant regulations. For example, new legislation or regulations may result in increased costs directly for compliance or indirectly to the extent that such requirements increase prices of goods and services because of increased compliance costs. Additionally, the Company is regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of doing business. Litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect the business operations and financial performance of the Company.Anti-takeover provisions under the Indiana Business Corporation Law and the Company’s Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws may render more difficult the accomplishment of mergers or the assumption of control by a principal shareholder, making more difficult the removal of management.Certain provisions of the Indiana Business Corporation Law (the “IBCL”), specifically the provision in Section 23-1-35-1, the control share acquisitions provisions in Sections 23-1-42-1 to 23-1-42-11, and the business combination provisions in Sections 23-1-43-1 to 23-1-43-24, and certain provisions of the Company’s Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, specifically the provisions regarding preferred stock, the provisions requiring a supermajority vote for certain business combinations, and for certain amendments to the Restated Articles of Incorporation, the provisions requiring approval of certain transactions by the continuing directors, the provisions for a staggered board, and the provisions limiting removal of directors to removal for cause, may have the effect of discouraging an unsolicited attempt by another person or entity to acquire control of the Company. These provisions may make mergers, tender offers, the removal of directors or management, and certain other transactions more difficult or more costly and could discourage or limit shareholder participation in such types of transactions, whether or not such transactions are favored by the majority of the Company’s shareholders. Such provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of the Company’s common stock. Further, the existence of these anti-takeover measures may cause potential bidders to look elsewhere, rather than initiating acquisition discussions with the Company. Any of these factors could reduce the price of the Company’s common stock.The Company’s shops within department stores operations are reliant on Macy’s.The Company’s shops within department stores use selling space within Macy’s. These shops within department stores are dependent on the Macy’s point of sale and other technological platforms, including those related to www.macys.com. In addition, the Macy’s management team, corporate strategy, and marketing and advertising campaigns have an effect on the success of the Company’s shops within department stores. The Company has limited influence over these factors, so a strategic shift in any of these factors or a significant disruption in Macy’s business could result in a deterioration in the operations of the Company’s shops within department stores.9Table of ContentsAdditionally, the Company needs to obtain and retain shops within department stores in desirable locations. The Company cannot be certain that desirable locations will continue to be available because of the dependence upon Macy’s in negotiating the shop locations. Any significant erosion of the relationship with Macy’s or its financial condition could negatively affect our ability to obtain and retain shop locations.The effects of natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, and public health issues may adversely affect our business.Natural disasters, including earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, and tornadoes, may affect the operations of our stores/shops and distribution center. In addition, acts of terrorism, acts of war, and military action both in the United States and abroad can have a significant effect on economic conditions and may negatively affect our ability to purchase merchandise from suppliers for sale to our customers. Public health issues, such as the flu, viruses for which there is currently no known cure, or other pandemics, whether occurring in the United States or abroad, could disrupt our operations and result in a significant part of our workforce being unable to operate or maintain our infrastructure or perform other tasks necessary to conduct our business. Additionally, public health issues may disrupt, or have an adverse effect on, our suppliers’ operations, our operations, our customers, or customer demand. Our ability to mitigate the adverse impact of these events depends, in part, upon the effectiveness of our disaster preparedness and response planning as well as business continuity planning. However, we cannot be certain that our plans will be adequate or implemented properly in the event of an actual disaster. We may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our locations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Any significant declines in public safety or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect customer spending habits could have a material adverse effect on customer purchases of our products.Health care reform could adversely affect our business.In 2010, Congress enacted comprehensive health care reform legislation which, among other things, includes guaranteed coverage requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded, and imposes new and significant taxes on health insurers and health care benefits. Due to the breadth and complexity of the health care reform legislation and the large number of eligible employees who currently choose not to participate in our plans, it is difficult to predict the overall effect of the statute and related regulations on our business over the coming years. Due to the health care law changes, some eligible employees who had historically not chosen to participate in our health care plans have found it more advantageous to participate in our plans effective January 1, 2015. Such changes include tax penalties to persons for not obtaining health care coverage and being ineligible for certain health care subsidies if an employee is eligible for health care coverage under an employer’s plan. If a larger number of eligible employees, who currently choose not to participate in our plans, choose to enroll over the next few years, it may significantly increase our health care coverage costs and negatively affect our financial results.Other factors may negatively affect the Company’s business and results.The foregoing list of risk factors is not exhaustive or exclusive. Other factors and unanticipated events could adversely affect the Company and its business and results. The Company does not undertake any obligation to revise any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date the statement is made.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNot applicable.10Table of Contents