Item 1A. Risk Factors The more prominent risks and uncertainties inherent in our business are described in more detail below. However, these are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Our business may face additional risks and uncertainties that are unknown to us at this time. Our Business Has Been Affected by the Global Economic Crisis Our revenues continue to be impacted by economic trends that have caused a general downturn in the advertising sector. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing unprecedented volatility and disruption. The markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for many companies, including us. If economic trends continue to worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience a further adverse effect, which may be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to access capital. In addition, our ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. We Have Substantial Indebtedness and Debt Service Requirements At December 31, 2008 our long-term debt (including the current portion thereof and our guarantee of debt of Surtsey Productions) was approximately $135,411,000. We have borrowed and expect to continue to borrow to finance acquisitions and for other corporate purposes. Because of our substantial indebtedness, a significant portion of our cash flow from operations is required for debt service. Our leverage could make us vulnerable to an increase in interest rates, a downturn in our operating performance or a decline in general economic conditions. On March 9, 2009, the Revolving Commitments (as defined in the Credit Agreement) were permanently reduced to $150,000,000, will be reduced on September 30, 2009 to $148,750,000 and will continue to be permanently reduced at the end of each calendar quarter in amounts ranging from 4.375% to 12.5% of the total Revolving Commitments that was in effect on March 31, 2008. In addition, the Revolving Commitments shall be further reduced by specified percentages of Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the Credit Agreement) based on leverage ratios. Any outstanding balance under the Credit Agreement will be due on the maturity date of July 29, 2012. We believe that cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our debt service requirements for interest and scheduled quarterly payments of principal under the Credit Agreement. However, if such cash flow is not sufficient, we may be required to sell additional equity securities, refinance our obligations or dispose of one or more of our properties in order to make such scheduled payments. We cannot be sure that we would be able to effect any such transactions on favorable terms, if at all. Our Debt Covenants Restrict our Financial and Operational Flexibility Our Credit Agreement contains a number of financial covenants which, among other things, require us to maintain specified financial ratios and impose certain limitations on us with respect to investment, additional indebtedness, dividends, repurchase of equity, distributions, guarantees, liens and encumbrances. Our ability to meet these financial ratios can be affected by operating performance or other events beyond our control, and 23 Table of Contents we cannot assure you that we will meet those ratios. Certain events of default under our Credit Agreement could allow the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our indebtedness under the Credit Agreement is secured by a first priority lien on substantially all of our assets and of our subsidiaries, by a pledge of our subsidiaries’ stock and by a guarantee of our subsidiaries. If the amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement were accelerated, the lenders could proceed against such available collateral. The current economic crisis has reduced demand for advertising in general, including advertising on our radio and television stations. If our revenues were to be significantly less than planed due to difficult market conditions or for other reasons, our ability to maintain compliance with the financial covenants in our credit agreements would become increasingly difficult. We Depend on Key Personnel Our business is partially dependent upon the performance of certain key individuals, particularly Edward K. Christian, our President and CEO. Although we have entered into employment and non-competition agreements with Mr. Christian, which terminate on March 31, 2014, and certain other key personnel, including on-air personalities, we cannot be sure that such key personnel will remain with us. We do not maintain key man life insurance on Mr. Christian’s life. We can give no assurance that all or any of these employees will remain with us or will retain their audiences. Many of our key employees are at-will employees who are under no legal obligation to remain with us. Our competitors may choose to extend offers to any of these individuals on terms which we may be unwilling to meet. In addition, any or all of our key employees may decide to leave for a variety of personal or other reasons beyond our control. Furthermore, the popularity and audience loyalty of our key on-air personalities is highly sensitive to rapidly changing public tastes. A loss of such popularity or audience loyalty is beyond our control and could limit our ability to generate revenues. We Depend on Key Stations Historically our top six markets when combined represented 46%, 47% and 48% of our net operating revenue for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Accordingly, we may have greater exposure to adverse events or conditions that affect the economy in any of these markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations and financial condition. Local and National Economic Conditions May Affect our Advertising Revenue Our financial results are dependent primarily on our ability to generate advertising revenue through rates charged to advertisers. The advertising rates a station is able to charge is affected by many factors, including the general strength of the local and national economies. Generally, advertising declines during periods of economic recession or downturns in the economy, such as we are currently experiencing. As a result, our revenue has been and is likely to be adversely affected during such periods, whether they occur on a national level or in the geographic markets in which we operate. During such periods we may also be required to reduce our advertising rates in order to attract available advertisers. Such a decline in advertising rates could also have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations and financial condition. Our Stations Must Compete for Advertising Revenues in Their Respective Markets Both radio and television broadcasting are highly competitive businesses. Our stations compete for listeners/viewers and advertising revenues within their respective markets directly with other radio and/or television stations, as well as with other media, such as broadcast television and/or radio (as applicable), cable television and/or radio, satellite television and/or satellite radio systems, newspapers, magazines, direct mail, the internet, coupons and billboard advertising. Audience ratings and market shares are subject to change, and any change in a particular market could have a material adverse effect on the revenue of our stations located in that market. While we already compete in some of our markets with other stations with similar programming formats, if another radio station in a market were to convert its programming format to a format similar to one of our stations, if a new station were to adopt a comparable format or if an existing competitor 24 Table of Contents were to strengthen its operations, our stations could experience a reduction in ratings and/or advertising revenue and could incur increased promotional and other expenses. Other radio or television broadcasting companies may enter into the markets in which we operate or may operate in the future. These companies may be larger and have more financial resources than we have. We cannot assure you that any of our stations will be able to maintain or increase their current audience ratings and advertising revenues. Our Success Depends on our Ability to Identify, Consummate and Integrate Acquired Stations As part of our strategy, we have pursued and may continue to pursue acquisitions of additional radio and television stations, subject to the terms of our credit agreement. Broadcasting is a rapidly consolidating industry, with many companies seeking to consummate acquisitions and increase their market share. In this environment, we compete and will continue to compete with many other buyers for the acquisition of radio and television stations. Some of those competitors may be able to outbid us for acquisitions because they have greater financial resources. As a result of these and other factors, our ability to identify and consummate future acquisitions is uncertain. Our consummation of all future acquisitions is subject to various conditions, including FCC and other regulatory approvals. The FCC must approve any transfer of control or assignment of broadcast licenses. In addition, acquisitions may encounter intense scrutiny under federal and state antitrust laws. Our future acquisitions may be subject to notification under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 and to a waiting period and possible review by the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission. Any delays, injunctions, conditions or modifications by any of these federal agencies could have a negative effect on us and result in the abandonment of all or part of attractive acquisition opportunities. We cannot predict whether we will be successful in identifying future acquisition opportunities or what the consequences will be of any acquisitions. Certain of our acquisitions may prove unprofitable and fail to generate anticipated cash flows. In addition, the success of any completed acquisition will depend on our ability to effectively integrate the acquired stations. The process of integrating acquired stations may involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of operations, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, risk of entering new markets, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired stations. Our Business is Subject to Extensive Federal Regulation The broadcasting industry is subject to extensive federal regulation which, among other things, requires approval by the FCC of transfers, assignments and renewals of broadcasting licenses, limits the number of broadcasting properties that may be acquired within a specific market, and regulates programming and operations. For a detailed description of the material regulations applicable to our business, see “Federal Regulation of Radio and Television Broadcasting” and “Other FCC Requirements” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K. Failure to comply with these regulations could, under certain circumstances and among other things, result in the denial or revocation of FCC licenses, shortened license renewal terms, monetary fines or other penalties which would adversely affect our profitability. Changes in ownership requirements could limit our ability to own or acquire stations in certain markets. New Technologies May Affect our Broadcasting Operations The FCC has and is considering ways to introduce new technologies to the broadcasting industry, including satellite and terrestrial delivery of digital audio broadcasting and the standardization of available technologies which significantly enhance the sound quality of AM broadcasters. We are unable to predict the effect such technologies may have on our broadcasting operations. The capital expenditures necessary to implement such technologies could be substantial. Moreover, the FCC may impose additional public service obligations on television broadcasters in return for their use of the digital television spectrum. This could add to our operational costs. One issue yet to be resolved is the extent to which cable systems will be required to carry broadcasters’ new digital channels. Our television stations are highly dependent on their carriage by cable systems in the areas they serve. FCC rules that impose no or limited obligations on cable systems to 25 Table of Contents carry the digital television signals of television broadcast stations in their local markets could adversely affect our television operations. The Company is Controlled by our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman As of March 2, 2009, Edward K. Christian, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, holds approximately 62% of the combined voting power of our Common Stock (not including options to acquire Class B Common Stock and based on Class B shares generally entitled to ten votes per share). As a result, Mr. Christian generally is able to control the vote on most matters submitted to the vote of stockholders and, therefore, is able to direct our management and policies, except with respect to (i) the election of the two Class A directors, (ii) those matters where the shares of our Class B Common Stock are only entitled to one vote per share, and (iii) other matters requiring a class vote under the provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws or applicable law. For a description of the voting rights of our Common Stock, see Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included with this Form 10-K. Without the approval of Mr. Christian, we will be unable to consummate transactions involving an actual or potential change of control, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then-current market prices. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 