ITEM 1A: Risk Factors Our business is subject to various risks and uncertainties. Any of the risks discussed below, or elsewhere in this Form 10-K or our other filings with the SEC, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. We have a significant amount of indebtedness which could have important consequences. For example, it could: · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations; · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic, industry and competitive conditions; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less leverage; · limit our ability to borrow additional funds; · limit our ability to make investments in technology and infrastructure improvements; and · limit our ability to make significant acquisitions. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to make our interest payments or to repay our debt at maturity, we may have to obtain alternative financing, which may not be available to us. If we are unable to fund our significant cash needs, we may be unable to expand our business as planned or to service our debt. We require substantial cash to operate our Medical Equipment Outsourcing programs and service our debt. Our outsourcing programs require us to invest a significant amount of cash in medical equipment purchases. To the extent that such expenditures cannot be funded from our operating cash flow, borrowings under our senior secured credit facility or other financing sources, we may not be able to grow as currently planned. We currently expect that over the next 12 months, we will invest approximately $90.0 million 20 Table of Contents in new and pre-owned medical equipment and other capital expenditures. This estimate is subject to numerous assumptions, including revenue growth, the number of AMPP program signings, and any significant changes in GPO contracts. In addition, a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to servicing our debt and there are significant restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness under the Second Lien Senior Indenture and the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility. Primarily because of our debt service obligations and debt refinancing charges and elevated depreciation and amortization charges we have incurred subsequent to the Transaction, we have had a history of net losses. If we consistently incur net losses, it could result in our inability to finance our business in the future. We had net losses of $18.6, $23.5, $16.1, and $47.5 million during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the seven months ended December 31, 2007 and the five months ended May 31, 2007, respectively. Our ability to use our United States federal income tax net operating loss carryforwards to offset our future taxable income may be limited. If we are limited in our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards in future years in which we have taxable income, we will pay more current taxes than if we were able to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards without limitation, which could harm our results of operations and liquidity. We may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms or at all under our existing credit facilities or otherwise because of the deterioration of the credit and capital markets. Thus, we may be unable to expand our business as planned or to service our debt. Global financial markets and economic conditions continue to be disrupted and volatile due to a variety of factors, including significant write-offs in the financial services sector and the current weak economic conditions. As a result, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased while the availability of funds from those markets has diminished. In particular, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets and the solvency of lending counterparties, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt on similar terms or at all and reduced, or in some cases ceased, to provide funding to borrowers. In addition, lending counterparties under our existing revolving credit facilities may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due. Moreover, without adequate funding, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy, complete future acquisitions, or take advantage of other business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents We have risks related to our pension plan, which could impact our financial position. The Company has a defined benefit pension plan covering certain current and former employees. Although benefits under the pension plan were frozen in 2002, funding obligations under our pension plan continues to be impacted by the performance of the financial markets. If the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected, the likelihood of our being required to make contributions will increase. The equity markets can be, and recently have been, volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. If our customers’ patient census or services decrease, the revenues generated by our business could decrease. Our operating results are dependent in part on the amount and types of equipment necessary to service our customers’ needs, which are heavily influenced by the number of patients our customers serve at any time (which we refer to as “patient census”) and the services those patients receive. At times of lower patient census, our customers have a decreased need for our services on a supplemental or peak needs basis. During severe economic downturns like the one we are currently experiencing, the number of hospital admissions and inpatient surgeries decline as consumers reduce their use of non-essential health care services. Our operating results can also vary depending on the timing and severity of the cold and flu season, local, regional or national epidemics, and the impact of national catastrophes, as well as other factors affecting patient census and service demand. A continuation of the global economic downturn could continue to adversely affect our customers and suppliers or have new, additional adverse effects on them, which could have further adverse effects on our operating results and financial position. We believe our customers have been adversely affected by the current global economic downturn and, the volatility of the credit and capital markets over the past year, which have led to declines in commercial and consumer spending. The impact of the global economic downturn on our customers may result in, among other things, decreased patient census, decreased number of non-essential patient services, increased uncompensated care and bad debt, increased difficulty obtaining financing on favorable terms and tighter capital and operating budgets. Many of our customers depend on investment income to supplement inadequate third-party payor reimbursement. The recent disruption in the capital and credit markets has adversely affected the value of many investments, reducing our customers’ ability to access cash reserves to fund their operations. If current economic conditions continue or worsen, our customers may seek to further reduce their costs and may be unable to pay for our services, resulting in reduced orders, slower payment cycles, increased bad debt, and customer bankruptcies. Our suppliers also may be negatively impacted by the economic downturn and tighter capital and credit markets. If our key suppliers experience financial difficulty and are unable to deliver to us the equipment we require, we could be forced to seek alternative 22 Table of Contents sources of medical equipment or to purchase equipment on less favorable terms, or we could be unable to fulfill our requirements. A delay in procuring equipment or an increase in the cost to purchase equipment could limit our ability to provide equipment to customers on a timely and cost-effective basis. All of these factors related to a general economic downturn, which are out of our control, could have a negative impact on our financial condition. We have relationships with certain key suppliers, and adverse developments concerning these suppliers could delay our ability to procure equipment or provide certain services, or increase our cost of purchasing equipment. We purchased medical equipment from approximately 150 manufacturers in 2009. Our ten largest manufacturers of medical equipment accounted for approximately 78% of our direct medical equipment purchases in 2009. Adverse developments concerning key suppliers or our relationships with them could force us to seek alternative sources for our medical equipment or to purchase such equipment on less unfavorable terms. A delay in procuring equipment or an increase in our cost to purchase equipment could limit our ability to provide equipment to our customers on a timely and cost-effective basis. In addition, if we do not to have access to certain parts, or if manufacturers do not provide access to the appropriate equipment manuals or training, we may not be able to provide certain technical and professional services. If we are unable to change the manner in which health care providers traditionally procure medical equipment, we may not be able to achieve significant revenue growth. We believe that the strongest competition to our outsourcing solutions is the direct purchase or capital lease of medical equipment, and self-management of that equipment. Many hospitals and alternate site providers view outsourcing primarily as a means of meeting short-term or peak supplemental needs, rather than as a long-term, effective and cost-efficient alternative to purchasing or leasing equipment. Many health care providers may continue to purchase or lease a substantial portion of their medical equipment and to manage and maintain it on their own. Our competitors may engage in significant competitive practices or sell significant amounts of surplus equipment, which could cause us to lose market share, reduce prices, or increase expenditures. Our competition may engage in competitive practices that could cause us to lose market share, reduce our prices, or increase our expenditures. For example, competitors may sell significant amounts of surplus equipment, thereby decreasing the demand for our equipment rental services. 23 Table of Contents Our competitors may bundle products and services offered to customers, some of which we do not offer. If competitors offer their products and services to customers on a combined basis with reduced prices, and we do not offer some of these products or cannot offer them on comparable terms, we may have a competitive disadvantage that will lower the demand for our services. A substantial portion of our revenues come from customers with which we do not have long-term commitments, and cancellations by or disputes with customers could decrease the amount of revenues we generate, thereby reducing our ability to operate and expand our business. For the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 62% of our outsourcing revenue was derived from customers that contracted with us or from hospitals and other providers that purchased equipment or services from us through a GPO that contracted with us on behalf of its members. The source of the remaining 38% of revenue was from customers that do not purchase equipment or services from us through a contract. Our customers are generally not obligated to outsource our equipment under long-term commitments. In addition, many of our customers do not sign written contracts with us fixing the rights and obligations of the parties regarding matters such as billing, liability, warranty or use. Therefore, we face risks such as fluctuations in usage, inaccurate or false reporting of usage by customers and disputes over liabilities related to equipment use. We do not have written contracts with some of our AMPP customers for which we provide a substantial portion of the medical equipment that they use and provide substantial staffing resources. The non-contracted services we provide could be terminated by the customer without notice or payment of any termination fee. A large number of such terminations may adversely affect our ability to generate revenue growth and sufficient cash flows to support our growth plans. In addition, those customers with long-term commitments may have contracts that do not permit us to raise our prices, yet our cost to serve may increase. Any of these risks could reduce our ability to operate and expand our business. Consolidation in the health care industry may lead to a reduction in the prices we charge, thereby decreasing our revenues. Many hospitals and alternate site providers have combined to create health systems or IDNs. We believe this trend may continue. Any resulting IDN or health systems may have greater bargaining power over us, which could lead to a reduction in the prices we charge and a reduction in our revenues. Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to successfully identify and manage our acquisitions and a failure to do so could impede our revenue growth, thereby weakening our industry position. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to pursue acquisitions or other strategic relationships within the health care industry that we believe will enable us to generate 24 Table of Contents revenue growth. Future acquisitions may involve significant cash expenditures that could impede our revenue growth. In addition, our efforts to execute our acquisition strategy may be affected by our ability to identify suitable candidates and successfully bid, finance, negotiate and close acquisitions. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions. We may not be successful in acquiring other businesses, and the businesses we do acquire in the future may not ultimately produce returns that justify our related investment. Acquisitions may involve numerous risks, including: · difficulties assimilating personnel and integrating distinct business cultures; · diversion of management’s time and resources from existing operations; · potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired companies; and · exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies. If we are unable to continue to grow through acquisitions, our ability to generate revenue growth may be impaired. Uncertainty surrounding health care reform initiatives remains. Depending on the scope and form of final health care reform legislation and its implementation, our business may be adversely affected. The current presidential administration continues to push to reform health care in the United States. Health care reform legislation and its implementation could present challenges to our business, for example by resulting in an increase in the number of persons who have health care insurance, thereby reducing health care providers’ charity care and bad debt. The funding and form of health care reimbursement for the newly covered uninsured, however, remains unknown. Provider revenue per service may decline if funding sources include reductions in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement. Furthermore, reform may impose changes in health care delivery, reimbursement, operations or record keeping that are not compatible with our current offerings. The regulatory and political environment for health care can significantly influence health care providers’ decisions related to medical equipment. Historically, health care reform and political uncertainty have resulted in a change in how our customers purchase our services and have adversely affected our revenues. At this time, it is not possible for us to determine which health care reform initiatives will be adopted, when they will be adopted, how they will be financed or what impact they may have on our operating results or financial condition. Changes in third-party payor reimbursement for health care items and services may affect our customers’ ability to pay for our services, which could cause us to reduce our prices or adversely affect our ability to collect payments. Although our customers are health care providers that pay us directly for the services we deliver, they rely on third-party payor reimbursement for a substantial portion of their 25 Table of Contents operating revenue. Third-party payors include government payors like Medicare and Medicaid and private payors like insurance companies and managed care organizations. Third-party payors continue to engage in widespread efforts to control health care costs. Their cost containment initiatives include efforts to control utilization of services and limit reimbursement amounts. Reimbursement limitations can take many forms, including discounts, non-payment for certain care (for example, care associated with certain hospital-acquired conditions) and fixed payment rates for particular treatment modalities or plans, regardless of the provider’s actual costs in caring for a patient. Reimbursement policies have a direct effect on our customers’ ability to pay us for our services and an indirect effect on the prices we charge. Ongoing concerns about rising health care costs may cause more restrictive reimbursement policies to be implemented in the future. Restrictions on the amounts or manner of reimbursements to health care providers may affect the financial strength of our customers and amount our customers are able to pay for our services. We depend on key personnel and our inability to attract and retain key personnel could harm our business. Our financial performance is dependent in significant part on our ability to hire, develop and retain key personnel, including our senior executives, sales professionals, sales specialists, hospital management employees and other qualified workers. We have experienced and will continue to experience intense competition for these resources. The loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or other key personnel could significantly undermine our management expertise, key relationships with customers and suppliers, and our ability to provide efficient, quality health care services. If we are unable to maintain existing contracts or contract terms with, or enter into new contracts with GPOs or IDNs, we may lose customers and/or the associated revenues. Our revenue maintenance and growth depends, in part, on access to customers through contracts with GPOs and IDNs. In the past, we have been able to maintain and renew such contracts and expand the services we offer under such contracts. If we are unable to maintain our GPO or IDN contracts, or if the GPOs or IDNs seek additional discounts or other more beneficial terms on behalf of their members, we may lose a portion of existing business with, or revenues from, customers that are members of such GPOs and IDNs. Our cash flow fluctuates during the year because operating income as a percentage of revenue fluctuates with our quarterly operating results and we make semi-annual debt service payments. Our results of operations have been and can be expected to be subject to quarterly fluctuations. We may experience increased revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year, depending upon the timing and severity of the cold and flu season and the related increased hospital census and medical equipment usage during that season. Because a significant portion of our expenses are relatively fixed over these periods, our 26 Table of Contents operating income as a percentage of revenue tends to increase during the first and fourth quarter of each year. If the cold and flu season is delayed by as little as one month, or is less severe than in prior periods, our quarterly operating results for a current period can vary significantly from prior periods. Our quarterly results can also fluctuate as a result of such other factors as the timing of acquisitions, new AMPP agreements or new office openings. A portion of our revenues are derived from home care providers and nursing homes, and these health care providers may pose additional credit risks. Our nursing home and home care customers may pose additional credit risks since they are generally less financially sound than hospitals. These customers continue to face cost pressures. We may incur losses in the future due to the credit risks, including potential bankruptcy filings, associated with any of these customers. Our customers operate in a highly regulated environment. Regulations affecting them could cause us to incur additional expenses associated with compliance and licensing. We could be assessed fines and face possible exclusion from participation in state and federal health care programs if we violate laws or regulations applicable to our business. The health care industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels. While the majority of these regulations do not directly apply to us, there are some that do, including the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (“FDCA”) and certain state pharmaceutical licensing requirements. Although we believe we are in compliance with the FDCA, if the FDA expands the reporting requirements under the FDCA, we may be required to comply with the expanded requirements and may incur substantial additional expenses in doing so. With respect to state requirements, we are currently licensed in 14 states and may be required to obtain additional licenses, permits and registrations as state requirements change. Our failure to possess such licenses for our existing operations may subject us to certain additional expenses. In addition to the FDCA and state licensing requirements, we are impacted by federal and state laws and regulations aimed at protecting the privacy of individually identifiable health information, among other things, and detecting and preventing fraud, abuse and waste with respect to federal and state health care programs. Some of these laws and regulations apply directly to us. Additionally, many of our customers require us to abide by their policies relating to patient privacy, state and federal anti-kickback acts, and state and federal false claim acts and whistleblower protections. Given that our industry is heavily regulated, we may be subject to additional regulatory requirements. If our operations are found to be in violation of any governmental regulations to which we or our customers are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation. Penalties, damages, fines, or curtailment of our operations could significantly increase our cost of doing business, leading to difficulty 27 Table of Contents generating sufficient income to support our business. Also, if we are found to have violated certain federal or state laws or regulations regarding Medicare, Medicaid or other governmental funding sources, we could be subject to fines and possible exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs. Although we do not manufacture any medical equipment, we own a large fleet of medical equipment, which may be subject to equipment recalls or obsolescence. We incur significant expenditures to maintain a large and modern equipment fleet. Our equipment may be subject to recalls that could be expensive to implement and could result in revenue loss while the associated equipment is removed from service. We may be required to incur additional costs to repair or replace the equipment at our own expense or we may choose to purchase incremental new equipment from a supplier not affected by the recall. Additionally, our relationship with our customers may be damaged if we cannot promptly replace the equipment that has been recalled. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to respond effectively to changes in technology. Because we maintain a large fleet of equipment, we are subject to the risk of equipment obsolescence. If advancements in technology render a substantial portion of our equipment fleet obsolete, or if a competing technology becomes available that our customers prefer, we may experience a decrease in demand for our products, which could adversely affect our operating results and cause us to invest in new technology to maintain our market share and operating margins. Although we do not manufacture any medical equipment, our business entails the risk of claims related to the medical equipment that we outsource and service. We may not have adequate insurance to cover a claim, and it may be more expensive or difficult for us to obtain adequate insurance in the future. We may be liable for claims related to the use of our medical equipment or to our maintenance or repair of a customer’s medical equipment. Any such claims, if made and upheld, could make our business more expensive to operate and therefore less profitable. We may be subject to claims exceeding our insurance coverage or we may not be able to continue to obtain liability insurance at acceptable levels of cost and coverage. If we are found liable for any significant claims that are not covered by insurance, our liquidity and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In addition, litigation relating to a claim could adversely affect our existing and potential customer relationships, create adverse public relations and divert management’s time and resources from the operation of the business. We may incur increased costs that we cannot pass through to our customers. Our customer contracts may include limitations on our ability to increase prices over the term of the contract. On the other hand, we rely on third parties, including subcontractors, to provide some of our services and supplies and we do not always have fixed pricing 28 Table of Contents contracts with these subcontractors. Therefore, we are at risk of incurring increased costs that we are unable to pass through to our customers. Any failure of our management information systems could harm our business and operating results. We depend on our management information systems to actively manage our medical equipment fleet, control capital spending, and provide fleet information, including rental history, condition and availability of our medical equipment. These functions enhance our ability to optimize fleet utilization and redeployment. The inability of our management information systems to operate as we anticipate could damage our reputation with our customers, disrupt our business or result in, among other things, decreased revenues and increased overhead costs. Any such failure could harm our business and results of operations. There are inherent limitations in all internal control systems over financial reporting, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. While we have taken actions designed to address compliance with the internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC implementing these requirements, there are inherent limitations in our ability to control all circumstances. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer, does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple errors or mistakes. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions, such as growth of the Company or increased transaction volume, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. 29 Table of Contents The interests of our principal equity holder may not be aligned with the interests of our other security holders. IPC beneficially owns securities representing approximately 96% of the voting equity interests of Parent, and therefore indirectly controls our affairs and policies. Circumstances may occur in which the interests of our principal equity holder could be in conflict with the interests of our other security holders. In addition, our principal equity holder may have an interest in pursuing dividends, acquisitions, divestitures, capital expenditures or other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its equity investment, even though these transactions might involve risks to our other security holders. ITEM 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 