Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to other information included in this annual report, in evaluating our business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to the Company We will not continue to be profitable if hospitals and anesthesia providers do not buy and use our BIS system and purchase our BIS Sensors in sufficient quantities. Although we were profitable for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we will not continue to be profitable or increase our level of profitability if hospitals and anesthesia providers do not buy and use our BIS system in sufficient quantities. Our customers may determine that the cost of the BIS system exceeds cost savings in drugs, personnel and post-anesthesia care recovery that may result from use of the BIS system. Also, if third party reimbursement is based on charges or costs, patient monitoring with the BIS system may have the effect of reducing reimbursement because the charges or costs for surgical procedures may decline as a result of monitoring with the BIS system. In addition, hospitals and anesthesia providers may not accept the BIS system as an accurate or superior means of assessing a patient’s level of consciousness during surgery or in the intensive care unit. If extensive or frequent malfunctions occur, healthcare providers may also conclude that the BIS system is unreliable. If hospitals and anesthesia providers do not accept the BIS system as cost-effective, accurate and reliable, they will not buy and use the BIS system in sufficient quantities to enable us to continue to be profitable. Moreover, additional clinical research we or third parties undertake may fail to support the benefit of our products, including failing to support evidence of a link between the use of BIS monitoring and a reduction in the incidence of awareness. For example, a third-party study recently published in the New England Journal of Medicine compared BIS monitoring with a protocol based on end-tidal gas anesthetic in a patient population considered to be at high risk of awareness and concluded that, based upon a similar occurrence of awareness in both groups, no benefit of BIS monitoring was demonstrated. We believe that the rate of growth of our sensor revenue was, in part, adversely affected in the second half of 2008, and may be adversely affected in future periods as a result of this publication. If the patient safety benefits of BIS monitoring are not persuasive enough to lead to a wider adoption of our BIS technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The success of our business depends in a large part on continued use of the BIS system by our customers and, accordingly, sales by us of BIS Sensors. Sales of BIS Sensors have increased over time as a percentage of our revenue as compared to sales of Equipment as we built our installed base of monitors and modules, and we expect they will continue to increase. If use of our BIS system, and accordingly, sales of our BIS Sensors, do not increase, our ability to grow our revenue and maintain profitability could be adversely affected. We depend on our BIS system for substantially all of our revenue, and if the BIS system does not gain widespread market acceptance, then our revenue will not grow. To date, we have not achieved widespread market acceptance of the BIS system for use in the operating room or in the intensive care unit from healthcare providers or professional anesthesia organizations. Because we depend on our BIS system for substantially all of our revenue, and we have no other significant products, if we fail to achieve widespread market acceptance for the BIS system, we will not be able to sustain or grow our product revenue. Various factors may adversely affect our quarterly operating results at least through the first fiscal quarter of 2009. Various factors may adversely affect our quarterly operating results at least through the first fiscal quarter of 2009. Among these factors are the following: • a third party study published in March 2008 in the New England Journal of Medicine compared BIS monitoring with a protocol based on end-tidal gas anesthetic in a patient population considered to be at high 17 Table of Contents risk of awareness and concluded that, based upon a similar occurrence of awareness in both groups, no benefit of BIS monitoring was demonstrated. We believe that the publication of this study has had, and may continue to have an adverse effect on the rate at which existing or potential new customers purchase and use our products, which could adversely affect our operating results; • we have expanded our sales force and expect that such expansion will continue to increase our operating expenses in future periods and that such an increase would not be offset at least initially by an increase in revenue; as a result our operating results in such periods could be adversely affected; • we have shifted the focus of our sales and marketing efforts from expanding our customer base to deepening our relationships with our existing customers and increasing their sensor utilization and procedure penetration. As a result of this shift in focus, we expect our revenue from the sale of equipment to continue to decrease. As such, if we do not increase revenue from sales of our BIS Sensors quickly, or at all, our operating results could be adversely affected; • we may not realize expected benefits of favorable industry pronouncements on anesthesia awareness, including the position statements issued by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations, the American Society of Anesthesiologists House of Delegates, and the American Association of Nurse Anesthetists; • we have repurchased a portion of our 2.5% convertible senior notes due 2014, referred to as our notes, and we may make additional repurchases in the future. If any such repurchases are made at a discount to the face value of the note, we expect to record a gain on such transaction, which could affect our operating results in the quarter in which any such repurchase is made; and • we face risks beyond our control with respect to the continued challenges of the U.S. and worldwide economies including without limitation the effects of domestic inflation, declines in the value of our investments and the global rise in energy costs. If these or any other adverse factors cause a decline in our operating results, or if the market perceives that any such adverse factors could cause a decline in our operating results, in the first quarter of 2009 or beyond, then the trading price of our common stock may decline and your investment may lose value. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could cause our stock price to decrease. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly from quarter to quarter in the past and are likely to vary in the future. These fluctuations are due to several factors relating to the sale of our products, including: • the timing and volume of customer orders for our BIS system; • market acceptance of our BIS VISTA monitor; • use of and demand for our BIS Sensors; • transition of sales focus from expanding our customer base to developing our existing customers and increasing their sensor utilization and procedure penetration; • customer cancellations; • introduction of competitive products; • regulatory approvals; • changes in management; • turnover in our direct sales force; • expansion of our direct sales force which has increased our operating expenses, and this increase will not be offset, at least initially, by an increase in revenue; • effectiveness of new marketing and sales programs; 18 Table of Contents • communications published by industry organizations or other professional entities in the anesthesia community that are unfavorable to our business, including publication of the results of clinical studies; • trading in our convertible debt instruments; • repurchases of shares of our common stock or our notes; • the amount of our outstanding indebtedness and interest payments under debt obligations; • reductions in orders by our distributors and original equipment manufacturers; and • the timing and amount of our expenses. Because of these factors, it is likely that in some future quarter or quarters our operating results could fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If our quarterly operating results are below expectations in the future, the market price of our common stock would likely decrease. In addition, because we do not have a substantial backlog of customer orders for our BIS system or our BIS Sensors, revenue in any quarter depends on orders received in that quarter. Our quarterly results may also be adversely affected because some customers may have inadequate financial resources to purchase our products or may fail to pay for our products after receiving them. In particular, hospitals continue to experience financial constraints, consolidations and reorganizations as a result of cost containment measures and declining third-party reimbursement for services, which may result in decreased product orders or an increase in bad debt allowances in any quarter. The current crisis in global credit and financial markets could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations and our investment portfolio may become impaired further by a continuation of the global economic crisis. As widely reported, global credit and financial markets have been experiencing extreme disruptions in recent months, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. There can be no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in credit and financial markets and confidence in economic conditions. The current tightening of credit in financial markets may lead hospitals to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders with us. The volatility in the credit markets has severely diminished liquidity and capital availability. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruptions in the credit and financial markets and adverse global economic conditions, and if the current uncertain economic conditions continue or further deteriorate, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our investment portfolio consists primarily of money market accounts, certificates of deposit, high-grade commercial paper, high grade corporate bonds and debt obligations of various governmental agencies. Although the primary objectives of our investment policy are to preserve principal, maintain a high degree of liquidity to meet operating needs, and obtain competitive returns subject to prevailing market conditions, these investments are subject to risk of default, changes in credit rating and changes in market value. The current adverse financial market conditions have negatively affected investments in many industries, including those in which we invest. We recognized a loss of approximately $1.5 million in our statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2008 due to our disposition of certain investments with significant unrealized losses. The current global economic crisis may continue to have a negative impact on the market values of the investments in our investment portfolio. If the estimates we make, and the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may vary from those reflected in our financial statements. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. This includes estimates and judgments regarding revenue recognition, warranty reserves, inventory valuations, valuation allowances for deferred tax assets, allowances for doubtful accounts and share-based compensation expense. We base our estimates and judgments on historical 19 Table of Contents experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances at the time such estimates and judgments were made. There can be no assurance, however, that our estimates and judgments, or the assumptions underlying them, will be correct. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure as well as potential new accounting pronouncements are likely to impact our future financial position or results of operations. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, new regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and Nasdaq Global Market rules are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. In addition, future changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse, unexpected revenue fluctuations and affect our financial position or results of operations. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred with frequency in the past and may occur again in the future and as a result we may be required to make changes in our accounting policies. Our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and management time related to compliance activities. We expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed and we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal controls, and attestations of the effectiveness of our internal controls by our independent auditors. Our failure to maintain the effectiveness of our internal controls in accordance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. We may need additional financing for our future capital needs and may not be able to raise additional funds on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We believe that the financial resources available to us, including our current working capital and available revolving line of credit, will be sufficient to finance our planned operations and capital expenditures through at least the next 12 months. If we are unable to increase our revenue and continue to maintain positive cash flow, we will need to raise additional funds. We may also need additional financing if: • the research and development costs of our products or technology currently under development, including costs to fund our neuroscience program following termination in June 2007 of our alliance with Boston Scientific Corporation, increase beyond current estimates; • we decide to expand faster than currently planned; • we develop new or enhanced services or products ahead of schedule; • we decide to undertake new sales and/or marketing initiatives; • we are required to defend or enforce our intellectual property rights, or respond to other legal challenges with respect to our products, including product liability claims; • sales of our products do not meet our expectations domestically or internationally, including sales of our BIS Sensors; 20 Table of Contents • we are required or elect to pay the principal under our notes in cash at or prior to maturity or we determine to repurchase any portion of our notes; • we experience unexpected losses in our cash investments or are otherwise unable to liquidate these investments due to unfavorable conditions in the capital markets; • we need to respond to competitive pressures; or • we decide to acquire complementary products, businesses or technologies. The current economic crisis has severely diminished the availability of capital. While we have no immediate need to access the equity or credit markets, the current economic crisis may limit our ability to access these markets to obtain financing in the future. The cost and terms of such future financing is unclear and we can provide no assurance that we will be able to raise additional funds on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If future financing is not available or is not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to fund our future operations which would significantly limit our ability to implement our business plan and could result in a default under our 2.5% convertible senior notes due 2014. In addition, we may have to issue equity securities that may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock or issue debt securities that may contain limitations or restrictions on our ability to engage in certain transactions in the future. Cases of awareness with recall during monitoring with the BIS system could limit market acceptance of the BIS system and could expose us to product liability claims. Clinicians have reported to us cases of possible awareness with recall during surgical procedures monitored with the BIS system. In most of the cases that were reported to us, when BIS index values were recorded at the time of awareness, high BIS index values were noted, indicating that the BIS index correctly identified the increased risk of awareness with recall in these patients. However, in a small number of these reported cases, awareness with recall may not have been detected by monitoring with the BIS system. We have not systematically solicited reports of awareness with recall. It is possible that additional cases of awareness with recall during surgical procedures monitored with the BIS system have not been reported to us. Anesthesia providers and hospitals may elect not to purchase and use the BIS system if there is adverse publicity resulting from the report of cases of awareness with recall that were not detected during procedures monitored with the BIS system. If anesthesia providers and hospitals do not purchase and use the BIS system, then we may not sustain or grow our product revenue. Although our multi-center, multinational clinical studies have demonstrated that the use of BIS monitoring to help guide anesthetic administration may be associated with the reduction of the incidence of awareness with recall in adults using general anesthesia and sedation, we may be subject to product liability claims for cases of awareness with recall during surgical procedures monitored with the BIS system. Any of these claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. We may not be able to compete with new products or alternative techniques developed by others, which could impair our ability to remain competitive and achieve future growth. The medical device industry in which we market our products is characterized by rapid product development and technological advances. Our competitors have received clearance by the FDA, for, and have introduced commercially, anesthesia monitoring products. If we do not compete effectively with these monitoring products, our revenue could be adversely affected. Our current and planned products are at risk of obsolescence from: • other new monitoring products, based on new or improved technologies; • new products or technologies used on patients or in the operating room during surgery in lieu of monitoring devices; • electrical or mechanical interference from new or existing products or technologies; • alternative techniques for evaluating the effects of anesthesia; • significant changes in the methods of delivering anesthesia; and • the development of new anesthetic agents. 21 Table of Contents We may not be able to improve our products or develop new products or technologies quickly enough to maintain a competitive position in our markets and to grow our business. If we do not maintain our relationships with the anesthesia community and if anesthesiologists and other healthcare providers do not recommend and endorse our products, our sales may decline or we may be unable to increase our sales and profits. Physicians typically influence the medical device purchasing decisions of the hospitals and other healthcare institutions in which they practice. Consequently, our relationships with anesthesiologists are critical to our growth. We believe that these relationships are based on the quality of our products, our long-standing commitment to the consciousness monitoring market, our marketing efforts and our presence at medical society and trade association meetings. Any actual or perceived diminution in our reputation or the quality of our products, or our failure or inability to maintain our commitment to the consciousness monitoring market and our other marketing and product promotion efforts could damage our current relationships, or prevent us from forming new relationships, with anesthesiologists and other anesthesia professionals and cause our growth to be limited or decline and our business to be harmed. In order for us to sell our products, anesthesia professionals must recommend and endorse them. We may not obtain the necessary recommendations or endorsements from this community. Acceptance of our products depends on educating the medical community as to the distinctive characteristics, perceived benefits, safety, clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of our products compared to traditional methods of consciousness monitoring and the products of our competitors, and on training healthcare professionals in the proper application of our products. For example, we believe that the publication in March 2008 of a study in the New England Journal of Medicine that concluded that no benefit of BIS monitoring was demonstrated when compared to an alternative protocol for consciousness monitoring has adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, market perceptions of the benefits of our BIS monitoring products and, accordingly, the degree to which anesthesia professionals and other healthcare providers endorse those products. If we are not successful in obtaining and maintaining the recommendations or endorsements of anesthesiologists and other healthcare professionals for our products, our sales may decline or we may be unable to increase our sales and profits. Negative publicity or unfavorable media coverage could damage our reputation and harm our operations. Certain companies that manufacture medical devices have received significant negative publicity in the past when their products did not perform as the medical community or patients expected. This publicity, and the perception such products may not have functioned properly, may result in increased litigation, including large jury awards, legislative activity, increased regulation and governmental review of company and industry practices. If we were to receive such negative publicity or unfavorable media attention, whether warranted or unwarranted, our reputation would suffer, our ability to market our products would be adversely affected, we may be required to change our products and become subject to increased regulatory burdens and we may be required to pay large judgments or fines. Any combination of these factors could further increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. A third party study published in March 2008 in the New England Journal of Medicine compared BIS monitoring with a protocol based on end-tidal gas anesthetic in a patient population considered to be at high risk of awareness and concluded that, based upon a similar occurrence of awareness in both groups, no benefit of BIS monitoring was demonstrated. We believe that the publication of this study has had, and may continue to have an adverse effect on the rate at which existing or potential new customers purchase and use our products. If we do not successfully develop or acquire and introduce enhanced or new products we could lose revenue opportunities and customers. Our success in developing or acquiring and commercializing new products and enhancements of current products is affected by our ability to: • identify and respond, in a timely manner, to new market trends or opportunities; 22 Table of Contents • assess customer needs; • successfully develop or acquire competitive products; • complete regulatory clearance in a timely manner; • successfully develop cost effective manufacturing processes; • introduce such products to our customers in a timely manner; and • achieve market acceptance of the BIS system. If we are unable to continue to develop or acquire and market new products and technologies, we may experience a decrease in demand for our products, and a loss of market share and our business would suffer. We depend on our BIS system for substantially all our revenue, and we have no other significant products. As the market for our BIS system matures, we need to develop or acquire and introduce new products for anesthesia monitoring or other applications. Additionally, we have been researching the use of BIS monitoring to diagnose, track and manage neurological diseases, including Alzheimer’s disease and depression. We face at least the following two risks with respect to our planned development of new products and our entrance into potential new markets: • we may not successfully adapt the BIS system to function properly for procedural sedation, when used with anesthetics we have not tested or with patient populations we have not studied, such as infants; and • our technology is complex, and we may not be able to develop it further for applications outside anesthesia monitoring, such as the diagnosis and tracking of neurological diseases. We are focused on the market for brain monitoring products. The projected demand for our products could materially differ from actual demand if our assumptions regarding this market and its trends and acceptance of our products by the medical community prove to be incorrect or do not materialize or if other products or technologies gain more widespread acceptance, which in each case would adversely affect our business prospects and profitability. If we do not successfully adapt the BIS system for new products and applications both within and outside the field of anesthesia monitoring, or if such products and applications are developed but not successfully commercialized, then we could lose revenue opportunities and customers. If our clinical trials are delayed or unsuccessful, our business could be adversely affected. Clinical trials require sufficient patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. Delays in patient enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times. We cannot predict whether we will encounter problems with respect to any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend our clinical trials or delay the analysis of data from our completed or ongoing clinical trials. Moreover, the final results of our clinical trials may not support or confirm any preliminary or interim results and we may not successfully reach the endpoints in these trials. Even if we successfully complete our clinical trials, the FDA or other regulatory agencies may not accept the results. Any of the following could delay the completion of our ongoing and planned clinical trials, or result in a failure of these trials to support our business: • delays or the inability to obtain required approvals from institutional review boards or other governing entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials; • delays in enrolling patients and volunteers into clinical trials; • lower than anticipated retention rates of patients and volunteers in clinical trials; • negative results from clinical trials for any of our potential products, including those involving the management of depression and the early diagnosis and tracking of Alzheimer’s disease; and • failure of our clinical trials to demonstrate the efficacy or clinical utility of our potential products. 23 Table of Contents If we determine that the costs associated with attaining regulatory approval of a product exceed the potential financial benefits or if the projected development timeline is inconsistent with our determination of when we need to get the product to market, we may choose to stop a clinical trial and/or development of a product. If we do not develop and implement a successful sales and marketing strategy, we will not expand our business. In the past, we have experienced high turnover in our direct sales force. It is possible that high turnover may occur in the future. If new sales representatives do not acquire the technological skills to sell our products in a timely and successful manner or we experience high turnover in our direct sales force, we may not be able to sustain and grow our product revenue. In addition, in order to increase our sales, we need to continue to strengthen our relationships with our international distributors and continue to add international distributors. Also, we need to continue to strengthen our relationships with our original equipment manufacturers and other sales channels and increase sales through these channels. On an ongoing basis, we need to develop and introduce new sales and marketing programs and clinical education programs to promote the use of the BIS system by our customers. We have shifted the focus of our sales and marketing emphasis from expanding our customer base to deepening our relationships with our existing customers and increasing their sensor utilization and procedure penetration. If we do not implement these new sales and marketing and education programs in a timely and successful manner, we may not be able to achieve the level of market awareness and sales required to expand our business. We have only limited sales and marketing experience both in the United States and internationally and may not be successful in developing and implementing our strategy. Among other things, we need to: • provide or assure that distributors and original equipment manufacturers provide the technical and educational support customers need to use the BIS system successfully; • promote frequent use of the BIS system so that sales of our disposable BIS Sensors increase; • establish and implement successful sales and marketing and education programs that encourage our customers to purchase our products or the products that are made by original equipment manufacturers incorporating our technology; • manage geographically dispersed operations; and • modify our products and marketing and sales programs for foreign markets. We encourage our direct sales force, distributors and original equipment manufacturers to maximize the amount of our products they sell and they may engage in aggressive sales practices that may harm our reputation. We sell our products through a combination of a direct sales force, third party distributors and original equipment manufacturers. As a means to incentivize the sales force, distributors and original equipment manufacturers, the compensation we pay increases with the amount of our products they sell. For example, the compensation paid to the members of our direct sales force consists, in part, of commissions and, the greater the amount of sales, the higher the commission we pay. The participants in our sales channels may engage in sales practices that are aggressive or considered to be inappropriate by existing or potential customers. In addition, we do not exercise control over, and may not be able to provide sufficient oversight of, the sales practices and techniques used by third party distributors and original equipment manufacturers. Negative public opinion resulting from these sales practices can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and could expose us to litigation. Our third-party distribution and original equipment manufacturer relationships could negatively affect our profitability, cause sales of our products to decline and be difficult to terminate if we are dissatisfied. Sales through distributors could be less profitable than direct sales. Sales of our products through multiple channels could also confuse customers and cause the sale of our products to decline. We do not control our original equipment manufacturers and distribution partners. Our partners could sell competing products, may not 24 Table of Contents incorporate our technology into their products in a timely manner and may devote insufficient sales efforts to our products. In addition, our partners are generally not required to purchase minimum quantities. As a result, even if we are dissatisfied with the performance of our partners, we may be unable to terminate our agreements with these partners or enter into alternative arrangements. We may not be able to generate enough additional revenue from our international expansion to offset the costs associated with establishing and maintaining foreign operations. A component of our growth strategy is to expand our presence in international markets. We conduct international business primarily in Europe and Japan, and we are attempting to increase the number of countries in which we do business. It is costly to establish international facilities and operations and to promote the BIS system in international markets. We have encountered barriers to the sale of our BIS system outside the United States, including less acceptance by anesthesia providers for use of disposable products, such as BIS Sensors, delays in regulatory approvals outside of the United States, particularly in Japan, and difficulties selling through indirect sales channels. In addition, we have little experience in marketing and distributing products in international markets. Revenue from international activities may not offset the expense of establishing and maintaining these international operations. We may not be able to meet the unique operational, legal and financial challenges that we encounter in our international operations, which may limit the growth of our business. We are increasingly subject to a number of challenges which specifically relate to our international business activities. These challenges include: • failure of local laws to provide adequate protection against infringement of our intellectual property; • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors, which could slow or prohibit our growth in international markets; • difficulties in terminating or modifying distributor arrangements because of restrictions in markets outside the United States; • less acceptance by foreign anesthesia providers of the use of disposable products, such as BIS Sensors; • delays in regulatory approval of our products; • currency conversion issues arising from sales denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • longer sales cycles to sell products like the BIS system to hospitals and outpatient surgical centers, which could slow our revenue growth from international sales; and • longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable. If we are unable to meet and overcome these challenges, our international operations may not be successful, which would limit the growth of our business and could adversely impact our results of operations. We may experience customer dissatisfaction and our reputation could suffer if we fail to manufacture enough products to meet our customers’ demands. We rely on third-party manufacturers to assemble and manufacture the components of our BIS monitors, original equipment manufacturer products and a portion of our BIS Sensors. We manufacture substantially all BIS Sensors in our own manufacturing facility. We have only one manufacturing facility. If we fail to produce enough products at our own manufacturing facility or at a third-party manufacturing facility for any reason, including damage or destruction of the facility, or experience a termination or modification of any manufacturing arrangement with a third party, we may be unable to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis. Even if we are able to identify alternative facilities to manufacture our products, if necessary, we may experience disruption in the supply of our products until such facilities are available. Although we believe we possess adequate insurance for damage to 25 Table of Contents our property and the disruption of our business from casualties, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Additionally, failure to deliver products on a timely basis could lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. Our reliance on sole-source suppliers could adversely affect our ability to meet our customers’ demands for our products in a timely manner or within budget. Some of the components that are necessary for the assembly of our BIS system, including some of the components used in our BIS Sensors, are currently provided to us by sole-source suppliers or a limited group of suppliers. We purchase components through purchase orders, and in select cases, long-term supply agreements, and generally do not maintain large volumes of inventory. We have experienced shortages and delays in obtaining some of the components of our BIS systems in the past, and we may experience similar shortages or delays in the future. The disruption or termination of the supply of components could cause a significant increase in the costs of these components, which could affect our profitability. A disruption or termination in the supply of components could also result in our inability to meet demand for our products, which could lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. If a supplier is no longer willing or able to manufacture components that we purchase and integrate into the BIS system, we may attempt to design replacement components ourselves that would be compatible with our existing technology. In doing so, we would incur additional research and development expenses, and there can be no assurance that we would be successful in designing or manufacturing any replacement components. Furthermore, if we are required to change the manufacturer of a key component of the BIS system, we may be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. The delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer could delay our ability to manufacture BIS system products in a timely manner or within budget. We may be required to bring litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which may result in substantial expense and may divert our attention from the implementation of our business strategy. We believe that the success of our business depends, in part, on obtaining patent protection for our products, defending our patents once obtained and preserving our trade secrets. We rely on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures and patent, trademark and trade secret laws to protect the proprietary aspects of our technology. These legal measures afford only limited protection, and competitors may gain access to our intellectual property and proprietary information. Any patents we have obtained or will obtain in the future might also be invalidated or circumvented by third parties. Our pending patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not provide commercially meaningful protection, as competitors may be able to design around our patents or produce alternative, non-infringing designs. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. Any litigation could result in substantial expense and diversion of our attention from the business and may not be adequate to protect our intellectual property rights. We may be sued by third parties which claim that our products infringe on their intellectual property rights, particularly because there is substantial uncertainty about the validity and breadth of medical device patents. We may be subject to litigation by third parties based on claims that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that the validity and breadth of claims covered in medical technology patents involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles are unresolved. Any litigation or claims against us, whether or not valid, could result in substantial costs, could place a significant strain on our financial resources and could harm our reputation. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following: • cease selling, incorporating or using any of our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, which would adversely affect our revenue; • obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and • redesign our products, which may be costly, time-consuming and may not be successful. 26 Table of Contents We could be exposed to significant product liability claims which could divert management attention and adversely affect our cash balances, our ability to obtain and maintain insurance coverage at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts and our reputation. The manufacture and sale of our products expose us to product liability claims and product recalls, including those which may arise from misuse or malfunction of, or design flaws in, our products or use of our products with components or systems not manufactured or sold by us. There may be increased risk of misuse of our products if persons not skilled in consciousness monitoring attempt to use our BIS monitoring products. Product liability claims or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. We currently maintain product liability insurance; however, it may not cover the costs of any product liability claims made against us. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts. In addition, publicity pertaining to the misuse or malfunction of, or design flaws in, our products could impair our ability to successfully market and sell our products and could lead to product recalls. Several class action lawsuits have been filed against the underwriters of our initial public offering which may result in negative publicity and potential litigation against us that would be costly to defend and the outcome of which is uncertain and may harm our business. The underwriters of our initial public offering are named as defendants in several class action complaints which have been filed allegedly on behalf of certain persons who purchased shares of our common stock between January 28, 2000 and December 6, 2000. These complaints allege violations of the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act. Primarily they allege that there was undisclosed compensation received by our underwriters in connection with our initial public offering. While we and our officers and directors have not been named as defendants in these suits, based on comparable lawsuits filed against other companies, there can be no assurance that we and our officers and directors will not be named in similar complaints in the future. In addition, the underwriters may assert that we are liable for some or all of any liability that they are found to have to the plaintiffs, pursuant to the indemnification provisions of the underwriting agreement we entered into as part of the initial public offering, or otherwise. We can provide no assurance as to the outcome of these complaints or any potential suit against us or our officers and directors. Any conclusion of these matters in a manner adverse to us could have a material adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations. In addition, the costs to us of defending any litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Such litigation could also substantially divert the attention of our management and our resources in general. Even if we are not named as defendants in these lawsuits, we may also be required to incur significant costs and our management may be distracted by being required to provide information, documents or testimony in connection with the actions against our underwriters. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation or other proceedings and the negative publicity associated with this litigation could harm our ability to compete in the marketplace. We and Boston Scientific jointly terminated our strategic alliance and other agreements and, as a result, we may not have sufficient funding to finance our neuroscience programs. On June 11, 2007, we and Boston Scientific Corporation entered into a termination and repurchase agreement under which we jointly agreed to terminate the following agreements between the parties: • the original equipment manufacturer product development agreement dated as of August 7, 2002, pursuant to which we were seeking to develop certain products that Boston Scientific Corporation would then commercialize in the area of monitoring patients under sedation in a range of less invasive medical specialties, and pursuant to which we granted Boston Scientific Corporation an exclusive option to become the distributor for a period of time of certain of our products; • the product development and distribution agreement dated as of May 23, 2005, pursuant to which we were seeking to develop new applications of its brain-monitoring technology in the area of the diagnosis and treatment of neurological, psychiatric and pain disorders and Boston Scientific Corporation was appointed the exclusive distributor of such products. Under this agreement, which we refer to as the neuroscience 27 Table of Contents alliance, Boston Scientific Corporation had agreed to provide $25.0 million of funding over a five year period. We received $10.0 million under this agreement; and • the letter agreement dated August 7, 2002, and the security agreement dated August 7, 2002, pursuant to which Boston Scientific Corporation agreed to make revolving interest-bearing loans to us from time to time at our request, such revolving loans being evidenced by a promissory note in the original principal amount of $5,000,000 dated August 7, 2002 made by us in favor of Boston Scientific Corporation. As a result of the termination of our alliance with Boston Scientific Corporation, we have regained the commercial rights to products subject to the alliance that we previously shared, but we have lost the support that Boston Scientific Corporation would have provided under the alliance to develop and market products for monitoring patients under sedation and for neuroscience applications. Specifically, we will not receive funding and distribution support from Boston Scientific Corporation for these products. Consequently, we may need to find alternative sources of funds, which may not be available, and we may need to develop our own distribution capabilities or use a third-party distributor. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to develop these new products successfully on our own or that we will be able to reach any agreement with a third-party distributor on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We may not reserve amounts adequate to cover product obsolescence, claims and returns, which could result in unanticipated expenses and fluctuations in operating results. Depending on factors such as the timing of our introduction of new products which utilize our BIS technology, as well as warranty claims and product returns, we may need to reserve amounts in excess of those currently reserved for product obsolescence, excess inventory, warranty claims and product returns. These reserves may not be adequate to cover all costs associated with these items. If these reserves are inadequate, we would be required to incur unanticipated expenses which could result in unexpected fluctuations in quarterly operating results. We may not be able to compete effectively, which could result in price reductions and decreased demand for our products. We are facing increased competition in the domestic level of consciousness monitoring market as a result of a number of competitors’ monitoring systems which have been cleared for marketing by the FDA. These products are marketed by well-established medical products companies with significant resources. We may not be able to compete effectively with these and other potential competitors. We may also face substantial competition from companies which may develop sensor products that compete with our proprietary BIS Sensors for use with our BIS monitors or with third-party monitoring systems or anesthesia delivery systems that incorporate the BIS index. We also expect to face competition from companies currently marketing conventional electroencephalogram, or EEG, monitors using standard and novel signal-processing techniques. Other companies may develop anesthesia-monitoring systems that perform better than the BIS system and/or sell for less. In addition, one or more of our competitors may develop products that are substantially equivalent to our FDA-approved products, in which case they may be able to use our products as predicate devices to more quickly obtain FDA approval of their competing products. Medical device companies developing these and other competitive products may have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Competition in the sale of anesthesia-monitoring systems could result in price reductions, fewer orders, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. We are seeking to develop new products and technologies in the areas of depression and Alzheimer’s disease. If we are not successful in developing new products or technologies, or if we experience delays in development or release of such products, we may not be able to compete successfully. Our ability to market and sell our products and generate revenue depends upon receipt of domestic and foreign regulatory approval of our products and manufacturing operations. Our products are classified as medical devices and are subject to extensive regulation in the United Sates by the FDA and other federal, state, and local authorities. These regulations relate to the manufacturing, labeling, sale, 28 Table of Contents promotion, distribution, importing, exporting and shipping of our products. Before we can market new products or a new use of, or claim for, an existing product in the United States, we must obtain clearance or approval from the FDA. If the FDA concludes that any of our products do not meet the requirements to obtain clearance of a premarket notification under Section 510(k) of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, then we would be required to file a premarket approval application. For example, there can be no guarantee that the FDA will accept the results from our depression clinical trial as supportive of a 510(k) notification without requiring additional studies and/or a premarket approval application. Both of these processes can be lengthy, expensive, may require extensive data from preclinical studies and clinical trials and may require significant user fees. The premarket approval process typically is more burdensome, expensive, time-consuming and uncertain than the premarket notification process. We may not obtain clearance of a 510(k) notification or approval of a premarket approval application with respect to any of our products on a timely basis, if at all. If we fail to obtain timely clearance or approval for our products, we will not be able to market and sell our products, which will limit our ability to generate revenue. We may also be required to obtain clearance of a 510(k) notification from the FDA before we can market certain previously marketed products which we modify after they have been cleared. We have made certain enhancements to our currently marketed products which we have determined do not necessitate the filing of a new 510(k) notification. However, if the FDA does not agree with our determinations, it will require us to file a new 510(k) notification for the modification, and we may be prohibited from marketing the modified devices until we obtain FDA clearance, or be required to recall devices that may be on the market, or be subject to other sanctions. Medical devices may be marketed only for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. The FDA may fail to approve or clear indications that are necessary or desirable for successful commercialization of our products. The FDA also may refuse our request for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products, new intended uses, or modification to products once they are approved or cleared. Our approvals or clearance can be revoked if safety or effectiveness problems develop. Our promotional materials and training methods must comply with the FDA and other applicable laws and regulations. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitute promotion of an unapproved use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil monetary penalties, or criminal prosecution. It also is possible that other federal, state, or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. In that event, our reputation could be damaged, adoption of the products could be impaired, and we might not be able to promote the products for certain uses for which we had expected to promote them. The FDA also requires us to adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practices regulations, also known as the Quality System Regulation, or QSR, in the case of medical devices, which include production controls, design controls, testing, quality control, documentation procedures, verification and validation of the design and of the production process, purchasing controls for materials and components, implementation of corrective and preventive actions, and servicing, among other requirements. The FDA may at any time inspect our facilities to determine whether adequate compliance with QSR requirements has been achieved. Compliance with the QSR regulations for medical devices is difficult and costly. In addition, we may not continue to be compliant as a result of future changes in, or interpretations of, regulations by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. If we do not achieve continued compliance, the FDA may issue a warning letter, withdraw marketing clearance, require product recall, seize products, seek an injunction or consent decree, or seek criminal prosecution, among other possible remedies. When any change or modification is made to a device or its intended use, the manufacturer may be required to reassess compliance with the QSR regulations, which may cause interruptions or delays in the marketing and sale of our products. Sales of our products outside the United States are subject to foreign regulatory requirements that vary from country to country. The time required to obtain approvals from foreign countries may be longer than that required for FDA approval, and requirements for foreign licensing may differ from FDA requirements. 29 Table of Contents The federal, state and foreign laws and regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to future changes, as are administrative interpretations of regulatory agencies. If we fail to comply with applicable federal, state or foreign laws or regulations, we could be subject to enforcement actions, including product seizures, recalls, withdrawal of clearances or approvals and civil and criminal penalties. All of our manufacturing activities are performed at a single site and any disaster at this site could disrupt our ability to manufacture our products for a substantial length of time, which could cause our revenues to decrease. We assemble all of our BIS hardware and produce all of our BIS Sensors in one facility in Norwood, Massachusetts. Despite precautions we take, events such as fire, flood, power loss or other disasters at this facility could significantly impair our ability to manufacture our products and operate our business. Our facility and certain manufacturing equipment located in that facility would be difficult to replace and could require substantial replacement lead-time. Catastrophic events may also destroy any inventory of product or components located in our facility. While we carry insurance for natural disasters and business interruption, the occurrence of such an event could result in losses that exceed the amount of this insurance coverage, which would impair our financial results. Even if we obtain the necessary FDA clearances or approvals, if we or our suppliers fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements our products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. We are subject to the Medical Device Reporting, or MDR, regulations that require us to report to the FDA if our products may have caused or contributed to patient death or serious injury, or if our device malfunctions and a recurrence of the malfunction would likely result in a death or serious injury. We must also file reports of device corrections and removals and adhere to the FDA’s rules on labeling and promotion. Our failure to comply with these or other applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any of the following: • untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions and civil penalties; • administrative detention, which is the detention by the FDA of medical devices believed to be adulterated or misbranded; • customer notification, or orders for repair, replacement or refund; • voluntary or mandatory recall or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • refusal to review pre-market notification or pre-market approval submissions; • rescission of a substantial equivalence order or suspension or withdrawal of a pre-market approval; and • criminal prosecution. Any of the foregoing actions by the FDA could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may be subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations and, if we are unable to fully comply with such laws, could face substantial penalties. Our operations may be directly or indirectly affected by various state and federal healthcare fraud and abuse laws, including the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits any person from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for an item or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of these laws, we or our officers may be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including large monetary penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment and exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid program participation. If enforcement action were to occur, our business and financial condition would be harmed. 30 Table of Contents If we do not retain our senior management and other key employees, we may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy. Our president and chief executive officer, Nassib Chamoun, joined us at our inception in 1987. Our chairman, J. Breckenridge Eagle, began serving as a director in 1988. Many other members of our management and key employees have extensive experience with us and other companies in the medical device industry. Our success is substantially dependent on the ability, experience and performance of these members of our senior management and other key employees. Because of their ability and experience, if we lose one or more of the members of our senior management or other key employees, our ability to successfully implement our business strategy could be seriously harmed. We compensate our executive officers in part with equity incentives, including stock options. A significant portion of the stock options held by our senior management and employees have exercise prices below the fair market value of our common stock. If we do not attract and retain skilled personnel, or if we do not maintain good relationships with our employees, we will not be able to expand our business. Our products are based on complex signal-processing technology. Accordingly, we require skilled personnel to develop, manufacture, sell and support our products. Our future success will depend largely on our ability to continue to hire, train, retain and motivate additional skilled personnel, particularly sales representatives who are responsible for customer education and training and post-installation customer support. In order to hire and train skilled personnel, we believe that we will need to provide compensation arrangements, including incentive-based programs, that are competitive with programs offered by comparable medical device companies. Various factors may prevent us from implementing or maintaining such programs, including business and general market conditions and fluctuations in our stock price. If we are not able to attract and retain skilled personnel, we will not be able to manage and expand our business. In addition, we may be subject to claims that we engage in discriminatory or other unlawful practices with respect to our hiring, termination, promotion and compensation processes for our employees. Such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, distracting and expensive to defend, could divert attention of our management from other tasks important to the success of our business and could adversely affect our reputation as an employer. If we make any acquisitions, we will incur a variety of costs and may never successfully integrate the acquired business into ours. We may attempt to acquire businesses, technologies, services or products that we believe are a strategic complement to our business. We may encounter operating difficulties and expenditures relating to integrating an acquired business, technology, service or product. These acquisitions may also absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. Moreover, we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. We may also make dilutive issuances of equity securities, incur debt or experience a decrease in the cash available for our operations, or incur contingent liabilities in connection with any future acquisitions, all of which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our employees may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including insider trading. We are exposed to the risk that employee fraud or other misconduct could occur. Misconduct by employees could include failures to comply with FDA regulations, to provide accurate information to the FDA, to comply with manufacturing standards we have established, to comply with federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations, to accurately report financial information or data or to disclose unauthorized activities to us. Employee misconduct could also involve improper sales tactics or use of customer information or information obtained in the course of clinical trials, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. We have adopted a written code of business conduct and ethics, but it is not always possible to identify and deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses. 31 Table of Contents In addition, during the course of our operations, our directors, executives and employees may have access to material, non-public information regarding our business, our results of operations or potential transactions we are considering. Despite our adoption of an Insider Trading Policy, we may not be able to prevent a director or employee from trading in our common stock on the basis of, or while in possession of, material, non-public information. If a director or employee was to be investigated, or an action was to be brought against a director or employee, for insider trading, it could have a negative impact on our reputation and our stock price. Such a claim, with or without merit, could also result in substantial expenditures of time and money, and divert attention of our management team from other tasks important to the success of our business. Failure of users of the BIS system, or users of future products we may develop, to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payors could limit market acceptance of the BIS system and other products, which could prevent us from sustaining profitability. Anesthesia providers are generally not reimbursed separately for patient monitoring activities utilizing the BIS system. For hospitals and outpatient surgical centers, when reimbursement is based on charges or costs, patient monitoring with the BIS system may reduce reimbursements for surgical procedures, because charges or costs may decline as a result of monitoring with the BIS system. Failure by hospitals and other users of the BIS system to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payors, or any reduction in the reimbursement by third-party payors to hospitals and other users as a result of using the BIS system, could limit market acceptance of the BIS system, which could prevent us from sustaining profitability. In addition, market acceptance of future products serving the depression and Alzheimer’s disease markets could depend upon adequate reimbursement from third-party payors. The ability and willingness of third-party payors to authorize coverage and sufficient reimbursement to compensate and encourage physicians to use such products is uncertain. The market price of our stock is highly volatile. This volatility could cause your investment in our stock to suffer a decline in value. The market price of our stock is highly volatile. For example, from January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008, the price of our common stock has ranged from a high of $14.25 to a low of $2.50. As a result of this volatility, your investment in our stock could rapidly lose its value. Our stock price could fluctuate for many reasons, including without limitation: • variations in our quarterly operating results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; • third-party sales of large blocks of our common stock; • rumors relating to us or our competitors; • changes to our research and development plans and/or announcements regarding new technologies by us or our competitors; • adverse results in clinical trials of our BIS monitoring system products and products under development; • negative publicity or unfavorable media coverage; • lawsuits involving us; • sales by us of equity or debt to fund our operations; • the loss of any of our key scientific or management personnel; • FDA or international regulatory actions or lawsuits concerning the safety of our products; and • market conditions, both in the medical device sector and generally. In addition, the stock markets in general have been extremely volatile, and have experienced fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies whose stock is trading. 32 Table of Contents These broad market fluctuations could result in extreme fluctuations in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of our shares. Transactions engaged in by our largest stockholders, our directors or executives involving our common stock may have an adverse effect on the price of our stock. Sales of our shares by our largest stockholders could have the effect of lowering our stock price. The perceived risk associated with the possible sale of a large number of shares by these stockholders, or the adoption of significant short positions by hedge funds or other significant investors, could cause some of our stockholders to sell their stock, thus causing the price of our stock to decline. In addition, actual or anticipated downward pressure on our stock price due to actual or anticipated sales of stock by directors or officers of Aspect could cause other institutions or individuals to engage in short sales of our common stock, which may further cause the price of our stock to decline. From time to time our directors and executive officers sell shares of our common stock on the open market. These sales are publicly disclosed in filings made with the SEC. In the future, our directors and executive officers may sell a significant number of shares for a variety of reasons unrelated to the performance of our business. Our stockholders may perceive these sales as a reflection on management’s view of the business and result in some stockholders selling their shares of our common stock. These sales could cause the price of our stock to drop. We have various mechanisms in place to discourage takeover attempts, which may reduce or eliminate our stockholders’ ability to sell their shares for a premium in a change of control transaction. Various provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and of Delaware corporate law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or takeover attempt of our company by a third party that is opposed by our management and board of directors. Public stockholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have the opportunity to do so. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change of control or change in our management and board of directors. These provisions include: • preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or to discourage a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock; • classification of our directors into three classes with respect to the time for which they hold office; • non-cumulative voting for directors; • control by our board of directors of the size of our board of directors; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • inability of our stockholders to take any action by written consent; and • advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by our stockholders at stockholder meetings. Risks Related to our Issuance of $125.0 Million Principal Amount of 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes due 2014 Our increased indebtedness as a result of the issuance of $125.0 million principal amount of 2.5% convertible senior notes, or the notes, may harm our financial condition and results of operations. In June 2007, we issued $125.0 million principal amount of 2.5% convertible senior notes due 2014. At February 28, 2009, $58.0 million principal amount remained outstanding. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to investors, because: • it could adversely affect our ability to satisfy our obligations under the notes; • a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will have to be dedicated to interest payments, principal payments and, if we irrevocably elect to net share settle the notes, conversion payments and may 33 Table of Contents not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; • it may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; • it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and • it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general. Our operations may not generate sufficient cash to enable us to service our debt. If we fail to make a payment on the notes, we could be in default on the notes, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other indebtedness outstanding at that time. Conversely, a default on our other outstanding indebtedness may cause a default under the notes. We may not have the cash necessary to pay interest on the notes, to settle conversions of the notes (if we have obtained stockholder approval to elect net share settlement of the notes, and we irrevocably elect such settlement method) or to repurchase the notes upon a fundamental change. The notes bear interest semi-annually at a rate of 2.5% per annum. In addition, we may in certain circumstances be obligated to pay additional interest. If at any time on or prior to the 45th scheduled trading day preceding the maturity date of the notes we obtain stockholder approval of the net share settlement feature in connection with the potential conversion of the notes, and if we irrevocably elect to use such feature, then upon conversion of the notes we would: • pay cash in an amount equal to the lesser of one-fortieth of the principal amount of the notes being converted and the daily conversion value (the product of the conversion rate and the current trading price) of the notes being converted; and • issue shares of our common stock only to the extent that the daily conversion value of the notes exceeded one-fortieth of the principal amount of the notes being converted for each trading day of the relevant 40 trading day observation period. Holders of notes also have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes for cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change. Any of our future debt agreements or securities may contain similar provisions. We may not have sufficient funds to pay interest, pay any such cash amounts to the note holders upon conversion or make the required repurchase of the notes at the applicable time and, in such circumstances, may not be able to arrange the necessary financing on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, our ability to pay interest, pay cash to the note holders upon conversion or make the required repurchase, as the case may be, may be limited by law or the terms of other debt agreements or securities. Our failure to pay such cash amounts to holders of notes or make the required repurchase, as the case may be, however, would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the notes which, in turn, could constitute an event of default under other debt agreements or securities, thereby resulting in their acceleration and required prepayment and further restrict our ability to make such payments and repurchases. The net share settlement feature of the notes, if available, may have adverse consequences. Under the terms of the indenture for the notes, if we obtain stockholder approval, we could elect net share settlement of the notes. To date, we have not sought such approval. The net share settlement feature of the notes may: • result in holders receiving no shares of our common stock upon conversion or fewer shares of our common stock relative to the conversion value of the notes; • reduce our liquidity because we will be required to pay the principal portion in cash; • delay holders’ receipt of the proceeds upon conversion; and • subject holders to market risk before receiving any shares upon conversion. 34 Table of Contents If we obtain stockholder approval of the net share settlement feature in connection with the potential conversion of the notes, and if we irrevocably elect to use such feature, then upon conversion of the notes we would (1) pay cash in an amount equal to the lesser of one-fortieth of the principal amount of the notes being converted and the daily conversion value (the product of the conversion rate and the current trading price) of the notes being converted and (2) issue shares of our common stock only to the extent that the daily conversion value of the notes exceeded one-fortieth of the principal amount of the notes being converted for each trading day of the relevant 40 trading day observation period. Because the consideration due upon conversion of notes is based in part on the trading prices of our common stock, any decrease in the price of our common stock after notes are tendered for conversion may significantly decrease the value of the consideration received upon conversion. Furthermore, because under net share settlement we must settle at least a portion of our conversion obligation in cash, the conversion of notes may significantly reduce our liquidity. If we repurchase any portion of our notes, such repurchases could adversely affect the holders of both our notes and our common stock and could also adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. During 2008, we repurchased $60.0 million of the notes for total consideration of $30.4 million, plus accrued interest of $617,000 to the date of repurchase. As a result of these transactions, we have recorded a net gain on debt repurchases of $27.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. In February 2009, we repurchased an additional $7.0 million of the notes for total consideration of approximately $3.8 million, including accrued interest of approximately $28,000, which resulted in a net gain on repurchase of approximately $3.0 million. We may, from time to time, depending on market conditions, including without limitation whether our notes are then trading at discounts to their respective face amounts, repurchase additional outstanding notes for cash and/or in exchange for shares of our common stock, warrants, preferred stock, debt, or other consideration, in each case in open market purchases and/or privately negotiated transactions. The amounts involved in any such transactions, individually or in the aggregate, may be material. In addition, if we exchange shares of our capital stock, or securities convertible into or exercisable for our capital stock, such exchanges could result in material dilution to holders of our common stock. Moreover, any such repurchase could result in a tax liability if made at a discount to the face amount of the notes, and/or could otherwise adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Repurchases of the notes could also adversely affect the trading market for such notes if, for example, the public float on such notes is materially reduced. There can be no assurance that we will repurchase or exchange any additional outstanding notes and even if, in the future, we elect to repurchase a portion of the outstanding notes, any such repurchase may not be successfully completed or, if completed, may not be on terms that are favorable to us or that result in expected benefits for us. Future sales of our common stock in the public market or the issuance of securities senior to our common stock could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and the value of the notes and our ability to raise funds in new securities offerings. Future sales of our common stock, the perception that such sales could occur or the availability for future sale of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock could adversely affect the market prices of our common stock and the value of the notes prevailing from time to time and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. In addition, we may issue common stock or equity securities senior to our common stock in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of options or for other reasons. As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding options to purchase approximately 4,265,000 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $17.02 per share (approximately 776,000 of which have not yet vested) issued to employees, directors and consultants pursuant to our 1991 Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan, 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, Amended and Restated 1998 Director Equity Incentive Plan and 2001 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended. In order to attract and retain key personnel, we may issue additional securities, including stock options, restricted stock grants and shares of common stock, in connection with our employee benefit plans, or may lower the price of existing stock options. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that 35 Table of Contents the sale, or the availability for sale, of substantial amounts of common stock by our existing stockholders pursuant to an effective registration statement or under Rule 144, through the exercise of registration rights or the issuance of shares of common stock upon the exercise of stock options, or the perception that such sales or issuances could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market prices for our common stock and the value of the notes. Conversion of the notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their notes. To the extent we issue any shares of our common stock upon conversion of the notes, the conversion of some or all of the notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders, including holders who have received shares of our common stock upon prior conversion of the notes. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could depress the price or our common stock. Provisions in the indenture for the notes may deter or prevent a business combination that may be favorable to note holders. If a fundamental change occurs prior to the maturity date of the notes, holders of the notes will, have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes. In addition, if a make-whole fundamental change occurs prior to the maturity date of the notes, we will in some cases increase the conversion rate for a holder that elects to convert its notes in connection with such make-whole fundamental change. In addition, the indenture governing the notes prohibits us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the notes. These and other provisions could prevent or deter a third party from acquiring us. The notes may not be rated or may receive a lower rating than anticipated. We do not intend to seek a rating on the notes. However, if one or more rating agencies rates the notes and assigns the notes a rating lower than the rating expected by investors, or reduces or indicates that they may reduce their rating in the future, the market price of the notes and our common stock could be harmed. The effective subordination of the notes to our secured indebtedness to the extent of the collateral securing such indebtedness may limit our ability to satisfy our obligations under the notes. The notes will be our senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with any senior debt and senior to any subordinated debt. However, the notes will be effectively subordinated to our secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the collateral securing such indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, we did not have any secured indebtedness outstanding. The provisions of the indenture governing the notes do not prohibit us from incurring secured indebtedness in the future. Consequently, in the event of a bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or similar proceeding with respect to us, the holders of any secured indebtedness will be entitled to proceed directly against the collateral that secures such secured indebtedness. Therefore, such collateral will not be available for satisfaction of any amounts owed under our unsecured indebtedness, including the notes, until such secured indebtedness is satisfied in full. The structural subordination of the notes to our secured liabilities and all liabilities and preferred equity of our subsidiaries may limit our ability to satisfy our obligations under the notes. The notes will be effectively subordinated to all unsecured and secured liabilities and preferred equity of our subsidiaries. In the event of a bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or similar proceeding with respect to any such subsidiary, we, as a common equity owner of such subsidiary, and, therefore, holders of our debt, including holders of the notes, will be subject to the prior claims of such subsidiary’s creditors, including trade and other payables, but excluding intercompany indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, our subsidiaries had an accounts payable and accrued liabilities balance of approximately $1.5 million. The provisions of the indenture governing the notes do not prohibit our subsidiaries from incurring additional liabilities or issuing preferred equity in the future. 36 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 