Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote PART II Item 5. Market For the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules SIGNATURES PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Franklin Covey Co. (the Company, we, us, our or FranklinCovey) enables greatness in people and organizations everywhere by helping organizations, families and individuals the world over achieve their own great purposes through teaching the principles and practices of effectiveness and by providing reinforcement tools like the FranklinCovey Planning System. Nearly 1,500 FranklinCovey associates world-wide delivered timeless and universal curriculum and effectiveness tools to millions of customers in fiscal 2007. We strive to excel in this endeavor because we believe that: · People are inherently capable, aspire to greatness, and have the power to choose. · Principles are timeless and universal and are the foundation to lasting effectiveness. · Leadership is a choice, built inside-out on a foundation of character. Great leaders unleash the collective talent and passion of people toward the right goal. · Habits of effectiveness come only from the committed use of integrated processes and tools. · Sustained superior performance requires a balance of performance and performance capability (P/PC BalanceÒ) - a focus on achieving results and building capability. The Opportunity Corporations, organizations and individuals cumulatively purchased more than $13 billion(1) in 2007 and it is estimated that they will purchase nearly $15 billion in 2008 of professional performance training curricula, books, tapes, CD’s and other tools in an effort to improve their effectiveness and productivity. The training industry is divided into two segments – information technology training and performance skills training. The performance skills training segment of the industry represented over $7 billion in sales in 2007 and is expected to grow to exceed $8 billion in 2008 through sales of hundreds of different curricula, delivered to both corporations and individual customers. In addition to training, the performance skills industry includes a number of measurement methodologies and integrated implementation tools. The measurement methodologies include return on investment analysis and behavior modification measurement. Implementation tools are designed to increase learning retention and increase behavior modification. Many companies in the industry specialize in only one or two of these areas. (1) Simba Information, Corporate Training Market 2007: Forecast and Analysis. (2007) FranklinCovey is engaged in the performance skills segment of the training industry. Our competitive advantage in this highly fragmented industry stems from our fully integrated training curricula, measurement methodologies and implementation tool offerings to help individuals and organizations measurably improve their effectiveness. This advantage allows FranklinCovey to deliver not only training to both corporations and individuals, but also to implement the training through the use of powerful behavior changing tools with the capability to then measure the impact of the delivered training and tools. In fiscal 2007, we provided products and services to 90 percent of the Fortune 100 companies and more than 75 percent of the Fortune 500 companies. We also provide products and services to a number of U.S. and foreign governmental agencies, including the U.S. Department of Defense, as well as numerous educational institutions. We provide training curricula, measurement services and implementation tools internationally, either through directly operated offices, or through licensed providers. On August 31, 2007, we had direct operations in Australia, Canada, Japan and the United Kingdom. We also had licensed operations in 87 countries and licensed rights in more than 140 countries. Nearly 500,000 individuals world-wide were trained during the fiscal year ended August 31, 2007. Our principal executive offices are located at 2200 West Parkway Boulevard, Salt Lake City, Utah 84119-2331 and our telephone number is (801) 817-1776. FranklinCovey Products An important principle taught in our productivity training is to have a single personal productivity system and to have all of one’s information in that system. Based upon that principle, we developed the FranklinCovey Planning System with the original Franklin Planner as one of the basic tools for implementing the principles of our time management system. The Franklin Planner consists of paper-based FranklinCovey Planning Pages, a binder in which to carry it, weekly, monthly and annual calendars as well as personal management sections. We offer a broad line of renewal planning pages, forms and binders in various sizes and styles. The FranklinCovey Planning System broadened as we developed additional planning tools to address the needs of more technology oriented workers as well as those who require both greater mobility and ready access to large quantities of data. For those clients who use digital or electronic productivity systems, we offer a wide variety of electronic solutions incorporating the same planning methodology. FrankinCovey Planning Pages. Paper planning pages are available for the FranklinCovey Planning System in various sizes and styles and consist of daily or weekly formats, with Appointment Schedules, Prioritized Daily Task Lists, Monthly Calendars, Daily Notes, and personal management pages for an entire year. FranklinCovey Planning Pages are offered in a number of designs to appeal to various customer segments. The Starter Pack, which includes personal management tabs and pages, a guide to using the planner, a pagefinder and weekly compass cards, combined with a storage binder, completes the basic FranklinCovey Planning System. Binders and Totes. To further customize the FranklinCovey Planning System, we offer binders and business cases (briefcases, portfolios, business totes, messenger bags, etc.) in a variety of materials, styles and sizes. These materials include high quality leathers, fabrics, synthetic materials and vinyl in a variety of color and design options. Binder styles include zipper closures, snap closures, and open formats with pocket configurations to accommodate credit cards, business cards, checkbooks, electronic devices and writing instruments. Most of the leather items are proprietary FranklinCovey designs. However, we also offer products from leading manufacturers such as Kenneth Cole. Electronic Solutions. We offer our time and life management methodology in an electronic format within a complete Personal Information Management (PIM) system through the FranklinCovey PlanPlusÔ Software offerings. The software application can be used in conjunction with planning pages, electronic handheld organizers, and smart phones or used as a stand-alone planning and information management system. The FranklinCovey PlanPlusÔ Software permits users to generate and print data on FranklinCovey Planning Pages that can be inserted directly into the FranklinCovey Planner. The program operates in the Windows® 95, 98, 2000, XP and Vista operating systems. The FranklinCovey PlanPlusÔ Software includes all necessary software, related tutorials and reference manuals. FranklinCovey PlanPlusÔ Software is also intended for our corporate clients that have already standardized on MicrosoftÒ for group scheduling, but wish to make the FranklinCovey Planning System available to their employees without creating the need to support two separate systems. As this kind of extension proves its value in the market, the FranklinCovey Planning Software extension model may be expanded to other platforms. FranklinCovey PlanPlusÔ is now also available in a web-based system called PlanPlusÔ Online. This latest offering allows customers to access the FranklinCovey Planning System from any web browser in the world. It also includes nearly all of the planning features found in our desktop software products and some additional features, including sales management tools. The software has both online planning tools and customer relationship management (CRM) tools. This new online offering also allows customers with smart phones to access key information from any smart phone with a web browser, including the iPhone, Treo, Blackberry and Window Mobile devices. We also provide The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People® training course in online and CD-ROM versions. This edition delivers the content from the 3-day classroom workshop in a flexible self-paced version via the Internet or CD-ROM that is available when and where employees need it. The Online Edition is presented in a multi-media format with video segments, voiceovers, a learning journal, interactive exercises, and other techniques. Included with the course is a 360-Degree profile and e-Coaching to help participants gain a broader perspective of their strengths and weaknesses and to help them implement the training to improve their skills. Personal Development and Accessory Products. To supplement our principal products, we offer a number of accessories and related products, including third-party books, videotapes and audio cassettes focused on time management, leadership, personal improvement and other topics. We also market a variety of content–based personal development products. These products include books, audio learning systems such as multi-tape, CDs and workbook sets, CD-ROM software products, calendars and other specialty name brand items. We offer numerous accessory forms through our Forms Wizard software, which allows customization of our more popular forms, including check registers, spreadsheets, stationery, mileage logs, maps, menu planners, shopping lists, and other information management and project planning forms. Our accessory products and forms are generally available in all the FranklinCovey Planner sizes. Books. The principles we teach in our curriculum have also been published in book, audiotape and CD formats. Books to which the Company holds copyrights include The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People®, Principle–Centered Leadership, First Things First, The 7 Habits of Highly Effective Families, Nature of Leadership,Living the 7 Habits, The 8th Habit: From Effectiveness to Greatness, and the latest book, Everyday Greatness, all by Stephen R. Covey; The 10 Natural Laws of Time and Life Management,What Matters Most and The Modern Gladiator by Hyrum W. Smith; The Power Principle by Blaine Lee; The 7 Habits of Highly Effective Teens by Sean Covey; and Business Think by Dave Marcum and Steve Smith. These books, as well as audiotape and CD audio versions of many of these products, and the products mentioned above are sold through general retail channels, as well as through our own catalog, e-commerce Internet site at www.franklincovey.com and retail stores. Training and Consulting Services We offer training and consulting services for organizations through a combination of assessment instruments, including the xQä (Execution QuotientÔ) Profile and the 7 Habits Profile, and training courses including FOCUS: Achieving Your Highest Priorities; The 4 Disciplines of Executionä; The 4 Roles of Leadershipä; and The 7 Habits of Highly Effective PeopleÒ. We measure the impact of training investments for our clients through pre- and post- assessment profiles and return on investment analysis. These services are marketed and delivered world-wide through our Organizational Solutions Business Unit (OSBU), which consists of consultants, selected through a competitive and demanding process, and sales professionals. Training and Education Programs. We offer a range of training programs designed to measurably improve the effectiveness of individuals and organizations. Our programs are oriented to address personal, interpersonal, managerial and organizational needs. In addition, we believe that our learning process provides an engaging and behavior-changing experience, which frequently generates additional business. During fiscal 2007, approximately 500,000 individuals were trained using the Company’s curricula in our single and multiple–day workshops and seminars. We also offer assessment tools to help organizational clients determine the effectiveness of implementing company goals. The xQ Survey is an exclusive FranklinCovey assessment tool that gathers information, from an employee perspective, on how well organizational goals are understood and are being carried out. The survey questions, administered through a Web-based system, probe for details to uncover underlying focus and teamwork barriers or issues. Our single–day FOCUS: Achieving Your Highest Priorities workshop teaches productivity skills integrated with a planning system to help individuals clarify, focus on, and execute their highest priorities, both personally and professionally. This seminar is conducted by our training consultants in corporate and public seminars throughout the United States and in many foreign countries. It is also delivered by our clients’ certified in-house trainers for their employees. The single-day The 4 Disciplines of Execution workshop helps managers identify the highest priorities for their teams and then lead those teams to execute tasks day-after-day. We also deliver multiple-day workshops, primarily in the leadership area. Included in these offerings is the three–day 7 Habits workshop based upon the material presented in The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People®. The 7 Habits workshop provides the foundation for continued client relationships and the content and application tools are designed to be delivered deep into the client’s organization. Additionally, a three–day 4 Roles of Leadership course is offered, which focuses on the managerial aspects of client needs. FranklinCovey Leadership Week consists of a five–day session focused on materials from FranklinCovey's The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People® and The 4 Roles of Leadership courses. FranklinCovey Leadership Week is reserved for supervisory level management of our corporate clients. As a part of the week's agenda, executive participants plan and design strategies to successfully implement key organizational goals or initiatives. In addition to providing consultants and presenters, we also train and certify client facilitators to teach selected FranklinCovey workshops within their organizations. We believe client–facilitated training is important to our fundamental strategy of creating pervasive on-going client impact and revenue streams. After having been certified, client facilitators can purchase manuals, profiles, planners and other products to conduct training workshops within their organization, generally without repeating the sales process. This creates programs which have an on-going impact on our customers and which generate recurring revenues. This is aided by the fact that curriculum content in one course leads the client to additional participation in other Company courses. Since 1988, we have trained more than 20,000 client facilitators. Client facilitators are certified only after graduating from one of our certification workshops and completing post–course certification requirements. We also provide The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People® training course in online and CD-ROM versions. The need for reaching more employees faster and less expensively are the key drivers behind the growth of e-learning in the marketplace. The 7 Habits Online Edition addresses that need, offering a flexible alternative to classroom training. Segment Information To help us fulfill our mission of enabling greatness in people and organizations everywhere, we have organized our business in two segments: (1) the Consumer Solutions Business Unit (CSBU) designed to reach individual consumers and small businesses; and (2) the Organizational Solutions Business Unit (OSBU) designed to serve organizational clients. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the Company's sales from external customers for each of its operating segments (in thousands): 2007 2006 2005 Consumer Solutions Business Unit Retail Stores $ 54,316 $ 62,156 $ 74,331 Consumer Direct 59,790 65,480 62,873 Wholesale 17,991 17,782 17,936 CSBU International 7,342 7,716 7,009 Other 5,565 4,910 3,757 Total CSBU 145,004 158,044 165,906 Organizational Solutions Business Unit Domestic 81,447 71,595 70,572 International 57,674 48,984 47,064 Total OSBU 139,121 120,579 117,636 Total $ 284,125 $ 278,623 $ 283,542 We market products and services to organizations, schools and individuals both domestically and internationally through FranklinCovey retail stores, our consumer direct channel (which includes call center operations, our Internet website at www.franklincovey.com, and public seminar programs), our organizational and educational sales forces and other distribution channels. Our quarterly results of operations reflect seasonal trends that are primarily the result of customers who renew their FranklinCovey Planners on a calendar year basis. Domestic training sales are moderately seasonal because of the timing of corporate training, which is not typically scheduled as heavily during holiday and vacation periods. Additional financial information related to our operating segments, as well as geographical information can be found in the notes to our consolidated financial statements (Note 19). Consumer Solutions Business Unit We sell FranklinCovey products and other productivity tools to individual consumers primarily through our retail stores, through FranklinCovey consumer direct channels, through selected wholesale channels, and through international operations. Retail Stores. Beginning in late 1985, we began a retail strategy by opening retail stores in areas of high client density. The initial stores were generally located in close proximity to corporate clients. We revised our strategy by locating retail stores in high-traffic retail centers, primarily large shopping centers and malls, to serve existing clients and to attract increased numbers of walk-in clients. Our retail stores average approximately 1,900 square feet. Our retail strategy focuses on reinforcing the training experience with high client service and consultative sales of planning tools. We believe this approach ensures longer-term usage and satisfaction with the FranklinCovey Planning System. We believe that our retail stores have an upscale image consistent with our marketing strategy. Products are attractively presented and displayed with an emphasis on integration of related products and accessories. Our retail sales associates have been trained to teach the FranklinCovey Planning System, using the various tools and electronic handheld devices and software we offer, enabling them to assist and advise clients in the selection and use of our products. Retail store employees have also been engaged to proactively market to small businesses in the cities where they are located. Their marketing efforts include calling upon small (fewer than 100 employees) businesses to offer productivity tools and training. This out-bound selling effort has helped to stabilize declining revenues in the retail channel and provided access to FranklinCovey training and products to a business segment not traditionally marketed to through our sales force. At August 31, 2007, FranklinCovey had 87 domestic retail stores located in 33 states. We closed 2 retail stores in the United States during fiscal year 2007. The Company anticipates that it may close additional stores in fiscal year 2008. We also had 4 retail stores located in countries where we maintain direct operations at year-end. Consumer Direct. We sell products and services through catalog call center operations, Internet sales operations and public seminar programs. We periodically mail catalogs to our clients, including a fall catalog, holiday catalogs, spring and summer catalogs timed to coincide with planner renewals. Catalogs may be targeted to specific geographic areas or user groups as appropriate. Catalogs are typically printed in full color with an attractive selling presentation highlighting product benefits and features. We also market the FranklinCovey Planning System through our e-commerce Internet site at www.franklincovey.com. Customers may order catalogs and other marketing materials as well as the Company’s product line through this Internet portal. During fiscal 2001, we entered into a long-term contract with Electronic Data Systems (EDS) of Dallas, Texas, to provide a large part of our customer relationship management in servicing our Consumer Direct customers through our catalog and e-commerce operations. We use EDS to maintain a client service department, which clients may call toll-free, from 6:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. MST, Monday through Friday, to inquire about a product or to place an order. Through a computerized order entry system, client representatives have access to client preferences, prior orders, billings, shipments and other information on a real-time basis. The customer service representatives have authority to immediately solve client service problems. The integrated relationship management system provided by EDS allows orders from our customers to be processed through its warehousing and distribution systems. Client information stored within the order entry system is also used for additional purposes, including target marketing of specific products to existing clients. We believe that the order entry system helps assure client satisfaction through both rapid delivery and accurate order shipment. Public seminars are planned and coordinated with training consultants by a staff of marketing and administrative personnel at our corporate offices. Public seminars are delivered by our training consultants in more than 100 major metropolitan cities throughout the United States. These seminars provide training for organizations and the general public and are also used as a marketing tool for attracting corporate and other institutional clients. Corporate training directors are often invited to attend public seminars to preview the seminar content prior to engaging FranklinCovey to train in-house employees. Smaller institutional clients often enroll their employees in public seminars when a private seminar is not cost effective. Wholesale. We have created strategic alliances to sell our products through more than 9,900 retail office supply stores and department stores. MeadWestvaco distributes our products to contract stationer businesses such as Office Express, Office Depot, Office Max and Staples, which sell office products through catalog order entry systems to businesses and organizations. MeadWestvaco also represents FranklinCovey in the office superstore category by wholesaling the FranklinCovey Planning System to Staples, Office Depot and OfficeMax and represents us with Target Stores, for which we designed a specialty line of paper planning products branded under the “365 by FranklinCovey” under-brand label which is sold exclusively in their stores. We also have a similar distribution agreement with Heritage Industries in which they manufacture, market and distribute selected products into Sam’s Club, Costco, and an under-brand label “DayOne by FranklinCovey” product line that is sold through WalMart stores. CSBU International. FranklinCovey also markets its products to clients in four countries where it maintains wholly owned product sales operations; Australia, Canada, Mexico and the United Kingdom. Products are produced in styles and languages of the native countries and are sold through retail stores, catalog operations and through Internet portals. Other CSBU Sales. Other CSBU sales include sales of printing services by FranklinCovey Printing, a wholly-owned subsidiary, miscellaneous licensing rights of FranklinCovey products and brands to various marketing customers, and sub-lease revenues from third-party tenants at our corporate headquarters campus. Organizational Solutions Business Unit Domestic Training. We sell effectiveness and productivity solutions to organizations and schools through our own direct sales forces. We then deliver training services to organizations, schools and individuals in one of four ways: 1. FranklinCovey consultants provide on-site consulting or training classes for organizations and schools. In these situations, our consultant can tailor the curriculum to our client’s specific business and objectives. 2. We conduct public seminars in more than 100 cities throughout the United States, where organizations can send their employees in smaller numbers. These public seminars are also marketed directly to individuals through our catalog, e-commerce web-site, retail stores, and by direct mail. 3. Our programs are also designed to be facilitated by licensed professional trainers and managers in client organizations, reducing dependence on our professional presenters, and creating continuing revenue through royalties and as participant materials are purchased for trainees by these facilitators. 4. We also offer The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People® training course in online and CD-ROM formats. This self-paced e-learning alternative provides the flexibility that many organizations need to meet the needs of various groups, managers or supervisors who may be unable to attend extended classroom training and executives who need a series of working sessions over several weeks. Our domestic training operations are organized in geographic regional sales teams in order to assure that both the consultant and the client sales professional participate in the development of new business and the assessment of client needs. Consultants are then entrusted with the actual delivery of content, seminars, processes and other solutions. Consultants follow up with client service teams, working with them to develop lasting client impact and ongoing business opportunities. We employ 111 sales professionals and business developers located in six major metropolitan areas throughout the United States who sell integrated offerings to institutional clients. We also employ an additional 54 sales professionals and business developers outside of the United States in four countries. Our sales professionals have selling experience prior to employment by the Company and are trained and evaluated in their respective sales territories. Sales professionals typically call upon persons responsible for corporate employee training, such as corporate training directors or human resource officers. Increasingly, sales professionals also call upon line leaders. Our sales professionals work closely with training consultants in their territories to schedule and tailor seminars and workshops to meet specific objectives of institutional clients. FranklinCovey currently employs 110 training consultants in major metropolitan areas of the United States, with an additional 39 training consultants outside of the United States. Our training consultants are selected from a large number of experienced applicants. These consultants generally have several years of training and/or consulting experience and are known for their excellent presentation skills. Once selected, the training consultant goes through a rigorous training program including multiple live presentations. The training program ultimately results in the Company's certification of the consultant. We also provide The 7 Habits of Highly Effective Teensä as a workshop or as a year-long curriculum to schools and school districts and other organizations working with youth. Based on The 7 Habits of Highly Effective Teens book, it helps to teach students and teachers studying skills, learning habits, and interpersonal development. In December 2001, we sold the stock of Premier Agendas, a wholly owned subsidiary that previously delivered our products and services to schools, to School Specialty. Pursuant to a license from FranklinCovey, Premier Agendas is expected to continue to expose over 20 million K-12 students to FranklinCovey’s world-renowned 7 Habits content. We retained the educator leadership and effectiveness training portion of Premier’s business. International Sales. We provide products, training and printing services internationally through Company-owned and licensed operations. We have wholly-owned operations and offices in Australia, Canada, Japan, and the United Kingdom. We also have licensed operations in Argentina, Austria, Bangladesh, Belgium, Bermuda, Brazil, Bulgaria, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Czech Republic, Cyprus, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Egypt, El Salvador, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Iceland, Indonesia, Israel, Italy, Kenya, Latvia, Lebanon, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mexico, Nepal, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Puerto Rico, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Singapore, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, Trinidad/Tobago, Turkey, UAE, Ukraine, Uruguay, Venezuela, and Vietnam. There are also licensee retail operations in Hong Kong and South Korea. Our seven most popular books, The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People, Principle–Centered Leadership, The 10 Natural Laws of Time and Life Management,First Things First, The Power Principle, The 7 Habits of Highly Effective Families and The 7 Habits of Highly Effective Teens are currently published in multiple languages. Financial information about our foreign operations is contained in Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements. Strategic Distribution Alliances. We have created strategic alliances with third-party organizations in an effort to develop effective distribution of our products and services. The principal distribution alliances currently maintained by FranklinCovey are: Simon & Schuster and Saint Martin’s Press in publishing books for the Company; Nightingale–Conant to market and distribute audio and video tapes of the Company's book titles; MeadWestvaco to market and distribute selected FranklinCovey Planners and accessories to the commercial and retail office supply channels and in to Target; PalmOneÔ to serve as the official training organization for its PalmOneÔ products; Agilix Labs in development of the PlanPlusÔ Software; Microsoft in conjunction with PlanPlusÔ marketing; and Heritage Travelware. Ltd. to manufacture, market and distribute selected FranklinCovey products to the retail office supply channels as well as to Sams Club, Costco and WalMart. Clients We have a relatively broad base of institutional and individual clients. We have more than 2,000 institutional clients consisting of corporations, governmental agencies, educational institutions and other organizations. We believe our products, workshops and seminars encourage strong client loyalty. Employees in each of our distribution channels focus on providing timely and courteous responses to client requests and inquiries. Institutional clients may choose to receive assistance in designing and developing customized forms, tabs, pagefinders and binders necessary to satisfy specific needs. As a result of the nature of FranklinCovey’s business and distribution channels, the Company does not have, nor has it had, a significant backlog of firm orders. Competition Training. Competition in the performance skills organizational training and education industry is highly fragmented with few large competitors. We estimate that the industry represents more than $7 billion in annual revenues and that the largest traditional organizational training firms have sales in the $100 million to $400 million range. Based upon FranklinCovey's fiscal 2007 organizational sales of approximately $139 million, we believe we are a leading competitor in the organizational training and education market. Other significant competitors in the training market are Development Dimensions International, Institute for International Research (IIR) (formerly Achieve Global and Zenger Miller), Organizational Dynamics Inc., Provant, Forum Corporation, EPS Solutions and the Center for Creative Leadership. Products. The paper-based time management and personal organization products market is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. FranklinCovey competes directly with other companies that manufacture and market calendars, planners, personal organizers, appointment books, diaries and related products through retail, mail order and other sales channels. In this market, several competitors have strong name recognition. We believe our principal competitors include DayTimer, At–A–Glance and Day Runner. We also compete with companies that market substitutes for paper-based products, such as electronic organizers, software, PIM’s and handheld computers. Many FranklinCovey competitors, particularly those providing electronic organizers or cell-phones with electronic organization capabilities, software-based management systems, and hand-held computers, have access to marketing, product development, financial and other resources significantly in excess of those available to FranklinCovey. An emerging potential source of competition is the appearance of calendars and event-planning services available at no charge on the Web. There is no indication that the current level of features has proven to be attractive to the traditional FranklinCovey planner customer as a stand-alone service, but as these products evolve and improve, they could pose a competitive threat. Given the relative ease of entry in FranklinCovey's product and training markets, the number of competitors could increase, many of whom may imitate existing methods of distribution, products and seminars, or offer similar products and seminars at lower prices. Some of these companies may have greater financial and other resources than us. We believe that the FranklinCovey Planning System and related products compete primarily on the basis of user appeal, client loyalty, design, product breadth, quality, price, functionality and client service. We also believe that the FranklinCovey Planning System has obtained market acceptance primarily as a result of the concepts embodied in it, the high quality of materials, innovative design, our attention to client service, and the strong loyalty and referrals of our existing clients. We believe that our integration of training services with products has become a competitive advantage. Moreover, we believe that we are a market leader in the United States among a small number of integrated providers of productivity and time management products and services. Increased competition from existing and future competitors could, however, have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Manufacturing and Distribution The manufacturing operations of FranklinCovey consist primarily of printing, collating, assembling and packaging components used in connection with our paper product lines. We operate our central manufacturing services out of Salt Lake City, Utah. We have also developed partner printers, both domestically and internationally, who can meet our quality standards, thereby facilitating efficient delivery of product in a global market. We believe this has positioned us for greater flexibility and growth capacity. Automated production, assembly and material handling equipment are used in the manufacturing process to ensure consistent quality of production materials and to control costs and maintain efficiencies. By operating in this fashion, we have gained greater control of production costs, schedules and quality control of printed materials. During fiscal 2001, we entered into a long-term contract with EDS to provide warehousing and distribution services for our product line. EDS maintains a facility at the Company’s headquarters as well as at other locations throughout North America. Binders and totes are produced using leather, simulated leather, fabrics, and other synthetic materials. These binders and totes are produced by multiple product suppliers. We currently enjoy good relations with our suppliers and vendors and do not anticipate any difficulty in obtaining the required binders, totes and materials needed for our business. We have implemented special procedures to ensure a high standard of quality for our products, most of which are manufactured by suppliers in the United States, Europe, Canada, Korea, Mexico and China. We also purchase numerous accessories, including pens, books, videotapes, calculators and other products, from various suppliers for resale to our clients. These items are manufactured by a variety of outside contractors located in the United States and abroad. We do not believe that we are materially dependent on any one or more of such contractors and consider our relationships with such suppliers to be good. Research and Development FranklinCovey believes that the development of new products and curricula are important to maintaining its competitive position. Our products and services are conceived, designed and developed through the collaboration of our internal innovations group and external partner organizations. We focus our product design efforts on both improving our existing products and developing new products. We intend to continue to employ a customer focused design approach to provide innovative products and curricula that respond to and anticipate customer needs for functionality, productivity and effectiveness. We expense in the same year incurred part of the costs to develop new curricula and products. Curriculum costs are only capitalized when a course is developed that will result in significant future benefits or when there is a major revision to a course or course materials. Our research and development expenditures totaled $3.3 million, $2.3 million, and $2.2 million in fiscal years 2007, 2006, and 2005 respectively, and we capitalized certain development costs totaling $5.1 million, $4.0 million, and $2.2 million respectively, for the same years. Trademarks, Copyrights and Intellectual Property We seek to protect our intellectual property through a combination of trademarks, copyrights and confidentiality agreements. We claim rights for 128 trademarks in the United States and have obtained registration in the United States and many foreign countries for many of our trademarks, including FranklinCovey, The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People, Principle–Centered Leadership, The 4 Disciplines of Execution, FranklinCovey Planner, PlanPlus, The 7 Habits, and The 8th Habit. We consider our trademarks and other proprietary rights to be important and material to our business. Each of the marks set forth in italics above is a registered mark or a mark for which protection is claimed. We own sole or joint copyrights on our planning systems, books, manuals, text and other printed information provided in our training seminars, the programs contained within FranklinCovey Planner Software and its instructional materials, and our software and electronic products, including audio tapes and video tapes. We license, rather than sell, all facilitator workbooks and other seminar and training materials in order to protect our intellectual property rights therein. FranklinCovey places trademark and copyright notices on its instructional, marketing and advertising materials. In order to maintain the proprietary nature of our product information, FranklinCovey enters into written confidentiality agreements with certain executives, product developers, sales professionals, training consultants, other employees and licensees. Although we believe the protective measures with respect to our proprietary rights are important, there can be no assurance that such measures will provide significant protection from competitors. Employees As of August 31, 2007, FranklinCovey had approximately 1,425 full and part-time associates, including 835 in sales, marketing and training; 315 in customer service and retail; 90 in production operations and distribution; and 185 in administration and support staff. During fiscal 2002, the Company outsourced a significant part of its information technology services, customer service, distribution and warehousing operations to EDS. A number of the Company’s former employees involved in these operations are now employed by EDS to provide those services to FranklinCovey. None of our associates are represented by a union or other collective bargaining group. Management believes that its relations with its associates are good and we do not currently foresee a shortage in qualified personnel needed to operate our business. Available Information The Company's principal executive offices are located at 2200 West Parkway Boulevard, Salt Lake City, Utah 84119-2331 and our telephone number is (801) 817-1776. We regularly file reports with the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC). These reports include, but are not limited to, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and security transaction reports on Forms 3, 4, or 5. The public may read and copy any materials that the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains electronic versions of the Company’s reports on its website at www.sec.gov. The Company makes our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and other reports filed or furnished with the SEC available to the public, free of charge, through our website at www.franklincovey.com. These reports are provided through our website as soon as reasonable practicable after we file or furnish these reports with the SEC. Back to Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business environment, current domestic and international economic conditions, and other specific risks may affect our future business decisions and financial performance. The matters discussed below may cause our future results to differ from past results or those described in forward-looking statements and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, and stock price, and should be considered in evaluating our company. The following list of potential risks does not contain the only risks currently facing us. Additional business risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that are not currently believed to be material may also harm our business operations and financial results in future periods. We operate in intensely competitive industries The training and consulting industry and personal organizer industry are intensely competitive with relatively easy entry. Competitors continually introduce new programs and products that may compete directly with our offerings or that may make our offerings uncompetitive or obsolete. Larger and better capitalized competitors may have superior abilities to compete for clients and skilled professionals, reducing our ability to deliver quality work to our clients. In addition, one or more of our competitors may develop and implement training courses or methodologies that may adversely affect our ability to sell our curricula and products to new clients. Any one of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain and successfully deliver client work or products. We have experienced net losses in recent fiscal years and we may not be able to maintain consistent profitability Although we reported net income in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, we have experienced significant net losses in recent years and we cannot assure you that we will maintain consistently profitable operations. During previous years we have faced numerous challenges that have affected our operating results. Specifically, we have experienced, and may continue to experience the following: · Declining traffic in our retail stores and consumer direct channel · Risk of excess and obsolete inventories · Operating expenses that, as a percentage of sales, have exceeded our desired business model · Costs associated with exiting unprofitable or underperforming retail stores In addition, if we are unable to maintain profitable operations we may be required to reestablish valuation allowances on our deferred tax assets if it becomes more likely than not that we would not be able to realize the benefits of those assets. The reestablishment of deferred tax assets would have an unfavorable impact upon our reported net income. If we do not achieve the appropriate cost structure our profitability could decrease Our future success and profitability depend in part on our ability to achieve the appropriate cost structure and be efficient in the highly competitive training, consulting, and personal organizer industries. We regularly monitor our operating costs and develop initiatives and business models that impact our operations and are designed to improve our profitability. Our recent initiatives have included redemptions of preferred stock, reconfiguration of our printing operations, exiting non-core businesses, asset sales, headcount reductions, and other internal initiatives designed to reduce our operating costs. If we do not achieve targeted business model cost levels and manage costs and processes to achieve additional efficiencies, our competitiveness and profitability could decrease. Our results of operations are materially affected by economic conditions, levels of business activity, and other changes experienced by our clients Uncertain economic conditions may affect our clients’ businesses and their budgets for training, consulting, and related products. Such economic conditions and budgeted spending are influenced by a wide range of factors that are beyond our control and that we have no comparative advantage in forecasting. These conditions include: · The overall demand for training, consulting, and our related products · Conditions and trends in the training and consulting industry · General economic and business conditions · General political developments, such as the war on terrorism, and their impacts upon our business both domestically and internationally · Natural or man-made disasters A prolonged economic downturn, particularly in the United States, could increase these effects on our business. In addition, our business tends to lag behind economic cycles and, consequently, the benefits of an economic recovery following a period of economic downturn may take longer for us to realize than other segments of the economy. Our product sales may continue to decline and result in changes to our profitability In recent years, our product sales have declined. These product sales, which are primarily delivered through our retail stores, consumer direct channels (primarily catalog call center and eCommerce), wholesale, and government product channels, have historically been very profitable for us. However, due to recent sales declines, we have reevaluated our product business and have taken steps to restore its profitability. These initiatives have included retail store closures, active efforts to transition catalog customers to our eCommerce site, outsourcing our government products channel, and increasing our business through wholesale channels. However, these initiatives may also result in decreased gross margins on our product sales if lower-margin wholesale sales increase. If product sales continue to decline or gross margins on these sales decline, our product sales strategies may not be adequate to return our product delivery channels to past profitability levels. Our work with governmental clients exposes us to additional risks that are inherent in the government contracting process Our clients include national, provincial, state and local governmental entities and our work with these governmental entities has various risks inherent in the government contracting process. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: · Government entities typically fund projects through appropriated monies. While these projects are often planned and executed as multi-year projects, the government entities usually reserve the right to change the scope of or terminate these projects for lack of approved funding and at their convenience. Changes in government or political developments could result in changes in scope or in termination of our projects. · Government entities often reserve the right to audit our contract costs, including allocated indirect costs, and conduct inquiries and investigations of our business practices with respect to our government contracts. If the governmental entity finds that the costs are not reimbursable, then we will not be allowed to bill for these costs, or the cost must be refunded to the client if it has already been paid to us. Findings from an audit also may result in our being required to prospectively adjust previously agreed rates for our work and may affect our future margins. · If a government client discovers improper activities in the course of audits or investigations, we may become subject to various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing business with other agencies of that government. The inherent limitations of internal controls may not prevent or detect all improper or illegal activities, regardless of their adequacy. · Political and economic factors such as pending elections, revisions to governmental tax policies and reduced tax revenues can affect the number and terms of new government contracts signed. The occurrences or conditions described above could affect not only our business with the particular governmental agency involved, but also our business with other agencies of the same or other governmental entities. Additionally, because of their visibility and political nature, government projects may present a heightened risk to our reputation. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business or our results of operations. We may not be able to compensate for lower sales or unexpected cash outlays with cost reductions significant enough to generate positive net income Although we have initiated cost-cutting efforts that have included headcount reductions, retail store closures, consolidation of administrative office space, and changes in our advertising and marketing strategy, if we are not able to prevent further sales declines or achieve our growth objectives, we will need to further reduce our costs. An unintended consequence of additional cost reductions may be reduced sales. If we are not able to effectively reduce our costs and expenses commensurate with, or at the same pace as, any further deterioration in our sales, we may not be able to generate positive net income or cash flows from operations. An inability to maintain or continue to increase cash flows from operations may have an adverse impact upon our liquidity and ability to operate the business. For example, we may not be able to obtain additional financing or raise additional capital on terms that would be acceptable to us. Our cash balances have significantly decreased, which may reduce our ability to adequately respond to future adverse changes in our business and operations During the year ended August 31, 2007, we utilized substantially all of our available cash on hand combined with proceeds from a newly acquired line of credit to redeem all of the remaining outstanding shares of Series A preferred stock. As a consequence of this transaction, our cash balances have significantly decreased, which may reduce our ability to adequately respond to future adverse changes in our business and operations, whether anticipated or unanticipated. Failure to comply with the terms and conditions of our credit facility may have an adverse effect upon our business and operations Our newly acquired line of credit facility requires us to be in compliance with customary non-financial terms and conditions as well as specified financial ratios. Failure to comply with these terms and conditions or maintain adequate financial performance to comply with specific financial ratios entitles the lenders to certain remedies, including the right to immediately call due any amounts outstanding on the line of credit. Such events would have an adverse effect upon our business and operations as there can be no assurance that we may be able to obtain other forms of financing or raise additional capital on terms that would be acceptable to us. Our global operations pose complex management, foreign currency, legal, tax, and economic risks, which we may not adequately address We have Company-owned offices in Australia, Canada, Japan, Mexico, and the United Kingdom. We also have licensed operations in numerous other foreign countries. As a result of these foreign operations and their growing impact upon our results of operations, we are subject to a number of risks, including: · Restrictions on the movement of cash · Burdens of complying with a wide variety of national and local laws · The absence in some jurisdictions of effective laws to protect our intellectual property rights · Political instability · Currency exchange rate fluctuations · Longer payment cycles · Price controls or restrictions on exchange of foreign currencies While we are not currently aware of any of the foregoing conditions materially adversely affecting our operations, these conditions, which are outside of our control, could change at any time. We may experience foreign currency gains and losses Our sales outside of the United States totaled $65.0 million, or 23 percent of total sales, for the year ended August 31, 2007. As our international operations continue to grow and become a larger component of our overall financial results, our revenues and operating results may be adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies and may be positively affected when the dollar weakens. In order to manage a portion of our foreign currency risk, we make limited use of foreign currency derivative contracts to hedge certain transactions and translation exposure. There can be no guarantee that our foreign currency risk management strategy will be effective in reducing the risks associated with foreign currency transactions and translation. Our global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violation of these regulations could harm our business Because we provide services to clients in many countries, we are subject to numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters as diverse as import/export controls, content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, government affairs, internal and disclosure control obligations, data privacy and labor relations. Violations of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business and damage to our reputation. Violations of these regulations in connection with the performance of our obligations to our clients also could result in liability for monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity, restrictions on our ability to process information and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations. Due to the varying degrees of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws might be insufficient to protect our rights. Legislation related to certain non-U.S. corporations has been enacted in various jurisdictions in the United States. Additional legislative proposals remain under consideration in various legislatures which, if enacted, could limit or even prohibit our eligibility to be awarded state or Federal government contracts in the United States in the future. Changes in laws and regulations applicable to foreign corporations could also mandate significant and costly changes to the way we implement our services and solutions. These changes could threaten our ability to continue to serve certain markets. In many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business community might not conform to international business standards and could violate anticorruption regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits giving anything of value intended to influence the awarding of government contracts. Although we have policies and procedures to ensure legal and regulatory compliance, our employees, subcontractors and agents could take actions that violate these requirements. Violations of these regulations could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions, including fines and suspension or disqualification from U.S. federal procurement contracting, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We could have liability or our reputation could be damaged if we do not protect client data or if our information systems are breached We are dependent on information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations around the world and with our clients. Security breaches of this infrastructure could lead to shutdowns or disruptions of our systems and potential unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. We are also required at times to manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or employee data. As a result, we are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as the various U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of health or other individually identifiable information. If any person, including any of our associates, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to such data or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or employee data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Our profitability will suffer if we are not able to maintain our pricing and utilization rates and control our costs Our profit margin on training services is largely a function of the rates we are able to recover for our services and the utilization, or chargeability, of our trainers, client partners, and consultants. Accordingly, if we are unable to maintain sufficient pricing for our services or an appropriate utilization rate for our training professionals without corresponding cost reductions, our profit margin and overall profitability will suffer. The rates that we are able to recover for our services are affected by a number of factors, including: · Our clients’ perceptions of our ability to add value through our programs and products · Competition · General economic conditions · Introduction of new programs or services by us or our competitors · Our ability to accurately estimate, attain, and sustain engagement sales, margins, and cash flows over longer contract periods Our utilization rates are also affected by a number of factors, including: · Seasonal trends, primarily as a result of scheduled training · Our ability to forecast demand for our products and services and thereby maintain an appropriate headcount in our employee base · Our ability to manage attrition Our training program profitability is also a function of our ability to control costs and improve our efficiency in the delivery of our services. Our cost-cutting initiatives, which focus on reducing both fixed and variable costs, may not be sufficient to deal with downward pressure on pricing or utilization rates. As we introduce new programs and seek to increase the number of our training professionals, we may not be able to manage a significantly larger and more diverse workforce, control our costs, or improve our efficiency. Our new training programs and products may not be widely accepted in the marketplace In an effort to improve our sales performance, we have made significant investments in new training and consulting offerings. Additionally, we have invested in our existing programs in order to refresh these programs and keep them relevant in the marketplace, including certain programs based on the newly revised The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People curriculum. If our clients’ demand for these new programs and products does not develop as we expect, or if our sales and marketing strategies for these programs are not effective, our financial results could be adversely impacted and we may need to significantly change our business strategy. Our training contracts could be unprofitable if our pricing structures do not accurately anticipate the cost and complexity of performing our work We negotiate pricing terms with our clients utilizing a range of pricing structures and conditions. Depending on the particular contract, these include time-and-materials pricing, fixed-price pricing, and contracts with features of both of these pricing models. Our pricing is highly dependent on our internal forecasts and predictions about our projects and the marketplace, which might be based on limited data and could turn out to be inaccurate or used ineffectively. If we do not accurately estimate the costs and timing for completing projects, our contracts could prove unprofitable for us or yield lower profit margins than anticipated. In particular, any increased or unexpected costs, delays or failures to achieve anticipated cost savings in connection with the performance of such work, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make our training contracts less profitable or unprofitable, which would have an adverse effect on our profit margin. If we are unable to attract, retain, and motivate high-quality employees, including training consultants and other key training representatives, we will not be able to compete effectively and will not be able to grow our business Due to our reliance on customer satisfaction, our overall success and ability to grow are dependent, in part, on our ability to hire, retain, and motivate sufficient numbers of talented people with the necessary skills needed to serve clients and grow our business. The inability to attract qualified employees in sufficient numbers to meet particular demands or the loss of a significant number of our employees could have a serious adverse effect on us, including our ability to obtain and successfully complete important client engagements and thus maintain or increase our sales. We continue to offer a variable component of compensation, the payment of which is dependent upon our sales performance and profitability. We adjust our compensation levels and have adopted different methods of compensation in order to attract and retain appropriate numbers of employees with the necessary skills to serve our clients and grow our business. We may also use equity-based performance incentives as a component of our executives’ compensation, which may affect amounts of cash compensation. Variations in any of these areas of compensation may adversely impact our operating performance. We have only a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, which are important to our success Our financial success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary training methodologies, product designs, and other intellectual property. The existing laws of some countries in which we provide services might offer only limited protection of our intellectual property rights. To protect our intellectual property, we rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements, and patent, copyright and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property rights. The steps we take in this regard might not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our intellectual property, and we might not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights, especially in foreign jurisdictions. The loss of proprietary methodologies or the unauthorized use of our intellectual property may create greater competition, loss of revenue, adverse publicity, and may limit our ability to reuse that intellectual property for other clients. Any limitation on our ability to provide a service or solution could cause us to lose revenue-generating opportunities and require us to incur additional expenses to develop new or modified solutions for future projects. Our strategy of outsourcing certain functions and operations may fail to reduce our costs for these services We have an outsourcing contract with Electronic Data Systems (EDS) to provide warehousing, distribution, information systems, and call center operations. Under terms of the outsourcing contract and its addendums, EDS operates our primary call center, provides warehousing and distribution services, and supports our various information systems. Due to the nature of our outsourced operations, we are unable to exercise the same level of control over outsourced functions and the actions of EDS employees in outsourced roles as our own employees. As a result, the inherent risks associated with these outsourced areas of operation may be increased. Certain components of the outsourcing agreement contain minimum activity levels that we must meet or we will be required to pay penalty charges. If these activity levels are not achieved, we may not realize anticipated benefits from the EDS outsourcing agreement in these areas. Our outsourcing contracts with EDS also contain early termination provisions that we may exercise under certain conditions. However, in order to exercise the early termination provisions, we would have to pay specified penalties to EDS depending upon the circumstances of the contract termination. We have significant intangible asset balances that may be impaired if cash flows from related activities decline At August 31, 2007 we had $75.9 million of intangible assets, which were primarily generated from the fiscal 1997 merger with the Covey Leadership Center. These intangible assets are evaluated for impairment based upon cash flows (definite-lived intangible assets) and estimated royalties from revenue streams (indefinite-lived intangible assets). Although our current sales and cash flows are sufficient to support the carrying basis of these intangibles, if our sales and corresponding cash flows decline, we may be faced with significant asset impairment charges that would have an adverse impact upon our profit margin. Our business could be negatively affected if we incur legal liability in connection with providing our solutions and services If we fail to meet our contractual obligations, fail to disclose our financial or other arrangements with our alliance partners or otherwise breach obligations to clients, or if our subcontractors dispute the terms of our agreements with them, we could be subject to legal liability. We may enter into non-standard agreements because we perceive an important economic opportunity or because our personnel did not adequately adhere to our guidelines. We may also find ourselves committed to providing services that we are unable to deliver or whose delivery will cause us financial loss. If we cannot, or do not perform our obligations, we could face legal liability and our contracts might not always protect us adequately through limitations on the scope of our potential liability. If we cannot meet our contractual obligations to provide solutions and services, and if our exposure is not adequately limited through the terms of our agreements, then we might face significant legal liability and our business could be adversely affected. Our future quarterly operating results are subject to factors that can cause fluctuations in our stock price Historically, our stock price has experienced significant volatility. We expect that our stock price may continue to experience volatility in the future due to a variety of potential factors that may include the following: · Fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations and cash flows · Variations between our actual financial results and market expectations · Changes in our key balances, such as cash and cash equivalents · Currency exchange rate fluctuations · Unexpected asset impairment charges · Lack of analyst coverage In addition, the stock market has experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations over the past several years that has had some impact upon our stock and other stock issues in the market. These factors, as well as general investor concerns regarding the credibility of corporate financial statements and the accounting profession, may have a material adverse effect upon our stock in the future. We may need additional capital in the future, and this capital may not be available to us on favorable terms We may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt offerings or equity financings in order to: · Develop new services, programs, or products · Take advantage of opportunities, including expansion of the business · Respond to competitive pressures We may be unable to obtain the necessary capital on terms or conditions that are favorable to us. We are the creditor for a management common stock loan program that may not be fully collectible We are the creditor for a loan program that provided the capital to allow certain management personnel the opportunity to purchase shares of our common stock. For further information regarding our management common stock loan program, refer to Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements as found in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our inability to collect all, or a portion, of these receivables could have an adverse impact upon our financial position and future cash flows compared to full collection of the loans. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities As a multinational company, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and various foreign tax jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. In the normal course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As a result, we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the final determination of tax audits will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. We are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, and property taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income tax liabilities. A natural or man-made disaster could have a material adverse effect on our business We have products and training materials manufactured at numerous sites located around the world. However, a significant portion of our products (especially paper products) are manufactured and shipped from facilities located in Salt Lake City, Utah. In the event that these facilities were severely damaged or destroyed as a result of a natural or man-made disaster, we would be forced to rely solely on third-party manufacturers. Such an event could disrupt our ability to produce and ship products which could lead to a material adverse impact on our business prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 