ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Note on Forward Looking Statements In addition to the other information in this annual report the factors listed below should be considered in evaluating our business and prospects. This annual report contains a number of forward-looking statements that reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including those discussed below and elsewhere herein, that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or those anticipated. In this report, the words “anticipates,” “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “future” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned to consider the specific factors described below and not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained herein, which speak only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to publicly revise these forward-looking statements, to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date hereof. Financial Risks We Have a History of Losses and May Incur Future Losses. Except for a profit in fiscal 2009, historically we have incurred significant losses and negative cash flow from operations and we have an accumulated deficit of $81.0 million at March 31, 2011. Our profitability in fiscal 2009 resulted from one-time patent licensing revenues and there is no assurance of future licensing revenues from new licensees. Accordingly, we could continue to incur losses in the future until product, service and/or licensing revenues are sufficient to sustain continued profitability. Failure to achieve or maintain profitability will likely negatively impact the value of our securities. Our ability to continue as a going concern is in doubt and is dependent upon achieving a profitable level of operations and if necessary obtaining additional financing. If We Encounter Unforeseen Difficulties and Cannot Obtain and Required Additional Funding on Favorable Terms, Our Business May Suffer. Our consolidated cash and cash equivalents on hand totaled $1.8 million at March 31, 2011. To date, we have relied primarily upon the sale of equity securities, product and service revenues and payments from licensees to generate the funds needed to finance our operations. If our losses grow or we encounter unforeseen difficulties in the future, including difficulties arising as a result of the outside influences identified below, we may deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. As a result, we may be required to obtain additional financing in the future through debt or equity financings or otherwise. If we are required to raise additional capital in the future, such additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all, or may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. If we fail to obtain additional capital as and when needed, such failure could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. General Economic Conditions May Reduce Our Revenues and Harm Our Business. Our business is exposed to adverse changes in general economic conditions and financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia. Because use of our products is entertainment-oriented and generally discretionary the current slowdown or a further decline in U.S. and foreign economic growth could adversely affect consumer confidence, disposable income and spending. As a result, sales of our products to customers and the use by consumers may not grow as rapidly as in prior periods or may decrease, which could adversely affect our future revenues. We Expect Our Operating Results to Fluctuate Significantly. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and we expect that they will continue to fluctuate in the future. This fluctuation is a result of a variety of factors, including the following: · Unpredictable demand and required pricing to secure customers for our products and services · Uncertainty regarding the timing and amount of any future patent licensing revenues · Market acceptance of our products by our customers and their end users · Uncertainties with respect to future customer product orders, their timing and the margins to be received, if any · Fluctuations in product costs and operating costs · Changes in research and development costs 11 · Changes in general economic conditions · Risks and costs of warranty claims · Changes in technology · Short product lifecycles and possible obsolescence of inventory and materials We do not Anticipate Paying Dividends. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. An investment in our common stock, therefore, may be more suitable for an investor that is seeking capital appreciation rather than current yield and, as a consequence, may be more speculative. Accordingly, investors should not purchase our common stock with an expectation of receiving regular dividends. Risks Related to Product Sales, Marketing and Competition We May Be Unable to Successfully Compete in the Electronic Products Market Which is Highly Competitive and Subject to Rapid Technological Change. We compete in the market for electronics products that is intensely competitive and subject to rapid technological change. The market is also impacted by evolving industry standards, rapid price changes and rapid product obsolescence. Our competitors include a number of large foreign companies with U.S. operations and a number of domestic companies, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources. Our current competitors or new market entrants could introduce new or enhanced technologies or products with features that render our technology or products obsolete or less marketable, or could develop means of producing competitive products or solutions at a lower cost. Our ability to compete successfully will depend in large measure on our ability to adapt to technological changes and advances in the industry. Competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins, and loss of customers, any of which could harm our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to keep pace with the technological demands of the marketplace or successfully enhance our products or develop new products that are compatible with the products of the electronics industry. Moreover, there can be no assurance that other products or solutions will not render our technology and products obsolete. We Rely on a Limited Number of Customers for Revenue. Historically, a substantial portion of our product revenues has been derived primarily from a limited number of customers. The failure to receive orders for products or a further decline in the economic prospects of our airline customers may have a material adverse effect on our operations. The airline industry is continuing to face a variety of economic challenges that may adversely affect the prospects for new orders of portable IFE systems and adversely affecting future operating results. We Have Limited Marketing Capabilities and Resources Which Makes It Difficult For Us to Create Awareness of and Demand for Our Products and Technology. We have limited marketing capabilities and resources and are primarily dependent on our in-house executives for the marketing of our products, as well as our licensing business. Selling products and attracting new business customers requires ongoing marketing and sales efforts and expenditure of funds to create awareness of and demand for our technology. We cannot assure that our marketing efforts will be successful or result in future development contracts or other revenues. Risks Related to Operations We Depend On One Contract Manufacturer and a Limited Number of Suppliers and Our Business Will Be Harmed By Any Interruption of Supply or Failure of Performance. We rely on one contract manufacturer for our eVU product. We depend on our contract manufacturer to (i) allocate sufficient capacity to our manufacturing needs, (ii) produce acceptable quality products at agreed pricing and (iii) deliver on a timely basis. We also rely on limited number of suppliers for eVU accessory products. If a manufacturer is unable to satisfy our requirements, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. Any failure in performance by our manufacturers for any reason could have a material adverse affect on our business. Production and pricing by such manufacturer is subject to the risk of price fluctuations and periodic shortages of components. We have no supply agreements with component suppliers and, accordingly, we are dependent on the future ability of our manufacturer to purchase components. Failure or delay by suppliers in supplying necessary components could adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely and competitive basis in the future. 12 If We Lose Key Personnel or Are Unable to Attract and Retain Additional Highly Skilled Personnel Required For the Expansion of Our Activities Our Business Will Suffer. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our key technical, sales and senior management personnel and their ability to execute our strategy. The loss of the services of any of our senior level management, or certain other key employees or our intellectual property consultant may harm our business. Our future success also depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees and consultants. Competition for employees in our industry is intense. We may be unable to retain our key employees or to attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified employees in the future. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. Risks Related to our Patent Licensing and Enforcement Strategy We Face Uncertain Revenue Prospects from our Patent Enforcement Strategy. Our portfolio has not been tested in court and there is no assurance we can prevail in any current or future patent litigation. Unfavorable rulings from the completed Markman hearing or from the USPTO reexamination of our patents could reduce or preclude our ability to license our patents. The licensing demand for our patent portfolio is subject to fluctuation based upon the rate at which target infringers agree to pay royalties or settle future enforcement actions, if any. There can be no assurance of future revenues from our strategy of enforcing our flash memory patent portfolio. Due to the nature of our licensing business and uncertainties regarding the amount and timing of the receipt of future license fees, if any, from potential infringers, stemming primarily from uncertainties regarding the outcome of enforcement actions, rates of adoption of our patented technologies, the growth rates of our prospective licensees and other factors, our revenues may vary significantly in the future, which could make our business difficult to manage, adversely affect our business and operating results, cause our quarterly and annual results to be below market expectations and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our Fee Arrangement with Patent Enforcement Counsel Subjects Us to Certain Risks and Substantial Costs and Fees Could Limit Our Net Proceeds From Any Successful Patent Enforcement Actions. Our agreement for legal services and a contingent fee arrangement with Duane Morris LLP provides that Duane Morris is our exclusive legal counsel in connection with the assertion of our flash memory related patents against infringers (“Patent Enforcement Matters”). Duane Morris is advancing certain costs and expenses including travel expenses, court costs and expert fees. We have agreed to pay Duane Morris a fee equal to 40% of any license or litigation recovery related to Patent Enforcement Matters, after recovery of expenses, and 50% of recovery if appeal is necessary. We are not in control of the timing, costs and fees, which could be substantial and could limit our share of proceeds, if any, from future patent enforcement actions. There can be no assurance Duane Morris will diligently and timely pursue patent enforcement actions on our behalf. In the event we are acquired or sold or we elect to sell the covered patents or upon certain other corporate events or in the event we terminate the agreement with Duane Morris for any reason, then Duane Morris shall be entitled to collect accrued costs and a fee equal to three times overall time and expenses and a fee of 15% of a good faith estimate of the overall value of the covered patents. We have provided Duane Morris a lien and a security interest in the covered patents to secure this obligation. Should any of the aforementioned events occur, the fees and costs owed to Duane Morris could be substantial and limit our revenues. New Legislation, Regulations or Rules Related to Enforcing Patents Could Significantly Decrease Our Prospect for Revenue and Increase the Time and Costs Associated with Patent Enforcement. If new legislation, regulations or rules are implemented either by Congress, the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or the courts that impact the patent application process, the patent enforcement process or the rights of patent holders, these changes could negatively affect our revenue prospects and increase the costs of enforcement. For example, new rules regarding the burden of proof in patent enforcement actions could significantly increase the cost of our enforcement actions, and any new standards or limitations on liability for patent infringement could negatively impact revenue derived from such enforcement actions. While we are not aware that any such changes are likely to occur in the foreseeable future that impact our current patents, we cannot assure that such changes will not occur. Should Litigation Be Required to Enforce Our Patents, Trial Judges and Juries Often Find It Difficult to Understand Complex Patent Enforcement Litigation, and as a Result, We May Need to Appeal Adverse Decisions By Lower Courts In Order to Successfully Enforce Our Patents. It is difficult to predict the outcome of patent enforcement litigation at the trial level. It is often difficult for juries and trial judges to understand complex, patented technologies, and as a result, there is a higher rate of successful appeals in patent enforcement litigation than more standard business litigation. Such appeals are expensive and time consuming, resulting in increased costs and delayed revenue. Although we intend to diligently pursue enforcement litigation if necessary to monetize our patents, we cannot predict with significant reliability the decisions made by juries and trial courts. Federal Courts are Becoming More Crowded, and as a Result, Patent Enforcement Litigation is Taking Longer. Any patent enforcement actions we may be required to take to monetize our patents will most likely be prosecuted in federal court. Federal trial courts that hear patent enforcement actions also hear other cases that may take priority over any actions we may take. As a result, it is difficult to predict the length of time it will take to complete any enforcement actions. 13 As Patent Enforcement Litigation Becomes More Prevalent, It May Become More Difficult for Us to Voluntarily License Our Patents. We believe that the more prevalent patent enforcement actions become, the more difficult it will be for us to voluntarily license our patents to major electronic firms. As a result, we may need to increase the number of our patent enforcement actions to cause infringing companies to license our patents or pay damages for lost royalties. This may increase the risks associated with an investment in our Company. Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Government Regulation Failing to Protect Our Proprietary Rights to Our Technology Could Harm Our Ability to Compete, as well as Our Results of Our Operations. Our success and ability to compete substantially depends on our internally developed software, technologies and trademarks, which we protect through a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws. Patent applications or trademark registrations may not be approved. Even when they are approved, our patents or trademarks may be successfully challenged by others or invalidated. If our trademark registrations are not approved because third parties own such trademarks, our use of these trademarks would be restricted unless we enter into arrangements with the third-party owners, which may not be possible on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic and industry partners, and generally control access to and distribution of our software, technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use or disclosure, parties may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our solutions or technologies. The steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of our solutions or technologies, particularly in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We have licensed, and we may license in the future, certain proprietary rights to third parties. While we attempt to ensure that our business partners maintain the quality of our brand, they may take actions that could impair the value of our proprietary rights or our reputation. In addition, these business partners may not take the same steps we have taken to prevent misappropriation of our solutions or technologies. We May Face Intellectual Property Infringement Claims That May Be Difficult to Defend and Costly to Resolve, Which Could Harm Our Business. Although we do not believe we infringe the proprietary rights of any third parties, we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert such claims against us in the future or that such claims will not be successful. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources to defend any claims relating to proprietary rights, which could harm our business. In addition, we are obligated under certain agreements to indemnify the other party for claims that we infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties. If we are required to indemnify parties under these agreements, our business could be harmed. If someone asserts a claim relating to proprietary technology or information against us, we may seek licenses to this intellectual property. We may not be able to obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights may harm our business. Risks Related to Government Regulation, Content and Intellectual Property Government Regulation May Subject Us to Liability and Require Us to Change the Way We Do Business. Our business is subject to rapidly changing laws and regulations. Although our operations are currently based in California, the United States government and the governments of other states and foreign countries have attempted to regulate activities on the Internet. Evolving areas of law that are relevant to our business include privacy law, copyright law, proposed encryption laws, content regulation and import/export regulations. Because of this rapidly evolving and uncertain regulatory environment, we cannot predict how these laws and regulations might affect our business. In addition, these uncertainties make it difficult to ensure compliance with the laws and regulations governing the Internet. These laws and regulations could harm us by subjecting us to liability or forcing us to change how we do business. We are also subject to regulations for portable electronic devices in various countries and for the emissions of such devices in aircraft. Failure to comply with these many regulations could harm our business or require us to repurchase products from customers. Compliance With Current And Future Environmental Regulations May Be Costly, Which Could Impact Our Future Earnings. We are subject to environmental and other regulations due to our production and marketing of products in certain states and countries. We also face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and upcoming requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including the restrictions on lead and certain other substances in electronics that apply to specified electronics products put on the market in the European Union as of July 1, 2006 (Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (EU RoHS)). The European Union has also finalized the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE), which makes producers of electrical goods financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. Other countries, such as the United States, China and Japan, have enacted or may enact laws or regulations similar to the EU RoHS or WEEE Legislation. These and other environmental regulations may require us to reengineer certain of our existing products to comply with environmental regulations. 14 We May Incur Liability from Our Requirement to Indemnify Certain Customers Regarding Litigation and Certain Intellectual Property Matters. Our contracts with major airlines are subject to future performance by us and product warranties and intellectual property indemnifications including certain remedies, ranging from modification to product substitution or refund. Should our products be deemed to infringe on the intellectual property of others the costs of modification, substitution or refund could be material and could harm our business and adversely impact our operations. Risks Related to Trading in Our Common Stock Our Disclosure Controls and Procedures May Not Prevent or Detect All Acts of Fraud. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed in reports filed or submitted under the Securities Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management and is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Our management expects that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, they cannot provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company have been prevented or detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by an unauthorized override of the controls. The design of any systems of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Failure to Maintain an Effective System of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Could Harm Stockholder and Business Confidence In Our Financial Reporting, Our Ability to Obtain Financing and Other Aspects of Our Business. Maintaining an effective system of internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC require us to include in our Form 10-K a report by management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the respective fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. While our management has concluded that we did not have any material weaknesses as of March 31, 2011, material weaknesses have been identified in prior years and it is possible that material weaknesses will be identified in the future. In addition, components of our internal control over financial reporting may require improvement from time to time. If management is unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on its stock price. Evolving Regulation of Corporate Governance and Public Disclosure May Result In Additional Expenses and Continuing Uncertainty. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, conversion to International Financial Reporting Standards, XBRL interactive SEC filings, and new SEC regulations are creating uncertainty for public companies. We continually evaluate and monitor developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and we may be harmed. 15 Sales of Common Stock Issuable on the Exercise of Outstanding Warrants and Options May Depress the Price of Our Common Stock. As of March 31, 2011, we had outstanding warrants to purchase 7,500,000 shares of our common stock and outstanding options granted to our employees, directors and consultants to purchase 6,022,500 shares of our common stock. The exercise prices for the options and warrants range from $0.09 to $0.185 per share. In the future we may issue additional convertible securities, options and warrants. The issuance of shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of future convertible securities, options or warrants could cause substantial dilution to holders of common stock, and the sale of those shares in the market could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The potential dilution from these shares could negatively affect the terms on which we could obtain any future equity financing. Investing in a Technology Stock (Such as Ours) May Involve Greater Risk Than Other Investments Due to Market Conditions, Stock Price Volatility and Other Factors. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations to date, and will likely be subject to wide fluctuations in the future due to: · Quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results · Announcements of technological innovations by us, our customers or competitors · New products or significant design achievements by us or our competitors · General conditions in the markets for the our products or in the electronics industry · The price and availability of products and components · Changes in operating factors including delays of shipments, orders or cancellations · General financial market conditions · Market conditions for technology stocks · Litigation or changes in operating results or estimates by analysts or others · Or other events or factors In addition, potential dilutive effects of future sales of shares of common stock by stockholders and by the Company and subsequent sale of common stock by the holders of warrants and options could have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares. We do not endorse and accept any responsibility for the estimates or recommendations issued by stock research analysts or others from time to time or comments on any electronic chat boards. The public stock markets in general, and technology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many high technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. Low-Price Stocks and Stocks Traded on the OTC Electronic Bulletin Board are Subject to Special Regulations and may have Increased Risk. Our shares of common stock are traded on the OTC Electronic Bulletin Board, an electronic, screen-based trading system operated by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (“NASD”). Securities traded on the OTC Electronic Bulletin Board are, for the most part, thinly traded and are subject to special regulations not imposed on securities listed or traded on the NASDAQ system or on a national securities exchange. As a result, an investor may find it difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the price of, our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our outstanding common stock in the public market could materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. To date, the price of our common stock has been extremely volatile with the sale price fluctuating from a low of $0.07 to a high of $0.135 in the last fiscal year. In addition, our common stock is subject to Rules 15g-1-15g-6 promulgated under the Exchange Act that imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally, a person with assets in excess of $1,000,000, excluding the value of such person’s primary residence, or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 together with his or her spouse). For transactions covered by this rule, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. Consequently, the rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell the Company’s securities and may affect the ability of investors to sell their securities in the secondary market. The SEC has also adopted regulations which define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the regulations require the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a disclosure schedule prepared by the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the penny stock market. The broker-dealer must also disclose the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer’s presumed control over the market. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. 16 Important Factors Related to Forward-Looking Statements and Associated Risks. This prospectus contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act and we intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. These forward-looking statements include our plans and objectives of management for future operations, including plans and objectives relating to the products and our future economic performance. The forward-looking statements included herein are based upon current expectations that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions that we will design, manufacture, market and ship new products on a timely basis, that competitive conditions within the computer and electronic markets will not change materially or adversely, that the computer and electronic markets will continue to experience growth, that demand for the our products will increase, that we will obtain and/or retain existing development partners and key management personnel, that future inventory risks due to shifts in market demand will be minimized, that our forecasts will accurately anticipate market demand and that there will be no material adverse change in our operations or business. Assumptions relating to the foregoing involve judgments with respect, among other things, to future economic, competitive and market conditions and future business decisions, all of which are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of which are beyond our control. Although we believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in forward-looking information will be realized. In addition, as disclosed above, our business and operations both from product sales and licensing are subject to substantial risks which increase the uncertainty inherent in such forward-looking statements. Any of the other factors disclosed above could cause our net sales or net income (or loss), or our growth in net sales or net income (or loss), to differ materially from prior results. Growth in absolute amounts of costs of sales and selling and administrative expenses or the occurrence of extraordinary events could cause actual results to vary materially from the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements. Budgeting and other management decisions are subjective in many respects and thus susceptible to interpretations and periodic revisions based on actual experience and business developments, the impact of which may cause us to alter our marketing, capital expenditure or other budgets, which may in turn affect our results of operations. In light of the significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking information included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that our objectives or plans will be achieved. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 