Item 1A. Risk Factors In connection with the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we wish to caution readers that the following important factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, our actual results and could cause our actual results in 2011 and beyond to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us, or on our behalf. Our business is dependent on worldwide and local economic conditions as well as the condition of the pulp and paper industry. We sell products worldwide primarily to the pulp and paper industry, which is a cyclical industry. Generally, the financial condition of the global pulp and paper industry corresponds to general worldwide economic conditions, as well as to a number of other factors, including pulp and paper production capacity relative to demand in the geographic markets in which we compete. Although global markets appear to be recovering from the extreme disruptions which began in 2008, uncertainty about continuing economic stability remains. Our business and performance was significantly affected by the global economic crisis and would be negatively affected by a return of economic uncertainty. Uncertainty about global and regional economic conditions negatively affected, and may in the future negatively affect, demand for our customers’ products and for our products, especially our capital equipment products. Also, uncertainty regarding economic conditions has caused, and may in the future cause, liquidity and credit issues for many businesses, including our customers in the pulp and paper industry as well as other industries, and may result in their inability to fund projects, capacity expansion plans, and to some extent, routine operations. These conditions have resulted, and may in the future result, in a number of structural changes in the pulp and paper industry, including decreased spending, mill closures, consolidations, and bankruptcies, all of which negatively affect our business, revenue, and profitability. Any renewed financial and economic turmoil affecting the worldwide economy or the banking system and financial markets, in particular, due to political or economic developments could cause the expectations for our business to differ materially in the future. Our financial performance will be negatively impacted if there are delays in customers securing financing or our customers become unable to secure such financing. The inability of our customers to obtain credit may affect our ability to recognize revenue and income, particularly on large capital equipment orders from new customers for which we may require letters of credit. We may also be unable to issue letters of credit to our customers, which are required in some cases to guarantee performance, during periods of economic uncertainty. Paper producers have been, and may in the future be, negatively affected by higher operating costs. Paper companies curtail their capital and operating spending during periods of economic uncertainty and will likely be 7 Table of Contents Kadant Inc. 2010 Annual Report cautious about resuming spending as market conditions improve. As paper companies consolidate operations in response to market weakness, they frequently reduce capacity, increase downtime, defer maintenance and upgrades, and postpone or even cancel capacity addition or expansion projects. It is difficult to accurately forecast our revenues and earnings per share during periods of economic uncertainty. A significant portion of our international sales has, and may in the future, come from China and we operate several manufacturing facilities in China, which exposes us to political, economic, operational and other risks. We have historically had significant revenues from China, operate significant manufacturing facilities in China, and expect to manufacture and source more of our equipment and components from China in the future. As a result, we are exposed to increased risk in the event of economic slowdowns, changes in the policies of the Chinese government, political unrest, unstable economic conditions, or other developments in China or in U.S.-China relations that are adverse to trade, including enactment of protectionist legislation or trade or currency restrictions. For example, the Chinese premier recently announced plans to target slower economic growth in China in order to avoid inflation and to reduce dependency on exports. Such policies may negatively affect our business in China if customers are unable to expand capacity or obtain financing for expansion or improvement projects. In addition, orders from customers in China, particularly for large stock-preparation systems that have been tailored to a customer’s specific requirements, have credit risks higher than we generally incur elsewhere, and some orders are subject to the receipt of financing approvals from the Chinese government. For this reason, we do not record signed contracts from customers in China for large stock-preparation systems as orders until we receive the down payments for such contracts. The timing of the receipt of these orders and the down payments are uncertain and there is no assurance that we will be able to recognize revenue on these contracts. Delays in the receipt of payments and letters of credit affect when revenues can be recognized on these contracts, making it difficult to accurately forecast our future financial performance. We may experience a loss if a contract is cancelled prior to the receipt of a down payment in the event we commence engineering or other work associated with the contract. In addition, we may experience a loss if the contract is cancelled, or the customer does not fulfill its obligations under the contract, prior to the receipt of a letter of credit or final payments covering the remaining balance of the contract. In those instances in which a letter of credit is required, it may represent 80% or more of the total order. We may be unable to expand capacity sufficiently in China to meet current demand. We experienced a large increase in demand for our stock-preparation products in China in the fourth quarter of 2010 with bookings of nearly $36 million in the quarter. We are implementing a program to meet this demand, which includes expanding our manufacturing capacity in China, hiring additional workers, and accelerating investment in capital equipment. In some cases, we may shift production to our other manufacturing plants outside of China. While we believe that we will meet all of our customer commitments, there can be no assurance that we will be successful, which could expose us to contractual penalties. In addition, the shift to higher-cost production facilities may reduce our gross profit margins on these products. Our business and reputation could be damaged by our inability to perform and our financial performance could suffer as a consequence. Commodity or component price increases and significant shortages of commodities and component products may adversely impact our financial results or our ability to meet commitments to customers. We use steel, stainless steel, brass, bronze, and other commodities to manufacture our products. We also use natural gas in the production of our fiber-based granular products. As a result, unanticipated increases in the prices of such commodities could increase our costs more than expected, negatively impacting our business, results of operations and financial condition if we are unable to fully offset the effect of these increased costs through price increases, productivity improvements, or cost reduction programs. 8 Table of Contents Kadant Inc. 2010 Annual Report We rely on suppliers to secure commodity and component products required for the manufacture of our products. A disruption in deliveries to or from suppliers or decreased availability of such components or commodities could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. We believe our sources of raw materials and component products will generally be sufficient for our needs in the foreseeable future. However, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be negatively impacted if supply is insufficient for our operations. We are dependent on two paper mills for the fiber used in the manufacture of our fiber-based granular products. From time to time we have experienced, and may in the future experience, some difficulty obtaining sufficient raw material to operate at optimal production levels. We continue to work with the mills to ensure a stable supply of raw material. To date, we have been able to meet all of our customer delivery requirements, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to meet future delivery requirements. Although we believe our relationships with the mills are good, the mills could decide not to continue to supply sufficient papermaking byproducts, or may not agree to continue to supply such products on commercially reasonable terms. If the mills were unable or unwilling to supply us sufficient fiber, we would be forced to find one or more alternative sources of supply of this raw material. We may be unable to find alternative supplies on commercially reasonable terms or could incur excessive transportation costs if an alternative supplier were found, which would increase our manufacturing costs, and might prevent prices for our products from being competitive or require closure of this business. Our business is subject to economic, currency, political, and other risks associated with international sales and operations. During 2010 and 2009, approximately 58% and 59%, respectively, of our sales were to customers outside the United States, principally in Europe and China. In addition, we operate several manufacturing operations worldwide, including those in China, Europe, Mexico, and Brazil. International revenues and operations are subject to a number of risks, including the following: – agreements may be difficult to enforce and receivables difficult to collect through a foreign country’s legal system, – foreign customers may have longer payment cycles, – foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs, adopt other restrictions on foreign trade, impose currency restrictions or enact other protectionist or anti-trade measures, – worsening economic conditions may result in worker unrest, labor actions, and potential work stoppages, – political unrest, such as that currently occurring in North Africa and the Middle East, may disrupt commercial activities of ours or our customers, – it may be difficult to repatriate funds, due to unfavorable domestic and foreign tax consequences or other restrictions or limitations imposed by foreign governments, and – the protection of intellectual property in foreign countries may be more difficult to enforce. Although we seek to charge our customers in the same currency in which our operating costs are incurred, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may affect product demand and adversely affect the profitability in U.S. dollars of products we provide in international markets where payment for our products and services is made in their local currencies. In addition, our inability to repatriate funds could adversely affect our ability to service our debt obligations. Any of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Furthermore, while some risks can be hedged using derivatives or other financial instruments, or may be insurable, such attempts to mitigate these risks may be costly and not always successful. 9 Table of Contents Kadant Inc. 2010 Annual Report We are subject to intense competition in all our markets. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the markets for our products include quality, price, service, technical expertise, and product performance and innovation. Our competitors include a number of large multinational corporations that may have substantially greater financial, marketing, and other resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their services and products. Competitors’ technologies may prove to be superior to ours. Our current products, those under development, and our ability to develop new technologies may not be sufficient to enable us to compete effectively. Competition, especially in China, has increased as new companies enter the market and existing competitors expand their product lines and manufacturing operations. Adverse changes to the soundness of our suppliers and customers could affect our business and results of operations. All of our businesses are exposed to risk associated with the creditworthiness of our key suppliers and customers, including pulp and paper manufacturers and other industrial customers, many of which may be adversely affected by the volatile conditions in the financial markets, worldwide economic downturns, and difficult economic conditions. These conditions could result in financial instability, bankruptcy, or other adverse effects at any of our suppliers or customers. The consequences of such adverse effects could include the interruption of production at the facilities of our suppliers, the reduction, delay or cancellation of customer orders, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our products, and bankruptcy of customers or other creditors. Any adverse changes to the soundness of our suppliers or customers may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition. Changes in our effective tax rate may impact our results of operations. We derive a significant portion of our revenue and earnings from our international operations, and are subject to income and other taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. A number of factors may increase our effective tax rate, including: increases in tax rates in various jurisdictions; unanticipated decreases in the amount of profit in jurisdictions with low statutory tax rates; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits or our ability to utilize foreign tax credits; and changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates would adversely impact our net income for future periods. We may be required to reorganize our operations in response to changing conditions in the worldwide economy and the pulp and paper industry, and such actions may require significant expenditures and may not be successful. We have undertaken various restructuring measures in response to changing market conditions in the countries in which we operate and in the pulp and paper industry in general, which have affected our business. We may engage in additional cost reduction programs in the future. We may not recoup the costs of programs we have already initiated, or other programs in which we may decide to engage in the future, the costs of which may be significant. In connection with any future plant closures, delays or failures in the transition of production from existing facilities to our other facilities in other geographic regions could also adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, it is difficult to accurately forecast our financial performance given the continuing uncertainly in the global economic environment, and the efforts we have made or may make to align our cost structure may not be sufficient or able to keep pace with rapidly changing business conditions. Our profitability may decline if our restructuring efforts do not sufficiently reduce our future costs and position us to maintain or increase our sales. 10 Table of Contents Kadant Inc. 2010 Annual Report Adverse changes to the soundness of financial institutions could affect us. We have relationships with many financial institutions, including lenders under our credit facilities and insurance underwriters, and from time to time, we execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, such as our interest rate swap arrangements and other hedging transactions. As a consequence of volatility in the financial markets, these financial institutions or counterparties could be adversely affected and we may not be able to access credit facilities in the future, complete transactions as intended, or otherwise obtain the benefit of the arrangements we have entered into with such financial parties, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our debt may adversely affect our cash flow and may restrict our investment opportunities. In 2008, we entered into a five-year unsecured revolving credit facility (2008 Credit Agreement) in the aggregate principal amount of up to $75 million. The 2008 Credit Agreement also includes an uncommitted unsecured incremental borrowing facility of up to an additional $75 million. We had $15 million outstanding under the 2008 Credit Agreement as of January 1, 2011 and we have also borrowed additional amounts under other agreements to fund our operations. We may also obtain additional long-term debt and working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs, which would have the effect of increasing our total leverage. Our indebtedness could have negative consequences, including: – increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, – limiting our ability to obtain additional financing, – limiting our ability to pay dividends on or to repurchase our capital stock, – limiting our ability to complete a merger or an acquisition, – limiting our ability to acquire new products and technologies through acquisitions or licensing agreements, and – limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we compete. Our existing indebtedness bears interest at floating rates and as a result, our interest payment obligations on our indebtedness will increase if interest rates increase. As of January 1, 2011, $17.8 million of our outstanding floating rate debt was hedged through interest rate swap agreements. The unrealized loss associated with these swap agreements was $1.6 million as of January 1, 2011. This unrealized loss represents the estimated amount for which the swap agreements could be settled. The counterparty to the swap agreements could demand an early termination of the swap agreements if we are in default under the 2008 Credit Agreement, or any agreement that amends or replaces the 2008 Credit Agreement in which the counterparty is a member, and we are unable to cure the default. If these swap agreements were terminated prior to the scheduled maturity date and if we were required to pay cash for the value of the swap, we would incur a loss, which would adversely affect our financial results. Our ability to satisfy our obligations and to reduce our total debt depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive, and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows to meet these obligations or to successfully execute our business strategy. The 2008 Credit Agreement includes certain financial covenants and our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default under the 2008 Credit Agreement, the swap agreements, and our other credit facilities, and would have significant negative consequences for our current operations and our future ability to fund our operations and grow our business. If we are unable to service our debt and fund our business, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures or research and development expenditures, seek additional financing or equity capital, restructure or refinance our debt, or sell assets. 11 Table of Contents Kadant Inc. 2010 Annual Report Restrictions in our 2008 Credit Agreement may limit our activities. Our 2008 Credit Agreement contains, and future debt instruments to which we may become subject may contain, restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit us, including restrictions on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: – incur additional indebtedness, – pay dividends on, redeem, or repurchase our capital stock, – make investments, – create liens, – sell assets, – enter into transactions with affiliates, and – consolidate, merge, or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries. We are also required to meet specified financial covenants under the terms of our 2008 Credit Agreement. Our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as currency exchange rates, interest rates, changes in technology, and changes in the level of competition. Our failure to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants may result in an event of default under our 2008 Credit Agreement and other loan obligations, which could permit acceleration of the debt under those instruments and require us to repay the debt before its scheduled due date. If an event of default were to occur, we might not have sufficient funds available to make the payments required under our indebtedness. If we are unable to repay amounts owed under our debt agreements, those lenders may be entitled to foreclose on and sell the collateral that secures our borrowings under the agreements. The inability of Composites LLC to pay claims against it has exposed us to litigation, which if we are unable to successfully defend, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial results. On October 21, 2005, our Composites LLC subsidiary sold substantially all of its assets to a third party and retained certain liabilities associated with the operation of the business prior to the sale, including warranty obligations related to products manufactured prior to the sale date (Retained Liabilities). Composites LLC retained all of the cash proceeds received from the asset sale in 2005 and continued to administer and pay warranty claims from the sale proceeds into the third quarter of 2007, when it announced that it no longer had sufficient funds to honor warranty claims, was unable to pay or process warranty claims, and ceased doing business. Composites LLC, jointly and severally with its parent company Kadant Inc., agreed to indemnify the original buyer and a subsequent purchaser of the business against losses arising from claims associated with the Retained Liabilities. This indemnification obligation is contractually limited to approximately $8.4 million. All activity related to this business is classified in the results of the discontinued operation in our consolidated financial statements. We were previously named as co-defendants, together with Composites LLC and two other defendants, in several state class action complaints and one federal class action complaint filed in 2008 and 2009, as disclosed in our prior filings. These complaints sought to recover damages allegedly associated with the composite building products manufactured by Composites LLC between April 2002 and October 2003. This litigation has been dismissed, in the case of the federal class action, and voluntarily withdrawn without prejudice by the state plaintiffs. We continue to discuss with these plaintiffs potential alternative dispute resolution or other settlement of these matters. There can be no assurance that the parties will reach a resolution on terms satisfactory to the parties, or that these or other plaintiffs will not file new complaints against us or the other parties indemnified by Composites LLC. While we believe any such asserted or possible claims against us or other indemnified parties would be without merit, the cost of litigation and the outcome, including any settlement, could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. 12 Table of Contents Kadant Inc. 2010 Annual Report An increase in the accrual for warranty costs of the discontinued operation adversely affects our consolidated financial results. The discontinued operation has experienced significant liabilities associated with warranty claims related to its composite decking products manufactured prior to the sale of the business in 2005. The accrued warranty costs of the discontinued operation as of January 1, 2011 represents the low end of the estimated range of warranty costs based on the level of claims received before Composites LLC ceased operations and judgments entered against it in litigation. Composites LLC has calculated that the total potential warranty cost ranges from $2.1 million to approximately $13.1 million. The high end of the range represents the estimated maximum level of warranty claims remaining based on the total sales of the products under warranty. On September 30, 2007, the discontinued operation ceased doing business and has no employees or other service providers to collect or process warranty claims. Composites LLC will continue to record adjustments to accrued warranty costs to reflect the minimum amount of the potential range of loss for products under warranty based on any judgments entered against it in litigation, which will adversely affect our consolidated results. Our inability to successfully identify and complete acquisitions or successfully integrate any new or previous acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our strategy includes the acquisition of technologies and businesses that complement or augment our existing products and services. Any such acquisition involves numerous risks that may adversely affect our future financial performance and cash flows. These risks include: – competition with other prospective buyers resulting in our inability to complete an acquisition or in us paying substantial premiums over the fair value of the net assets of the acquired business, – inability to obtain regulatory approval, including antitrust approvals, – difficulty in assimilating operations, technologies, products and the key employees of the acquired business, – inability to maintain existing customers or to sell the products and services of the acquired business to our existing customers, – diversion of management’s attention away from other business concerns, – inability to improve the revenues and profitability or realize the cost savings and synergies expected in the acquisition, – assumption of significant liabilities, some of which may be unknown at the time, – potential future impairment of the value of goodwill and intangible assets acquired, and – identification of internal control deficiencies of the acquired business. In 2008, we recorded a $40.3 million impairment charge to write down the goodwill associated with the stock-preparation reporting unit within our Papermaking Systems segment. We may incur additional impairment charges to write down the value of our goodwill and acquired intangible assets in the future if the assets are not deemed recoverable, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our inability to protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, third parties may claim that we infringe their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expense as a result. We seek patent and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products, and processes because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development process and into the marketplace. We own numerous U.S. and foreign patents, and we intend to file additional applications, as appropriate, for patents covering our products. Patents may not be issued for any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us, and the claims allowed under any issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Any issued patents owned by or licensed to us may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, and the rights under these patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. In addition, 13 Table of Contents Kadant Inc. 2010 Annual Report competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. Intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture increased market share. We could incur substantial costs to defend ourselves in suits brought against us, including for alleged infringement of third party rights, or in suits in which we may assert our intellectual property rights against others. An unfavorable outcome of any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, as our patents expire, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect our products. We cannot be sure the steps we have taken or will take in the future will be adequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information and intellectual property. Of particular concern are developing countries, such as China, where the laws, courts, and administrative agencies may not protect our intellectual property rights as fully as in the United States or Europe. We seek to protect trade secrets and proprietary know-how, in part, through confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees, and consultants. These agreements may be breached, we may not have adequate remedies for any breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors, or our competitors may otherwise gain access to our intellectual property. Our share price will fluctuate. Stock markets in general and our common stock in particular experienced significant price and volume volatility during 2008 and 2009 and may experience significant price and volume volatility from time to time in the future. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions but also to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations, business prospects, or future funding. Given the nature of the markets in which we participate and the impact of accounting standards related to revenue recognition, we may not be able to reliably predict future revenues and profitability, and unexpected changes may cause us to adjust our operations. A large proportion of our costs are fixed, due in part to our significant selling, research and development, and manufacturing costs. Thus, small declines in revenues could disproportionately affect our operating results. Other factors that could affect our share price and quarterly operating results include: – failure of our products to pass contractually agreed upon acceptance tests, which would delay or prohibit recognition of revenues under applicable accounting guidelines, – changes in the assumptions used for revenue recognized under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, – fluctuations in revenues due to customer-initiated delays in product shipments, – failure of a customer, particularly in Asia, to comply with an order’s contractual obligations or inability of a customer to provide financial assurances of performance, – adverse changes in demand for and market acceptance of our products, – competitive pressures resulting in lower sales prices for our products, – adverse changes in the pulp and paper industry, – delays or problems in our introduction of new products, – delays or problems in the manufacture of our products, – our competitors’ announcements of new products, services, or technological innovations, – contractual liabilities incurred by us related to guarantees of our product performance, – increased costs of raw materials or supplies, including the cost of energy, – changes in the timing of product orders, – fluctuations in our effective tax rate, – the operating and share price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us, and – changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions. 14 Table of Contents Kadant Inc. 2010 Annual Report Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, under Delaware law, and in our shareholder rights plan could prevent or delay transactions that our shareholders may favor. Provisions of our charter and bylaws may discourage, delay, or prevent a merger or acquisition that our shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. For example, these provisions: – authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without any need for action by shareholders, – provide for a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms, – require supermajority shareholder voting to effect various amendments to our charter and bylaws, – eliminate the ability of our shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders, – prohibit shareholder action by written consent, and – establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by shareholders at shareholder meetings. In addition, our board of directors adopted a shareholder rights plan in 2001 intended to protect shareholders in the event of an unfair or coercive offer to acquire our company and to provide our board of directors with adequate time to evaluate unsolicited offers. Preferred stock purchase rights have been distributed to our common shareholders pursuant to the rights plan. This rights plan may have anti-takeover effects. The rights plan will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms that our board of directors does not believe are in our best interests and those of our shareholders and may discourage, delay, or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. The shareholder rights plan will expire in July 2011 and our board of directors does not intend to renew it at this time. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 