Item 1A. Risk Factors In connection with the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we wish to caution readers that the following important factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, our actual results and could cause our actual results in 2012 and beyond to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us, or on our behalf. Our business is dependent on worldwide and local economic conditions as well as the condition of the pulp and paper industry. We sell products worldwide primarily to the pulp and paper industry, which is a cyclical industry. Generally, the financial condition of the global pulp and paper industry corresponds to general worldwide economic conditions, as well as to a number of other factors, including pulp and paper production capacity relative to demand in the geographic markets in which we compete. Although global markets appeared to be recovering in recent periods from the extreme disruptions which began in 2008, uncertainty about continuing economic stability and the potential for another recession became heightened in the second half of 2011 and continues into 2012. Uncertainty regarding the European economy due to the risk of sovereign debt defaults by certain European countries and the costs associated with resolving the sovereign debt crisis have negatively affected, and may in the future negatively affect, demand for our customers’ products, and as a consequence, our products and services as well. Our business and financial performance was significantly affected by the global economic crisis in 2008 and 2009 and would be negatively affected by a return of economic uncertainty, either globally or regionally. Uncertainty about global and regional economic conditions negatively affected, and may in the future negatively affect, demand for our customers’ products and for our products, especially our capital equipment products. Also, uncertainty regarding economic conditions has caused, and may in the future cause, liquidity and credit issues for many businesses, including our customers in the pulp and paper industry as well as other industries, and may result in their inability to fund projects, capacity expansion plans, and to some extent, routine operations. These conditions have resulted, and may in the future result, in a number of structural changes in the pulp and paper industry, including decreased spending, mill closures, consolidations, and bankruptcies, all of which negatively affect our business, revenue, and profitability. Any renewed financial and economic turmoil affecting the worldwide economy or the banking system and financial markets, in particular, due to political or economic developments could cause the expectations for our business to differ materially in the future. 7 Table of Contents Kadant Inc. 2011 Annual Report Our financial performance will be negatively impacted if there are delays in customers securing financing or our customers become unable to secure such financing. The inability of our customers to obtain credit may affect our ability to recognize revenue and income, particularly on large capital equipment orders from new customers for which we may require letters of credit. We may also be unable to issue letters of credit to our customers, which are required in some cases to guarantee performance, during periods of economic uncertainty. Paper producers have been, and may in the future be, negatively affected by higher operating costs. Paper companies curtail their capital and operating spending during periods of economic uncertainty and are cautious about resuming spending as market conditions improve. As paper companies consolidate operations in response to market weakness, they frequently reduce capacity, increase downtime, defer maintenance and upgrades, and postpone or even cancel capacity addition or expansion projects. It is difficult to accurately forecast our revenues and earnings per share during periods of economic uncertainty. A significant portion of our international sales has, and may in the future, come from China and we operate several manufacturing facilities in China, which exposes us to political, economic, operational and other risks. We have historically had significant revenues from China, operate significant manufacturing facilities in China, and manufacture and source equipment and components from China. As a result, we are exposed to increased risk in the event of economic slowdowns, changes in the policies of the Chinese government, political unrest, unstable economic conditions, or other developments in China or in U.S.-China relations that are adverse to trade, including enactment of protectionist legislation or trade or currency restrictions. Policies of the Chinese government to target slower economic growth to avoid inflation may negatively affect our business in China if customers are unable to expand capacity or obtain financing for expansion or improvement projects. Our bookings activity from China tends to be more variable than in other geographic regions, as the China pulp and paper industry historically has experienced, and in the future may experience, periods of significant capacity expansion to meet demand followed by a period of stagnant activity while overcapacity is absorbed. These cycles result in periods of significant bookings activity for our capital products and increased revenues followed by a significant decrease in bookings or potential delays in shipments and order placements by our customers as they attempt to balance supply and demand. As a consequence, our bookings and revenues in China tend to be uneven and difficult to predict. Paper companies in China are scheduled to bring online significant capacity additions in 2012; however, this capacity growth has been uneven and the larger paper producers have delayed, and may in the future delay, additional new capacity start-ups in reaction to softer market conditions. In general, as significant capacity additions come online and the economic growth rate slows, paper producers have often deferred and could in the future defer further investments or the delivery of previously-ordered equipment until the market absorbs the new production. This could negatively affect our bookings and revenues in China. In addition, orders from customers in China, particularly for large stock-preparation systems that have been tailored to a customer’s specific requirements, have credit risks higher than we generally incur elsewhere, and some orders are subject to the receipt of financing approvals from the Chinese government. For this reason, we do not record signed contracts from customers in China for large stock-preparation systems as orders until we receive the down payments for such contracts. The timing of the receipt of these orders and the down payments are uncertain and there is no assurance that we will be able to recognize revenue on these contracts. Delays in the receipt of payments and letters of credit affect when revenues can be recognized on these contracts, making it difficult to accurately forecast our future financial performance. We may experience a loss if a contract is cancelled prior to the receipt of a down payment in the event we commence engineering or other work associated with the contract. We currently have a larger inventory than usual awaiting shipment to customers. We could have excess and obsolete inventory if contracts are cancelled and we cannot re-sell the equipment. In addition, we may experience a loss if the contract is cancelled, or the customer does not fulfill its obligations under the contract, prior to the receipt of a letter of credit or final payments covering the remaining balance of the contract. In those instances in which a letter of credit is required, it may represent 80% or more of the total order. 8 Table of Contents Kadant Inc. 2011 Annual Report We recognize revenue for certain capital orders in China using the completed contract method. In some cases, we will be unable to recognize any revenue on completed orders until after installation or acceptance of the equipment. Furthermore, customers in China often demand that deliveries of previously-ordered equipment be delayed to future periods for any number of reasons. These factors have caused and will in the future cause our revenues recognized in China to vary greatly from period to period and be difficult to predict. We may be unable to adjust operating costs and manufacturing sufficiently in China to meet demand. The demand for our products in China can vary significantly from period to period. For example, we experienced a large increase in demand for our stock-preparation products in China in late 2010 and early 2011, which was followed by lower bookings levels in the second half of 2011. In periods of increased demand we may hire additional workers and may shift some production to our other manufacturing plants outside of China. If we are unable to meet increased demand we could be exposed to contractual penalties and our business and reputation could suffer. In addition, shifting to higher-cost production facilities outside China generally reduces our gross profit margins on these products. In periods of lower demand, we may seek to furlough or lay off workers or consolidate production in our manufacturing plants in China. We may be unable to adjust our operations to meet demand for a number of reasons, including our inability to obtain necessary government or labor union approvals. Our financial performance could suffer if we were unable to sufficiently adjust our operating costs or manufacturing to meet demand. Commodity or component price increases and significant shortages of commodities and component products may adversely impact our financial results or our ability to meet commitments to customers. We use steel, stainless steel, brass, bronze, and other commodities to manufacture our products. We also use natural gas in the production of our fiber-based granular products. As a result, unanticipated increases in the prices of such commodities could increase our costs more than expected, negatively impacting our business, results of operations and financial condition if we are unable to fully offset the effect of these increased costs through price increases, productivity improvements, or cost reduction programs. We rely on suppliers to secure commodity and component products required for the manufacture of our products. A disruption in deliveries to or from suppliers or decreased availability of such components or commodities could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. We believe our sources of raw materials and component products will generally be sufficient for our needs in the foreseeable future. However, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be negatively impacted if supply is insufficient for our operations. We are dependent on two paper mills for the fiber used in the manufacture of our fiber-based granular products. From time to time we have experienced, and may in the future experience, some difficulty obtaining sufficient raw material to operate at optimal production levels. We continue to work with the mills to ensure a stable supply of raw material. To date, we have been able to meet all of our customer delivery requirements, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to meet future delivery requirements. Although we believe our relationships with the mills are good, the mills could decide not to continue to supply sufficient papermaking byproducts, or may not agree to continue to supply such products on commercially reasonable terms. If the mills were unable or unwilling to supply us sufficient fiber, we would be forced to find one or more alternative sources of supply of this raw material. We may be unable to find alternative supplies on commercially reasonable terms or could incur excessive transportation costs if an alternative supplier were found, which would increase our manufacturing costs, and might prevent prices for our products from being competitive or require closure of this business. 9 Table of Contents Kadant Inc. 2011 Annual Report Our business is subject to economic, currency, political, and other risks associated with international sales and operations. During 2011 and 2010, approximately 63% and 58%, respectively, of our sales were to customers outside the United States, principally in Europe and China. In addition, we operate several manufacturing operations worldwide, including those in China, Europe, Mexico, and Brazil. International revenues and operations are subject to a number of risks, including the following: – agreements may be difficult to enforce and receivables difficult to collect through a foreign country’s legal system, – foreign customers may have longer payment cycles, – foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs, adopt other restrictions on foreign trade, impose currency restrictions or enact other protectionist or anti-trade measures, – worsening economic conditions may result in worker unrest, labor actions, and potential work stoppages, – political unrest, such as that currently occurring in North Africa and the Middle East, may disrupt commercial activities of ours or our customers, – it may be difficult to repatriate funds, due to unfavorable domestic and foreign tax consequences or other restrictions or limitations imposed by foreign governments, and – the protection of intellectual property in foreign countries may be more difficult to enforce. Although we seek to charge our customers in the same currency in which our operating costs are incurred, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may affect product demand and adversely affect the profitability in U.S. dollars of products we provide in international markets. In addition, our inability to repatriate funds could adversely affect our ability to service our debt obligations. Any of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Furthermore, while some risks can be hedged using derivatives or other financial instruments, or may be insurable, such attempts to mitigate these risks may be costly and not always successful. We are subject to intense competition in all our markets. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the markets for our products include quality, price, service, technical expertise, and product performance and innovation. Our competitors include a number of large multinational corporations that may have substantially greater financial, marketing, and other resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their services and products. Competitors’ technologies may prove to be superior to ours. Our current products, those under development, and our ability to develop new technologies may not be sufficient to enable us to compete effectively. Competition, especially in China, has increased as new companies enter the market and existing competitors expand their product lines and manufacturing operations. Adverse changes to the soundness of our suppliers and customers could affect our business and results of operations. All of our businesses are exposed to risk associated with the creditworthiness of our key suppliers and customers, including pulp and paper manufacturers and other industrial customers, many of which may be adversely affected by volatile conditions in the financial markets, worldwide economic downturns, and difficult economic conditions. These conditions could result in financial instability, bankruptcy, or other adverse effects at any of our suppliers or customers. The consequences of such adverse effects could include the interruption of production at the facilities of our suppliers, the reduction, delay or cancellation of customer orders, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our products, and bankruptcy of customers or other creditors. Any adverse changes to the soundness of our suppliers or customers may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents Kadant Inc. 2011 Annual Report Changes in our effective tax rate may impact our results of operations. We derive a significant portion of our revenue and earnings from our international operations, and are subject to income and other taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. A number of factors may increase our effective tax rate, including: increases in tax rates in various jurisdictions; unanticipated decreases in the amount of profit in jurisdictions with low statutory tax rates; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits or our ability to utilize foreign tax credits; and changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates would adversely impact our net income for future periods. We may be required to reorganize our operations in response to changing conditions in the worldwide economy and the pulp and paper industry, and such actions may require significant expenditures and may not be successful. We have undertaken various restructuring measures in the past in response to changing market conditions in the countries in which we operate and in the pulp and paper industry in general, which have affected our business. We may engage in additional cost reduction programs in the future. We may not recoup the costs of programs we have already initiated, or other programs in which we may decide to engage in the future, the costs of which may be significant. In connection with any future plant closures, delays or failures in the transition of production from existing facilities to our other facilities in other geographic regions could also adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, it is difficult to accurately forecast our financial performance in periods of economic uncertainty in a region or globally, and the efforts we have made or may make to align our cost structure may not be sufficient or able to keep pace with rapidly changing business conditions. Our profitability may decline if our restructuring efforts do not sufficiently reduce our future costs and position us to maintain or increase our sales. Adverse changes to the soundness of financial institutions could affect us. We have relationships with many financial institutions, including lenders under our credit facilities and insurance underwriters, and from time to time, we execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, such as our interest rate swap arrangements and other hedging transactions. As a consequence of volatility in the financial markets, these financial institutions or counterparties could be adversely affected and we may not be able to access credit facilities in the future, complete transactions as intended, or otherwise obtain the benefit of the arrangements we have entered into with such financial parties, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our debt may adversely affect our cash flow and may restrict our investment opportunities. In 2008, we entered into a five-year unsecured revolving credit facility (2008 Credit Agreement) in the aggregate principal amount of up to $75 million. The 2008 Credit Agreement also includes an uncommitted unsecured incremental borrowing facility of up to an additional $75 million. We had $5 million outstanding under the 2008 Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2011 and we have also borrowed additional amounts under other agreements to fund our operations. We may also obtain additional long-term debt and working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs, which would have the effect of increasing our total leverage. Our indebtedness could have negative consequences, including: – increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, – limiting our ability to obtain additional financing, – limiting our ability to pay dividends on or to repurchase our capital stock, – limiting our ability to complete a merger or an acquisition, – limiting our ability to acquire new products and technologies through acquisitions or licensing agreements, and – limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we compete. 11 Table of Contents Kadant Inc. 2011 Annual Report Our existing indebtedness bears interest at floating rates and as a result, our interest payment obligations on our indebtedness will increase if interest rates increase. As of December 31, 2011, all of our outstanding floating rate debt was hedged through interest rate swap agreements. The unrealized loss associated with these swap agreements was $1.4 million as of December 31, 2011. This unrealized loss represents the estimated amount for which the swap agreements could be settled. The counterparty to the swap agreements could demand an early termination of the swap agreements if we are in default under the 2008 Credit Agreement, or any agreement that amends or replaces the 2008 Credit Agreement in which the counterparty is a member, and we are unable to cure the default. If these swap agreements were terminated prior to the scheduled maturity date and if we were required to pay cash for the value of the swap, we would incur a loss, which would adversely affect our financial results. Our ability to satisfy our obligations and to reduce our total debt depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive, and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows to meet these obligations or to successfully execute our business strategy. The 2008 Credit Agreement includes certain financial covenants, and our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default under the 2008 Credit Agreement, the swap agreements, and our other credit facilities, and would have significant negative consequences for our current operations and our future ability to fund our operations and grow our business. If we are unable to service our debt and fund our business, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures or research and development expenditures, seek additional financing or equity capital, restructure or refinance our debt, or sell assets. Restrictions in our 2008 Credit Agreement may limit our activities. Our 2008 Credit Agreement contains, and future debt instruments to which we may become subject may contain, restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit us, including restrictions on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: – incur additional indebtedness, – pay dividends on, redeem, or repurchase our capital stock, – make investments, – create liens, – sell assets, – enter into transactions with affiliates, and – consolidate, merge, or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries. We are also required to meet specified financial covenants under the terms of our 2008 Credit Agreement. Our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as currency exchange rates, interest rates, changes in technology, and changes in the level of competition. Our failure to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants may result in an event of default under our 2008 Credit Agreement and other loan obligations, which could permit acceleration of the debt under those instruments and require us to repay the debt before its scheduled due date. If an event of default were to occur, we might not have sufficient funds available to make the payments required under our indebtedness. If we are unable to repay amounts owed under our debt agreements, those lenders may be entitled to foreclose on and sell the collateral that secures our borrowings under the agreements. An increase in our reserve for claims to be paid in litigation involving our composites building products business could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial results. In 2005, our Composites LLC subsidiary sold substantially all of its assets to a third party and retained certain liabilities associated with the operation of the business prior to the sale, including warranty obligations related to products manufactured prior to the sale date (Retained Liabilities). Composites LLC, jointly and severally with its parent company Kadant Inc., agreed to indemnify the original buyer and a subsequent 12 Table of Contents Kadant Inc. 2011 Annual Report purchaser of the business against losses arising from claims associated with the Retained Liabilities. This indemnification obligation is contractually limited to approximately $8.4 million. All activity related to this business is classified in the results of the discontinued operation in our consolidated financial statements. In October 2011, we, our Composites LLC subsidiary, and other co-defendants entered into a nationwide class action settlement regarding allegedly defective composite building products manufactured by Composites LLC between April 2002 and October 2003, which was filed and approved in Connecticut state court. Under the settlement agreement, we have agreed to provide reimbursement up to a cap of $5.0 million in the aggregate to eligible settlement class members who submit a proof of claim, documenting, among other matters, original proof of purchase and degradation. In connection with the settlement agreement, we and the other co-defendants have not admitted any wrongdoing, any violation of any statute or law, or the truth of any claims or allegations of the plaintiffs. As of year-end 2011, we accrued $2.6 million for the payment of claims under the settlement. If the actual claims submitted and approved under the settlement agreement exceed the amount of this reserve, we will reflect the amount of the additional claims paid in the results of the discontinued operation in future periods, up to a maximum of $5.0 million as agreed in the settlement agreement. Any increases in the amount of accrued claims beyond the amount of the reserve would adversely affect our consolidated financial results. Our inability to successfully identify and complete acquisitions or successfully integrate any new or previous acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our strategy includes the acquisition of technologies and businesses that complement or augment our existing products and services. Any such acquisition involves numerous risks that may adversely affect our future financial performance and cash flows. These risks include: – competition with other prospective buyers resulting in our inability to complete an acquisition or in us paying substantial premiums over the fair value of the net assets of the acquired business, – inability to obtain regulatory approval, including antitrust approvals, – difficulty in assimilating operations, technologies, products and the key employees of the acquired business, – inability to maintain existing customers or to sell the products and services of the acquired business to our existing customers, – diversion of management’s attention away from other business concerns, – inability to improve the revenues and profitability or realize the cost savings and synergies expected of the acquisition, – assumption of significant liabilities, some of which may be unknown at the time, – potential future impairment of the value of goodwill and intangible assets acquired, and – identification of internal control deficiencies of the acquired business. In 2008, we recorded a $40.3 million impairment charge to write down the goodwill associated with the stock-preparation reporting unit within our Papermaking Systems segment. We may incur additional impairment charges to write down the value of our goodwill and acquired intangible assets in the future if the assets are not deemed recoverable, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our inability to protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, third parties may claim that we infringe their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expense as a result. We seek patent and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products, and processes because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development process and into the marketplace. We own numerous U.S. and foreign patents, and we intend to file additional applications, as appropriate, for patents covering our products. Patents may not be issued for any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us, and the claims allowed under any issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Any issued patents owned by or licensed to us may be challenged, invalidated, 13 Table of Contents Kadant Inc. 2011 Annual Report or circumvented, and the rights under these patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. Intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture increased market share. We could incur substantial costs to defend ourselves in suits brought against us, including for alleged infringement of third party rights, or in suits in which we may assert our intellectual property rights against others. An unfavorable outcome of any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, as our patents expire, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect our products. We cannot be sure the steps we have taken or will take in the future will be adequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information and intellectual property. Of particular concern are developing countries, such as China, where the laws, courts, and administrative agencies may not protect our intellectual property rights as fully as in the United States or Europe. We seek to protect trade secrets and proprietary know-how, in part, through confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees, and consultants. These agreements may be breached, we may not have adequate remedies for any breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors, or our competitors may otherwise gain access to our intellectual property. Failure of our information systems or breaches of data security could impact our business. We operate a geographically dispersed business and rely on the electronic storage and transmission of proprietary and confidential information, including technical and financial information, among our operations, customers and suppliers. In addition, for some of our operations, we rely on information systems controlled by third parties. System failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security could limit our ability to conduct business as normal, including our ability to communicate and transact business with our customers and suppliers; result in the loss or misuse of this information, the loss of business or customers, or damage to our brand or reputation; or interrupt or delay reporting our financial results. Such system failures or unauthorized access could be caused by external theft or attack, misconduct by our employees, suppliers, or competitors, or natural disasters. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. Our share price fluctuates and experiences price and volume volatility. Stock markets in general and our common stock in particular experienced significant price and volume volatility in 2008 and 2009, have experienced significant volatility in the third and fourth quarters of 2011, and may experience significant price and volume volatility from time to time in the future. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions but also to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations, business prospects, or future funding. Given the nature of the markets in which we participate and the impact of accounting standards related to revenue recognition, we may not be able to reliably predict future revenues and profitability, and unexpected changes may cause us to adjust our operations. A large proportion of our costs are fixed, due in part to our significant selling, research and development, and manufacturing costs. Thus, small declines in revenues could disproportionately affect our operating results. Other factors that could affect our share price and quarterly operating results include: – failure of our products to pass contractually agreed upon acceptance tests, which would delay or prohibit recognition of revenues under applicable accounting guidelines, – changes in the assumptions used for revenue recognized under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, – fluctuations in revenues due to customer-initiated delays in product shipments, – failure of a customer, particularly in Asia, to comply with an order’s contractual obligations or inability of a customer to provide financial assurances of performance, – adverse changes in demand for and market acceptance of our products, – competitive pressures resulting in lower sales prices for our products, – adverse changes in the pulp and paper industry, 14 Table of Contents Kadant Inc. 2011 Annual Report – delays or problems in our introduction of new products, – delays or problems in the manufacture of our products, – our competitors’ announcements of new products, services, or technological innovations, – contractual liabilities incurred by us related to guarantees of our product performance, – increased costs of raw materials or supplies, including the cost of energy, – changes in the timing of product orders, – impact of new acquisition accounting, including the treatment of acquisition and restructuring costs as period costs, – fluctuations in our effective tax rate, – the operating and share price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us, and – changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could prevent or delay transactions that our shareholders may favor. Provisions of our charter and bylaws may discourage, delay, or prevent a merger or acquisition that our shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. For example, these provisions: – authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without any need for action by shareholders, – provide for a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms, – require supermajority shareholder voting to effect various amendments to our charter and bylaws, – eliminate the ability of our shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders, – prohibit shareholder action by written consent, and – establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by shareholders at shareholder meetings. Prior to July 2011, we had a shareholder rights plan, which may have had anti-takeover effects under certain circumstances. This shareholder rights plan expired by its terms in July 2011 and was not renewed by our board of directors. However, our board of directors could adopt a new shareholder rights plan in the future that could have anti-takeover effects and might discourage, delay, or prevent a merger or acquisition that our board of directors does not believe is in our best interests and those of our shareholders, including transactions in which shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 