Item 1A. Risk Factors In connection with the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we wish to caution readers that the following important factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, our actual results and could cause our actual results in 2007 and beyond to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us, or on our behalf. Our business is dependent on the condition of the pulp and paper industry. We sell products primarily to the pulp and paper industry, which is a cyclical industry. Generally, the financial condition of the global pulp and paper industry corresponds to the condition of the general economy, as well as to a number of other factors, including pulp and paper production capacity relative to demand. In recent years, the paper industry in certain geographic regions, notably Europe and North America, has undergone a number of structural changes, including decreased spending, mill closures, consolidations, and bankruptcies, all of which have adversely affected our business. In addition, paper producers have been and continue to be negatively affected by higher operating costs, especially higher energy and chemical costs. We believe paper companies are still cautious about increasing their capital and operating spending in the current market environment. As paper companies consolidate in response to market weakness, they frequently reduce capacity and postpone or even cancel capacity addition or expansion projects. These actions can adversely affect our revenue and profitability globally or in a particular region or product line. A significant portion of our international sales has, and may in the future, come from China. We operate several manufacturing facilities in China. In 2006, we experienced a significant increase in revenues from China and acquired another manufacturing facility in Jining, China. Through our acquisition of Kadant Johnson in May 2005, we also have a manufacturing operation in Wuxi, China. We plan to begin manufacturing accessory and water management products in China for the Chinese market in 2007. During 2006 and 2005, approximately $71.3 million, or 21%, and $29.2 million, or 12%, respectively, of our revenues were to customers in China. Our manufacturing facilities in China, as well as the significant level of revenues from China, expose us to increased risk in the event of changes in the policies of the Chinese government, political unrest, unstable economic conditions, or other developments in China or in U.S.-China relations that are adverse to trade, including enactment of protectionist legislation or trade or currency restrictions. In addition, orders from customers in China, particularly for large stock-preparation systems that have been tailored to a customer’s specific requirements, have credit risks higher than we generally incur elsewhere and some orders are subject to the receipt of financing approvals from the Chinese government. For this reason, we do not record signed contracts from customers in China for large stock-preparation systems as orders until the down payments for such contracts are received. The timing of the receipt of these orders and the down payments are uncertain and there is no assurance that we will be able to recognize revenue on these contracts. In addition, we may experience a loss if the contract is cancelled prior to the receipt of a down payment in the event we commence engineering or other work associated with the contract. 8 Table of Contents Kadant Inc. 2006 Annual Report Our business is subject to economic, currency, political, and other risks associated with international sales and operations. During 2006 and 2005, approximately 61% and 60%, respectively, of our sales were to customers outside the United States, principally in China and Europe. In addition, we operate several manufacturing operations worldwide, including in China, Mexico, and Brazil. International revenues and operations are subject to a number of risks, including the following: – agreements may be difficult to enforce and receivables difficult to collect through a foreign country’s legal system; – foreign customers may have longer payment cycles; – foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs, or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade; and – it may be difficult to repatriate funds, due to unfavorable tax consequences or other restrictions or limitations imposed by foreign governments. – the protection of intellectual property in foreign countries may be more difficult to enforce. Although we seek to charge our customers in the same currency in which our operating costs are incurred, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may affect product demand and adversely affect the profitability in U.S. dollars of products we provide in international markets where payment for our products and services is made in their local currencies. In addition, our inability to repatriate funds could adversely affect our ability to service our debt obligations. Any of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We are subject to intense competition in all our markets. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the markets for our products include quality, price, service, technical expertise, and product innovation. Our competitors include a number of large multinational corporations that may have substantially greater financial, marketing, and other resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their services and products. Competitors’ technologies may prove to be superior to ours. Our current products, those under development, and our ability to develop new technologies may not be sufficient to enable us to compete effectively. Competition, especially in China, has increased as new companies enter the market and existing competitors expand their product lines and manufacturing operations. Our debt may adversely affect our cash flow and may restrict our investment opportunities. In 2005, we entered into a Credit Agreement, as subsequently amended, consisting of a $60 million five-year term loan and a $35 million revolver and borrowed $60 million to fund the acquisition of Kadant Johnson under the term loan. We have also borrowed additional amounts to fund acquisitions and grow our business, and may also obtain additional long-term debt and working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs, which would have the effect of increasing our total leverage. Our leverage could have negative consequences, including: – increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, – limiting our ability to obtain additional financing, – limiting our ability to pay dividends on or to repurchase our capital stock, – limiting our ability to acquire new products and technologies through acquisitions or licensing agreements, and – limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we compete. 9 Table of Contents Kadant Inc. 2006 Annual Report Our existing indebtedness bears interest at floating rates and as a result, our interest payment obligations on our indebtedness will increase if interest rates increase. To reduce the exposure to floating rates, $37.9 million, or 70%, of our outstanding floating rate debt as of December 30, 2006 was hedged through interest rate swap agreements. Our ability to satisfy our obligations and to reduce our total debt depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive, and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows to meet these obligations or to successfully execute our business strategy. If we are unable to service our debt and fund our business, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures or research and development expenditures, seek additional financing or equity capital, restructure or refinance our debt, or sell assets. We may not be able to obtain additional financing or refinance existing debt or sell assets on terms acceptable to us or at all. Restrictions in our Credit Agreement may limit our activities. Our Credit Agreement contains, and future debt instruments to which we may become subject may contain, restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit us, including restrictions on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: – incur additional indebtedness, – pay dividends on, redeem, or repurchase our capital stock, – make investments, – create liens, – sell assets, – enter into transactions with affiliates, and – consolidate, merge, or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries. We are also required to meet specified financial ratios under the terms of our Credit Agreement. Our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, changes in technology, and changes in the level of competition. Our failure to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants may result in an event of default under our Credit Agreement and other loan obligations, which could permit acceleration of the debt under those instruments and require us to repay the debt before its scheduled due date. If an event of default occurs, we may not have sufficient funds available to make the required payments under our indebtedness. If we are unable to repay amounts owed under our debt agreements, those lenders may be entitled to foreclose on and sell the collateral that secures our borrowings under the agreements. Future warranty claims associated with the discontinued operation may exceed the warranty reserve and the assets of the discontinued operation. On October 21, 2005, Composites LLC sold its composites business, but retained the warranty obligation associated with products manufactured prior to the sale date. All future activity associated with this warranty obligation is classified in the results of the discontinued operation in our consolidated financial statements. The discontinued operation has experienced significant liabilities associated with warranty claims related to its composite decking products manufactured prior to the sale date. Our consolidated results will continue to be impacted by these warranty obligations and the claims may exceed the assets of the discontinued operation. The assets and liabilities of the discontinued operation are held in our Composites LLC subsidiary. During the third quarter of 2006, Composites LLC concluded that the highly subjective nature of the assumptions used in estimating the warranty obligation were not accurately predicting the actual level of warranty claims making it no longer possible to calculate a reasonable estimate of the future level of potential warranty claims. Accordingly, as no amount within the total range of loss represents a best estimate of the 10 Table of Contents Kadant Inc. 2006 Annual Report ultimate loss to be recorded, we are required under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 5, “Accounting for Contingencies” to record the minimum amount of the potential range of loss as the warranty obligation in our consolidated results. The warranty obligation as of December 30, 2006 represents the low end of the estimated range of warranty reserve required based on the level of claims processed to date. The total potential warranty cost ranges from $1.1 million to approximately $15.6 million. The high end of the range represents the estimated maximum level of warranty claims remaining based on the total sales of the products under warranty. Going forward, adjustments to the warranty obligation will be recorded to reflect the minimum amount of the potential range of loss for products under warranty which will adversely affect our consolidated results. Our inability to successfully identify and complete acquisitions or successfully integrate any new or previous acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our strategy includes the acquisition of technologies and businesses that complement or augment our existing products and services. Our most recent acquisition was the Kadant Jining acquisition in June 2006. Any such acquisition involves numerous risks that may adversely affect our future financial performance and cash flows. These risks include: – competition with other prospective buyers may result in our inability to complete an acquisition or in us paying substantial premiums over the fair value of the net assets of the acquired business, – inability to obtain regulatory approval, including antitrust approvals, – difficulty in assimilating operations, technologies, products and the key employees of the acquired business, – inability to maintain existing customers or to sell the products and services of the acquired business to our existing customers, – diversion of management’s attention away from other business concerns, – inability to improve the revenues, profitability or realize the cost savings and synergies expected in the acquisition, – assumption of significant liabilities, some of which may be unknown at the time, – potential future impairment of the value of goodwill and intangible assets acquired, and – identification of internal control deficiencies of the acquired business. We may be required to reorganize our operations in response to changing conditions in the paper industry, and such actions may require significant expenditures and may not be successful. In the past few years, we have undertaken various restructuring measures in response to changing market conditions in the paper industry. For example, in 2004 we incurred costs of approximately $9.2 million in connection with the restructuring of our subsidiary in France. We may engage in additional cost reduction programs in the future. We may not recoup the costs of programs we have already initiated, or other programs we may decide to engage in the future, the costs of which may be significant. In connection with any future plant closures, delays or failures in the transition of production from existing facilities to our other facilities in other geographic regions could also adversely affect our financial operations. In addition, our profitability may decline if our restructuring efforts do not sufficiently reduce our future costs while at the same time positioning us to maintain or increase our sales. Our fiber-based products business is subject to a number of factors that may adversely influence its profitability, including high costs of natural gas and dependence on a few suppliers of raw materials. We use natural gas in the production of our fiber-based granular products, the price of which is subject to fluctuation. We seek to manage our exposure to natural gas price fluctuations by entering into short-term forward contracts to purchase specified quantities of natural gas from a supplier. We may not be able to effectively 11 Table of Contents Kadant Inc. 2006 Annual Report manage our exposure to natural gas price fluctuations. Although the cost of natural gas has fallen recently, we may not realize the benefit of lower prices due to the short-term forward contracts we have entered into. Higher costs of natural gas will adversely affect our consolidated results if we are unable to effectively manage our exposure or pass these costs on to customers in the form of surcharges. We are dependent on two paper mills for the fiber used in the manufacture of our fiber-based granular products. These mills have the exclusive right to supply the papermaking byproducts used in the manufacturing process. Due to process changes at the mills, we have experienced some difficulty obtaining sufficient raw material to operate at optimal production levels. We continue to work with the mills to ensure a stable supply of raw material. To date, we have been able to meet all of our customer delivery requirements, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to meet future delivery requirements. Although we believe our relationship with the mills is good, the mills could decide not to renew the contract when it expires at the end of 2007, or may not agree to renew on commercially reasonable terms. If the mills were unable or unwilling to supply us sufficient fiber, we would be forced to find an alternative supply for this raw material. We may be unable to find an alternative supply on commercially reasonable terms or could incur excessive transportation costs if an alternative supplier were found, which would increase our manufacturing costs and might prevent prices for our products from being competitive. Our inability to protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, third parties may claim that we infringe their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expense as a result. We seek patent and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products, and processes because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development process and into the marketplace. We own numerous U.S. and foreign patents, and we intend to file additional applications, as appropriate, for patents covering our products. Patents may not be issued for any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us, and the claims allowed under any issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Any issued patents owned by or licensed to us may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, and the rights under these patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. Intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture increased market share. We could incur substantial costs to defend ourselves in suits brought against us, including for alleged infringement of third party rights, or in suits in which we may assert our intellectual property rights against others. An unfavorable outcome of any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, as our patents expire, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect our products. We cannot be sure the steps we have taken or will take in the future will be adequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information and intellectual property. Of particular concern are developing economies such as China, where the laws, courts, and administrative agencies may not protect our intellectual property rights as fully as in other countries. We seek to protect trade secrets and proprietary know-how, in part, through confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees, and consultants. These agreements may be breached, we may not have adequate remedies for any breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors or our competitors may otherwise gain access to our intellectual property. 12 Table of Contents Kadant Inc. 2006 Annual Report Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may cause our stock price to decline. Given the nature of the markets in which we participate and the effect of Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 104, “Revenue Recognition,” we may not be able to reliably predict future revenues and profitability, and unexpected changes may cause us to adjust our operations. A large proportion of our costs are fixed, due in part to our significant selling, research and development, and manufacturing costs. Thus, small declines in revenues could disproportionately affect our operating results. Other factors that could affect our quarterly operating results include: – failure of our products to pass contractually agreed upon acceptance tests, which would delay or prohibit recognition of revenues under SAB No. 104, – failure of a customer, particularly in China, to comply with an order’s contractual obligations, – adverse changes in demand for and market acceptance of our products, – competitive pressures resulting in lower sales prices of our products, – adverse changes in the pulp and paper industry, – delays or problems in our introduction of new products, – delays or problems in the manufacture of our products, – our competitors’ announcements of new products, services, or technological innovations, – contractual liabilities incurred by us related to guarantees of our product performance, – increased costs of raw materials or supplies, including the cost of energy, – changes in the timing of product orders, and – fluctuations in our effective tax rate. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, under Delaware law, and in our shareholder rights plan could prevent or delay transactions that our shareholders may favor. Provisions of our charter and bylaws may discourage, delay, or prevent a merger or acquisition that our shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. For example, these provisions: – authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without any need for action by shareholders, – provide for a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms, – require supermajority shareholder voting to effect various amendments to our charter and bylaws, – eliminate the ability of our shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders, – prohibit shareholder action by written consent, and – establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by shareholders at shareholder meetings. In addition, our board of directors has adopted a shareholder rights plan intended to protect shareholders in the event of an unfair or coercive offer to acquire our company and to provide our board of directors with adequate time to evaluate unsolicited offers. Preferred stock purchase rights have been distributed to our common shareholders pursuant to the rights plan. This rights plan may have anti-takeover effects. The rights plan will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms that our board of directors does not believe are in our best interests and those of our shareholders and may discourage, delay, or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 13 Table of Contents Kadant Inc. 2006 Annual Report 