ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Note on Forward Looking Statements In addition to the other information in this annual report the factors listed below should be considered in evaluating our business and prospects. This annual report contains a number of forward-looking statements that reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including those discussed below and elsewhere herein, that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or those anticipated. In this report, the words "anticipates," "believes," "expects," "intends," "future" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned to consider the specific factors described below and not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained herein, which speak only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to publicly revise these forward-looking statements, to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date hereof. Financial Risks We Have a History of Losses and May Incur Future Losses. We have incurred significant operating losses in prior fiscal years and as of the fiscal year ended and March 31, 2006 we had an accumulated deficit of $77.2 million. We had losses of approximately $3.1 million, $2.4 million and $2.5 million in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. To date, we have not achieved profitability and given the level of operating expenditures and the uncertainty of revenues and margins, we will continue to incur losses and negative cash flows in future periods. The failure to obtain sufficient revenues and margins to support operating expenses could harm our business. We do not Anticipate Paying Dividends. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. An investment in our common stock, therefore, may be more suitable for an investor that is seeking capital appreciation rather than current yield and, as a consequence, may be more speculative. Accordingly, investors should not purchase our common stock with an expectation of receiving regular dividends. We Expect Our Operating Results to Fluctuate Significantly - Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and we expect that they will continue to fluctuate in the future. This fluctuation is a result of a variety of factors, including the following: o Unpredictable demand and pricing for our contract development services o Market acceptance of our business customers' products by end users o Uncertainties with respect to future customer product orders, their timing and the margins to be received, if any o Fluctuations in operating costs o Changes in research and development costs o Changes in general economic conditions o Changes in technology o Short product lifecycles We May Experience Product Delays, Cost Overruns and Errors Which Could Adversely Affect our Operating Performance and Ability to Remain Competitive. We have experienced development delays and cost overruns associated with contract development services in the past. We may experience additional delays and cost overruns on current projects or future projects. Future delays and cost overruns could adversely affect our financial results and could affect our ability to respond to technological changes, evolving industry standards, competitive developments or customer requirements. Our technology, the results of our contract services and the products produced for our customers could contain errors that could cause delays, order cancellations, contract terminations, adverse publicity, reduced market acceptance of products, or lawsuits by our customers or others who have acquired our products, including customers branded products. 12 We Need to Obtain Additional Financing to Continue Operating our Business. We believe that cash on hand and proceeds from existing development and production contracts and product sales, are not sufficient to meet cash requirements for the next twelve months. We anticipate the need to raise additional funds to: o Finance working capital requirements o Pay for increased operating expenses or shortfalls in anticipated revenues o Fund increases in research and development costs o Develop new technology, products or services o Respond to competitive pressures o Support strategic and industry relationships o Fund the production and marketing of our products and services We cannot assure you that such additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available to us then we may not be able to continue operations or take advantage of opportunities. If we raise additional funds through the sale of equity, including common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced. Unless We Obtain Adequate Financing and Increase Our Revenues We May Be Unable to Continue as a Going Concern. We have experienced substantial reduction in cash, projected revenues and increased costs that adversely affected our results of operations and cash flows. Our company has suffered recurring losses from operations. This factor, in combination with (i) reliance upon debt and new equity financing to fund the continuing, losses from operations and cash flow deficits, (ii) material net losses and cash flow deficits from operations during fiscal year 2006, fiscal year 2005 and in prior years and (iii) the possibility that we may be unable to meet our debts as they come due, raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our company's ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to obtain adequate financing and achieve a level of revenues, adequate to support our capital and operating requirements, as to which no assurance can be given. In the event we are unable to continue as a going concern, we may elect or be required to seek protection from our creditors by filing a voluntary petition in bankruptcy or may be subject to an involuntary petition in bankruptcy. To date, management has not considered this alternative, nor does management view it as a likely occurrence. Our auditors have included in their report an explanatory paragraph describing conditions that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Risks Related to Sales, Marketing and Competition We May Be Unable to Successfully Compete in the Electronic Products Market Which is Highly Competitive and Subject to Rapid Technological Change. We compete in the market for electronics products which is intensely competitive and subject to rapid technological change. The market is also impacted by evolving industry standards, rapid price changes and rapid product obsolescence. Our competitors include a number of large foreign companies with U.S. operations and a number of domestic companies, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources. Our current competitors or new market entrants could introduce new or enhanced technologies or products with features that render the company's technology or products obsolete or less marketable, or could develop means of producing competitive products at a lower cost. Our ability to compete successfully will depend in large measure on our ability to maintain our capabilities in connection with upgrading products and quality control procedures and to adapt to technological changes and advances in the industry. Competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins, and loss of contracts, any of which could harm our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to keep pace with the technological demands of the marketplace or successfully enhance our products or develop new products that are compatible with the products of the electronics industry. We Rely on a Limited Number of Customers for Revenue. Historically, a substantial portion of our revenues has been derived primarily from a limited number of customers. One customer, APS/Wencor (now known as digEcor), accounted for approximately 94% of revenues for the year ended March 31, 2006. The failure to receive orders for and produce products or a decline in the economic prospects of our customers or the products we may produce for sale may have a material adverse effect on our operations. In May 2006, the company and certain of its officers were sued by digEcor. We are unable to determine at this time the impact this litigation and matter may have on our financial position or results of operations. See Item 1. Business - "Recent Developments." 13 If We Are Unsuccessful in Achieving Market Acceptance of Our Products, It Could Harm Our Business. Sales and marketing strategy contemplates sales of developed products to the electronics and computer software market by our customers. The failure of our customers to penetrate their projected markets would have a material adverse effect upon our operations and prospects. Market acceptance of our products and those of our customers will depend in part upon our ability to demonstrate and maintain the advantages of our technology over competing products. We Have Limited Marketing Capabilities and Resources Which Makes It Difficult For Us to Create Awareness of and Demand for Our Products and Technology. We have limited marketing capabilities and resources and are primarily dependent upon in-house executives for the marketing of our products, as well as our licensing business. Selling products and attracting new business customers requires ongoing marketing and sales efforts and expenditure of funds to create awareness of and demand for our technology. We cannot assure that our marketing efforts will be successful or result in future development contracts or other revenues. The Success of Our Business Depends on Emerging Markets and New Products. In order for demand for our technology, services and products to grow, the markets for portable digital devices, such as digital recorders and digital video/music players and other portable consumer devices, must develop and grow. If sales for these products do not grow, our revenues could decline. To remain competitive, we intend to develop new applications for our technology and develop new technology and products. If new applications or target markets fail to develop, or if our technology, services and products are not accepted by the market, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. Development of New or Improved Products, Processes or Technologies May Render Our Technology Obsolete and Hurt Our Business. The electronics, contract manufacturing and computer software markets are characterized by extensive research and development and rapid technological change resulting in very short product life cycles. Development of new or improved products, processes or technologies may render our technology and developed products obsolete or less competitive. We will be required to devote substantial efforts and financial resources to enhance our existing products and methods of manufacture and to develop new products and methods. There can be no assurance we will succeed with these efforts. Moreover, there can be no assurance that other products will not be developed which may render our technology and products obsolete. Risks Related to Operations We Depend On a Limited Number of Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers and Our Business Has Been and Will Be Harmed By Any Interruption of Supply or Failure of Performance. We rely on two suppliers for manufacturing our in-flight entertainment, eVU and MedeViewer products. We depend on our contract manufacturers to (i) allocate sufficient capacity to our manufacturing needs, (ii) produce acceptable quality products at agreed pricing and (iii) deliver on a timely basis. If a manufacturer is unable to satisfy these requirements, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. Any failure in performance by our manufacturer for any reason could have a material adverse affect on our business. Production and pricing by such manufacturer is subject to the risk of price fluctuations and periodic shortages of components. We have no supply agreements with component suppliers and, accordingly, we are dependent on the future ability of our manufacturer to purchase components. Failure or delay by suppliers in supplying necessary components could adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely and competitive basis in the future. Failure to deliver by one supplier has had a significant impact on our operations. See Item 1. Business - "Recent Developments." If We Lose Key Personnel or Are Unable to Attract and Retain Additional Highly Skilled Personnel Required For the Expansion of Our Activities Our Business Will Suffer. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our key technical, sales and senior management personnel and their ability to execute our strategy. The loss of the services of any of our senior level management, or certain other key employees, may harm our business. Our future success also depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. Competition for employees in our industry is intense. We may be unable to retain our key employees or to attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified employees in the future. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. Because Some of Our Management are Part-Time and Have Certain Conflicts of Interest, Our Business Could Be Harmed. Our Vice President, Robert Putnam, is also investor relations of American Technology Corporation. As a result of his involvement with American Technology Corporation, Mr. Putnam has in the past, and is expected in the future to devote a substantial portion of his time to other endeavors and only part-time services to e.Digital. Certain conflicts of interest now exist and will continue to exist between e.Digital and Mr. Putnam due to the fact that he has other employment or business interests to which he devotes some attention and he is expected to continue to do so. It is conceivable that the respective areas of interest of e.Digital and American Technology Corporation could overlap or conflict. 14 Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Government Regulation Failing to Protect Our Proprietary Rights to Our Technology Could Harm Our Ability to Compete, as well as Our Results of Our Operations. Our success and ability to compete substantially depends on our internally developed software, technologies and trademarks, which we protect through a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws. Patent applications or trademark registrations may not be approved. Even when they are approved, our patents or trademarks may be successfully challenged by others or invalidated. If our trademark registrations are not approved because third parties own such trademarks, our use of these trademarks would be restricted unless we enter into arrangements with the third-party owners, which may not be possible on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic and industry partners, and generally control access to and distribution of our software, technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use or disclosure, parties may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our solutions or technologies. The steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of our solutions or technologies, particularly in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We have licensed, and we may license in the future, certain proprietary rights to third parties. While we attempt to ensure that our business partners maintain the quality of our brand, they may take actions that could impair the value of our proprietary rights or our reputation. In addition, these business partners may not take the same steps we have taken to prevent misappropriation of our solutions or technologies. We May Face Intellectual Property Infringement Claims That May Be Difficult to Defend and Costly to Resolve, Which Could Harm Our Business. Although we do not believe we infringe the proprietary rights of any third parties, we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert such claims against us in the future or that such claims will not be successful. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources to defend any claims relating to proprietary rights, which could harm our business. In addition, we are obligated under certain agreements to indemnify the other party for claims that we infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties. If we are required to indemnify parties under these agreements, our business could be harmed. If someone asserts a claim relating to proprietary technology or information against us, we may seek licenses to this intellectual property. We may not be able to obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights may harm our business. Risks Related To Government Regulation, Content And Intellectual Property Government Regulation May Subject Us to Liability and Require Us to Change The Way We Do Business. Our business is subject to rapidly changing laws and regulations. Although our operations are currently based in California, the United States government and the governments of other states and foreign countries have attempted to regulate activities on the Internet. Evolving areas of law that are relevant to our business include privacy law, copyright law, proposed encryption laws, content regulation and import/export regulations. Because of this rapidly evolving and uncertain regulatory environment, we cannot predict how these laws and regulations might affect our business. In addition, these uncertainties make it difficult to ensure compliance with the laws and regulations governing the Internet. These laws and regulations could harm us by subjecting us to liability or forcing us to change how we do business. Risks Related to Trading in Our Common Stock Investing in a Technology Stock (Such as Ours) May Involve Greater Risk Than Other Investments Due to Market Conditions, Stock Price Volatility and Other Factors. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations to date, and will likely be subject to wide fluctuations in the future due to: o Quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results o Announcements of technological innovations by us, our customers or competitors o New products or significant design achievements by us or our competitors o General conditions in the markets for the our products or in the electronics industry o The price and availability of products and components o Changes in operating factors including delays of shipments, orders or cancellations o General financial market conditions o Market conditions for technology stocks o Litigation or changes in operating results or estimates by analysts or others o Or other events or factors We do not endorse and accept any responsibility for the estimates or recommendations issued by stock research analysts or others from time to time or comments on any electronic chat boards. The public stock markets in general, and technology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many high technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. 15 Low-Price Stocks and Stocks Traded on the OTC Electronic Bulletin Board are Subject to Special Regulations and may have Increased Risk. Our shares of common stock are traded on the OTC Electronic Bulletin Board, an electronic, screen-based trading system operated by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. ("NASD"). Securities traded on the OTC Electronic Bulletin Board are, for the most part, thinly traded and are subject to special regulations not imposed on securities listed or traded on the NASDAQ system or on a national securities exchange. As a result, an investor may find it difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the price of, our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our outstanding common stock in the public market could materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. To date, the price of our common stock has been extremely volatile with the sale price fluctuating from an intra-day low of $0.07 to a high of $0.22 in the last twelve months. In addition, our common stock is subject to Rules 15g-1-15g-6 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally, a person with assets in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 together with his or her spouse). For transactions covered by this rule, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to sale. Consequently, the rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell the Company's securities and may affect the ability of investors to sell their securities in the secondary market. The Commission has also adopted regulations which define a "penny stock" to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the regulations require the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a disclosure schedule prepared by the Commission relating to the penny stock market. The broker-dealer must also disclose the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer's presumed control over the market. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Important Factors Related to Forward-Looking Statements and Associated Risks. This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and we intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. These forward-looking statements include our plans and objectives of management for future operations, including plans and objectives relating to the products and our future economic performance. The forward-looking statements included herein are based upon current expectations that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions that we will design, manufacture, market and ship new products on a timely basis, that competitive conditions within the computer and electronic markets will not change materially or adversely, that the computer and electronic markets will continue to experience growth, that demand for the our products will increase, that we will obtain and/or retain existing development partners and key management personnel, that future inventory risks due to shifts in market demand will be minimized, that our forecasts will accurately anticipate market demand and that there will be no material adverse change in our operations or business. Assumptions relating to the foregoing involve judgments with respect, among other things, to future economic, competitive and market conditions and future business decisions, all of which are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of which are beyond our control. Although we believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in forward-looking information will be realized. In addition, as disclosed above, our business and operations are subject to substantial risks which increase the uncertainty inherent in such forward-looking statements. Any of the other factors disclosed above could cause our net sales or net income (or loss), or our growth in net sales or net income (or loss), to differ materially from prior results. Growth in absolute amounts of costs of sales and selling and administrative expenses or the occurrence of extraordinary events could cause actual results to vary materially from the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements. Budgeting and other management decisions are subjective in many respects and thus susceptible to interpretations and periodic revisions based on actual experience and business developments, the impact of which may cause us to alter our marketing, capital expenditure or other budgets, which may in turn affect our results of operations. In light of the significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking information included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that our objectives or plans will be achieved. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 16 