ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Note on Forward Looking Statements In addition to the other information in this annual report the factors listed below should be considered in evaluating our business and prospects. This annual report contains a number of forward-looking statements that reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including those discussed below and elsewhere herein, that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or those anticipated. In this report, the words “anticipates,” “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” “future” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned to consider the specific factors described below and not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained herein, which speak only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to publicly revise these forward-looking statements, to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date hereof. Financial Risks We Have a History of Losses and May Incur Future Losses. We have incurred significant operating losses in prior fiscal years and at March 31, 2008 we had an accumulated deficit of $82 million. We had losses of approximately $1.7 million and $3.1 million in fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively. To date, we have not achieved profitability and given the level of operating expenditures and the uncertainty of revenues and margins, we will continue to incur losses and negative cash flows in future periods. The failure to obtain sufficient revenues and margins to support operating expenses could harm our business. Unless We Obtain Adequate Financing and Increase Our Revenues We May Be Unable to Continue as a Going Concern. Our Company has suffered recurring losses from operations. This factor, in combination with (i) reliance upon debt and new equity financing to fund the continuing losses from operations and cash flow deficits, (ii) material net losses and cash flow deficits from operations during fiscal year 2008 and in prior years and (iii) the possibility that we may be unable to meet our debts as they come due, raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our Company’s ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to obtain adequate financing and achieve a level of revenues, adequate to support our capital and operating requirements, as to which no assurance can be given. In the event we are unable to continue as a going concern, we may elect or be required to seek protection from our creditors by filing a voluntary petition in bankruptcy or may be subject to an involuntary petition in bankruptcy. To date, management has not considered this alternative, nor does management view it as a likely occurrence. Our auditors have included in their report an explanatory paragraph describing conditions that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. 10 We Need to Obtain Additional Financing to Continue Operating our Business. We had an operating cash flow deficit of $1.4 million for fiscal 2008 and $2.5 million for fiscal 2007. We believe that cash on hand and proceeds from existing development and production contracts and product sales, are not sufficient to meet cash requirements for the next twelve months. We anticipate the need to raise additional funds to: · Finance working capital requirements · Pay for operating expenses or shortfalls in anticipated revenues · Fund research and development costs · Develop new technology, products or services · Respond to competitive pressures · Support strategic and industry relationships · Fund the production and marketing of our products and services · Meet our debt obligations as they become due We cannot guarantee that the common stock purchase agreement with Fusion Capital Fund II, LLC (“Fusion Capital”) will be sufficient or available to fund our ongoing operations. We only have the right to receive $80,000 every four business days under the agreement with Fusion Capital unless our stock price equals or exceeds $0.10, in which case we can sell greater amounts to Fusion Capital as the price of our common stock increases. Fusion Capital does not have the right, nor the obligation, to purchase any shares of our common stock on any business day that the market price of our common stock is less than $0.08. We registered 19,166,666 shares for sale by Fusion Capital from time to time. We sold 4,166,666 shares to Fusion Capital in January 2007 for proceeds of $500,000 and an additional 6,283,275 shares through March 31, 2008 for additional proceeds of $960,000. Accordingly, the selling price of the common stock that may be sold to Fusion to the term of the common stock purchase agreement will have to average at least $0.81 per share for us to receive the maximum remaining proceeds of $7.0 million. Assuming a purchase price of $0.16 per share (the closing sale price of the common stock on March 31, 2008) and the purchase by Fusion of the remaining shares under the common stock purchase agreement at that date, proceeds to us would be an additional $1.4 million. The extent we rely on Fusion Capital as a source of funding will depend on a number of factors including, the prevailing market price of our common stock and the extent to which we are able to secure working capital from other sources, such as through the sale of our products or services or the licensing of our intellectual property. Specifically, Fusion Capital does not have the right nor the obligation to purchase any shares of our common stock on any business days that the market price of our common stock is less than $0.08. If obtaining sufficient financing from Fusion Capital was to prove unavailable or prohibitively dilutive and if we are unable to raise additional funds through the sale of our products or services or the licensing of our intellectual property, we will need to secure another source of funding in order to satisfy our working capital needs. Even if we are able to access the sufficient financing under the common stock purchase agreement with Fusion Capital, we may still need additional capital to fully implement our business, operating and development plans. We cannot assure you that such additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available to us then we may not be able to continue operations or take advantage of opportunities. If we raise additional funds through the sale of equity, including common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced. We Expect Our Operating Results to Fluctuate Significantly - Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and we expect that they will continue to fluctuate in the future. This fluctuation is a result of a variety of factors, including the following: · Unpredictable demand and pricing for our products and services · Market acceptance of our products by our customers and their end users · Uncertainties with respect to future customer product orders, their timing and the margins to be received, if any · Fluctuations in product costs and operating costs · Changes in research and development costs · Changes in general economic conditions · Risks and costs of warranty claims · Changes in technology · Short product lifecycles and possible obsolescence of inventory and materials 11 We May Experience Product Delays, Cost Overruns and Errors Which Could Adversely Affect our Operating Performance and Ability to Remain Competitive. We have experienced development delays and cost overruns associated with product development and provision of services to our customers in the past. We may experience additional delays and cost overruns on current or future projects. Future delays and cost overruns could adversely affect our financial results and could affect our ability to respond to technological changes, evolving industry standards, competitive developments or customer requirements. Our technology, products and services could contain errors that could cause delays, order cancellations, contract terminations, adverse publicity, reduced market acceptance of products, or lawsuits by our customers or others who have acquired our products. We do not Anticipate Paying Dividends. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. An investment in our common stock, therefore, may be more suitable for an investor that is seeking capital appreciation rather than current yield and, as a consequence, may be more speculative. Accordingly, investors should not purchase our common stock with an expectation of receiving regular dividends. Risks Related to Sales, Marketing and Competition We May Be Unable to Successfully Compete in the Electronic Products Market Which is Highly Competitive and Subject to Rapid Technological Change. We compete in the market for electronics products that is intensely competitive and subject to rapid technological change. The market is also impacted by evolving industry standards, rapid price changes and rapid product obsolescence. Our competitors include a number of large foreign companies with U.S. operations and a number of domestic companies, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources. Our current competitors or new market entrants could introduce new or enhanced technologies or products with features that render our technology or products obsolete or less marketable, or could develop means of producing competitive products at a lower cost. Our ability to compete successfully will depend in large measure on our ability to maintain our capabilities in connection with upgrading products and quality control procedures and to adapt to technological changes and advances in the industry. Competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins, and loss of contracts, any of which could harm our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to keep pace with the technological demands of the marketplace or successfully enhance our products or develop new products that are compatible with the products of the electronics industry. We Rely on a Limited Number of Customers from One Industry for Revenue. Historically, a substantial portion of our revenues has been derived primarily from a limited number of customers and revenues during fiscal 2007 and 2008 were derived from one industry, the airline industry. Three customers accounted for 63% of our revenues for the year ended March 31, 2008 and two customers accounted for 92% of revenues in the year ended March 31, 2007. The failure to receive orders for and produce products or a decline in the economic prospects of the airline industry or our customers or the products we may produce for sale may have a material adverse effect on our operations. The airline industry is facing a variety of economic challenges that may adversely affect the prospects for new orders of portable IFE systems and adversely affecting future operating results. Customer Litigation. In May 2006, our company and certain of our current and former officers were sued by former customer digEcor. We are unable to determine at this time the impact this litigation and matter may have on our financial position or results of operations. An adverse ruling by the court could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. See “Legal Proceedings.” If We Are Unsuccessful in Achieving Market Acceptance of Our Products, It Could Harm Our Business. Sales and marketing strategy contemplates sales of our products to the IFE and other markets. Any failure to penetrate our targeted markets would have a material adverse effect upon our operations and prospects. Market acceptance of our products by our customers and their end users will depend in part upon our ability to demonstrate and maintain the advantages of our technology over competing products. We Have Limited Marketing Capabilities and Resources Which Makes It Difficult For Us to Create Awareness of and Demand for Our Products and Technology. We have limited marketing capabilities and resources and are primarily dependent upon in-house executives for the marketing of our products, as well as our licensing business. Selling products and attracting new business customers requires ongoing marketing and sales efforts and expenditure of funds to create awareness of and demand for our technology. We cannot assure that our marketing efforts will be successful or result in future development contracts or other revenues. The Success of Our Business Depends on Emerging Markets and New Products. In order for demand for our technology, services and products to grow, the markets for portable digital devices, such as digital recorders and digital video/music players and other portable consumer devices must develop and grow. If sales for these products do not grow, our revenues could decline. To remain competitive, we intend to develop new applications for our technology and develop new technology and products. If new applications or target markets fail to develop, or if our technology, services and products are not accepted by the market, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. 12 Development of New or Improved Products, Processes or Technologies May Render Our Technology Obsolete and Hurt Our Business. The electronics, contract manufacturing and computer software markets are characterized by extensive research and development and rapid technological change resulting in very short product life cycles. Development of new or improved products, processes or technologies may render our technology and developed products obsolete or less competitive. We will be required to devote substantial efforts and financial resources to enhance our existing products and methods of manufacture and to develop new products and methods. There can be no assurance we will succeed with these efforts. Moreover, there can be no assurance that other products will not be developed which may render our technology and products obsolete. Risks Related to Operations We Depend On a Limited Number of Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers and Our Business Will Be Harmed By Any Interruption of Supply or Failure of Performance. We rely on one major supplier for manufacturing our eVU product. We depend on our contract manufacturer to (i) allocate sufficient capacity to our manufacturing needs, (ii) produce acceptable quality products at agreed pricing and (iii) deliver on a timely basis. If a manufacturer is unable to satisfy these requirements, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. Any failure in performance by our manufacturer for any reason could have a material adverse affect on our business. Production and pricing by such manufacturer is subject to the risk of price fluctuations and periodic shortages of components. We have no supply agreements with component suppliers and, accordingly, we are dependent on the future ability of our manufacturer to purchase components. Failure or delay by suppliers in supplying necessary components could adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely and competitive basis in the future. If We Lose Key Personnel or Are Unable to Attract and Retain Additional Highly Skilled Personnel Required For the Expansion of Our Activities Our Business Will Suffer. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our key technical, sales and senior management personnel and their ability to execute our strategy. The loss of the services of any of our senior level management, or certain other key employees, may harm our business. Our future success also depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. Competition for employees in our industry is intense. We may be unable to retain our key employees or to attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified employees in the future. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. Because Some of Our Management are Part-Time and Have Certain Conflicts of Interest, Our Business Could Be Harmed. Our Senior Vice President, Robert Putnam, also performs investor relations for American Technology Corporation. As a result of his involvement with American Technology Corporation, Mr. Putnam has in the past, and is expected in the future to devote a substantial portion of his time to other endeavors and only part-time services to e.Digital. Certain conflicts of interest now exist and will continue to exist between e.Digital and Mr. Putnam due to the fact that he has other employment or business interests to which he devotes some attention and he is expected to continue to do so. It is conceivable that the respective areas of interest of e.Digital and American Technology Corporation could overlap or conflict. Risks Related to our Patent Enforcement Strategy Enforcement of Our Patented Technologies is Untested and We Face Uncertain Revenue Prospects or Market Value. Our portfolio of flash memory patents and technologies have yet to be licensed nor have they been the subject of any patent enforcement litigation. The licensing demand for our patent portfolio is untested and is subject to fluctuation based upon the rate at which target infringers agree to pay royalties or settle enforcement actions, if any. There can be no assurance of revenues from our strategy of enforcing our flash memory patent portfolio. Our Fee Arrangement with Patent Enforcement Counsel Subjects Us to Certain Risks and Substantial Costs and Fees Could Limit Our Net Proceeds From Any Successful Patent Enforcement Actions. Our agreement for legal services and a contingent fee arrangement with Duane Morris LLP provides that Duane Morris is our exclusive legal counsel in connection with the assertion of our flash memory related patents against infringers (“Patent Enforcement Matters’). Duane Morris is advancing certain costs and expenses including travel expenses, court costs and expert fees. We have agreed to pay Duane Morris a fee equal to 40% of any license or litigation recovery related to Patent Enforcement Matters, after recovery of expenses, and 50% of recovery if appeal is necessary. We are not in control of the timing, costs and fees, which could be substantial and could limit our share of proceeds, if any, from future patent enforcement actions. There can be no assurance Duane Morris will diligently and timely pursue patent enforcement actions on our behalf. In the event we are acquired or sold or we elect to sell the covered patents or upon certain other corporate events or in the event we terminate the agreement with Duane Morris for any reason, then Duane Morris shall be entitled to collect accrued costs and a fee equal to three times overall time and expenses and a fee of 15% of a good faith estimate of the overall value of the covered patents. We have provided Duane Morris a lien and a security interest in the covered patents to secure this obligation. Should any of the aforementioned events occur, the fees and costs owed to Duane Morris could be substantial and limit our revenues. 13 New Legislation, Regulations or Rules Related to Enforcing Patents Could Significantly Decrease Our Prospect for Revenue and Increase the Time and Costs Associated with Patent Enforcement. If new legislation, regulations or rules are implemented either by Congress, the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or the courts that impact the patent application process, the patent enforcement process or the rights of patent holders, these changes could negatively affect our revenue prospects and increase the costs of enforcement. For example, new rules regarding the burden of proof in patent enforcement actions could significantly increase the cost of our enforcement actions, and any new standards or limitations on liability for patent infringement could negatively impact revenue derived from such enforcement actions. While we are not aware that any such changes are likely to occur in the foreseeable future that impact our current patents, we cannot assure that such changes will not occur. Should Litigation Be Required to Enforce Our Patents, Trial Judges and Juries Often Find It Difficult to Understand Complex Patent Enforcement Litigation, and as a Result, We May Need to Appeal Adverse Decisions By Lower Courts In Order to Successfully Enforce Our Patents. It is difficult to predict the outcome of patent enforcement litigation at the trial level. It is often difficult for juries and trial judges to understand complex, patented technologies, and as a result, there is a higher rate of successful appeals in patent enforcement litigation than more standard business litigation. Such appeals are expensive and time consuming, resulting in increased costs and delayed revenue. Although we intend to diligently pursue enforcement litigation if necessary to monetize our patents, we cannot predict with significant reliability the decisions made by juries and trial courts. Federal Courts are Becoming More Crowded, and as a Result, Patent Enforcement Litigation is Taking Longer. Any patent enforcement actions we may be required to take to monetize our patents will most likely be prosecuted in federal court. Federal trial courts that hear patent enforcement actions also hear other cases that may take priority over any actions we may take. As a result, it is difficult to predict the length of time it will take to complete any enforcement actions. As Patent Enforcement Litigation Becomes More Prevalent, It May Become More Difficult for Us to Voluntarily License Our Patents. We believe that the more prevalent patent enforcement actions become, the more difficult it will be for us to voluntarily license our patents to major electronic firms. As a result, we may need to increase the number of our patent enforcement actions to cause infringing companies to license our patents or pay damages for lost royalties. This may increase the risks associated with an investment in our Company. Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Government Regulation Failing to Protect Our Proprietary Rights to Our Technology Could Harm Our Ability to Compete, as well as Our Results of Our Operations. Our success and ability to compete substantially depends on our internally developed software, technologies and trademarks, which we protect through a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws. Patent applications or trademark registrations may not be approved. Even when they are approved, our patents or trademarks may be successfully challenged by others or invalidated. If our trademark registrations are not approved because third parties own such trademarks, our use of these trademarks would be restricted unless we enter into arrangements with the third-party owners, which may not be possible on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic and industry partners, and generally control access to and distribution of our software, technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use or disclosure, parties may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our solutions or technologies. The steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of our solutions or technologies, particularly in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We have licensed, and we may license in the future, certain proprietary rights to third parties. While we attempt to ensure that our business partners maintain the quality of our brand, they may take actions that could impair the value of our proprietary rights or our reputation. In addition, these business partners may not take the same steps we have taken to prevent misappropriation of our solutions or technologies. 14 We May Face Intellectual Property Infringement Claims That May Be Difficult to Defend and Costly to Resolve, Which Could Harm Our Business. Although we do not believe we infringe the proprietary rights of any third parties, we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert such claims against us in the future or that such claims will not be successful. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources to defend any claims relating to proprietary rights, which could harm our business. In addition, we are obligated under certain agreements to indemnify the other party for claims that we infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties. If we are required to indemnify parties under these agreements, our business could be harmed. If someone asserts a claim relating to proprietary technology or information against us, we may seek licenses to this intellectual property. We may not be able to obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights may harm our business. Risks Related to Government Regulation, Content and Intellectual Property Government Regulation May Subject Us to Liability and Require Us to Change the Way We Do Business. Our business is subject to rapidly changing laws and regulations. Although our operations are currently based in California, the United States government and the governments of other states and foreign countries have attempted to regulate activities on the Internet. Evolving areas of law that are relevant to our business include privacy law, copyright law, proposed encryption laws, content regulation and import/export regulations. Because of this rapidly evolving and uncertain regulatory environment, we cannot predict how these laws and regulations might affect our business. In addition, these uncertainties make it difficult to ensure compliance with the laws and regulations governing the Internet. These laws and regulations could harm us by subjecting us to liability or forcing us to change how we do business. We are also subject to regulations for portable electronic devices in various countries and for the emissions of such devices in aircraft. Failure to comply with these many regulations could harm our business or require us to repurchase products from customers. Compliance With Current And Future Environmental Regulations May Be Costly, Which Could Impact Our Future Earnings. We are subject to environmental and other regulations due to our production and marketing of products in certain states and countries. We also face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and upcoming requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including the restrictions on lead and certain other substances in electronics that apply to specified electronics products put on the market in the European Union as of July 1, 2006 (Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (EU RoHS)). The European Union has also finalized the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE), which makes producers of electrical goods financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. Other countries, such as the United States, China and Japan, have enacted or may enact laws or regulations similar to the EU RoHS or WEEE Legislation. These and other environmental regulations may require us to reengineer certain of our existing products to comply with environmental regulations. We May Incur Liability from Our Requirement to Indemnify Certain Customers Regarding Current Litigation and Certain Intellectual Property Matters. Our contracts with major airlines are subject to future performance by us and product warranties and intellectual property indemnifications including certain remedies, ranging from modification to product substitution or refund. We are also required to provide similar indemnification for adverse consequences of the litigation described below in “Legal Proceedings.” Should our products be deemed to infringe on the intellectual property of others the costs of modification, substitution or refund could be material and could harm our business and adversely impact our operations. Our Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Is Not Adequate And May Result In Financial Statements That Are Incomplete Or Subject To Restatement. Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 requires significant procedures and review processes of our system of internal controls. Section 404 requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal control over financial reporting beginning with this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2008. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to report on our internal controls over financial reporting for the year ending March 31, 2009. The additional costs associated with this process may be significant. After documenting and testing our system, we have identified material weaknesses in our accounting and financial functions due to a lack of oversight by an independent audit committee and ineffective controls over the period ending closing process. As a result, our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. As a result of our internal control over financial reporting being ineffective, investors could lose confidence in our financial reports, and our stock price might be adversely affected. In addition, remedying this or any future material weaknesses that we or our independent registered public accounting firm might identify, could require us to incur significant costs and expend significant time and management resources. We cannot assure you that any of the measures we might implement to remedy any such deficiencies would effectively mitigate or remedy such deficiencies. 15 Risks Related to Trading in Our Common Stock The Sale of our Common Stock to Fusion Capital May Cause Dilution and the Sale of the Shares of Common Stock Acquired by Fusion Capital Could Cause the Price of our Common Stock to Decline. In connection with entering into the common stock purchase agreement, we authorized the sale to Fusion Capital of up to 19,166,666 shares of our common stock. The number of shares ultimately offered for sale by Fusion Capital is dependent upon the number of shares purchased by Fusion Capital under the common stock purchase agreement. The purchase price for the common stock to be sold to Fusion Capital pursuant to the common stock purchase agreement will fluctuate based on the price of our common stock. All of the 19,166,666 shares in the offering are expected to be freely tradable. It is anticipated that the shares registered that may not have been previously sold to date may be sold over the next seven months. Depending upon market liquidity at the time, a sale of shares under the offering at any given time could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Fusion Capital may ultimately purchase all, some or none of the 8,716,725 shares of common stock not issued at March 31, 2008. After it has acquired the shares, it may sell all, some or none of the shares. Therefore, sales to Fusion Capital by us under the agreement may result in substantial dilution to the interests of other holders of our common stock. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock under this offering, or anticipation of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales. However, we have the right to control the timing and amount of any sales of our shares to Fusion Capital and the common stock purchase agreement may be terminated by us at any time at our discretion without any cost to us. Investing in a Technology Stock (Such as Ours) May Involve Greater Risk Than Other Investments Due to Market Conditions, Stock Price Volatility and Other Factors. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations to date, and will likely be subject to wide fluctuations in the future due to: · Quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results · Announcements of technological innovations by us, our customers or competitors · New products or significant design achievements by us or our competitors · General conditions in the markets for the our products or in the electronics industry · The price and availability of products and components · Changes in operating factors including delays of shipments, orders or cancellations · General financial market conditions · Market conditions for technology stocks · Litigation or changes in operating results or estimates by analysts or others · Or other events or factors In addition, potential dilutive effects of future sales of shares of common stock by stockholders and by the Company, including Fusion Capital and subsequent sale of common stock by the holders of warrants and options could have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares. We do not endorse and accept any responsibility for the estimates or recommendations issued by stock research analysts or others from time to time or comments on any electronic chat boards. The public stock markets in general, and technology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many high technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. Low-Price Stocks and Stocks Traded on the OTC Electronic Bulletin Board are Subject to Special Regulations and may have Increased Risk. Our shares of common stock are traded on the OTC Electronic Bulletin Board, an electronic, screen-based trading system operated by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (“NASD”). Securities traded on the OTC Electronic Bulletin Board are, for the most part, thinly traded and are subject to special regulations not imposed on securities listed or traded on the NASDAQ system or on a national securities exchange. As a result, an investor may find it difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the price of, our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our outstanding common stock in the public market could materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. To date, the price of our common stock has been extremely volatile with the sale price fluctuating from a low of $0.11 to a high of $0.23 in the last twelve months. In addition, our common stock is subject to Rules 15g-1-15g-6 promulgated under the Exchange Act that imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally, a person with assets in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 together with his or her spouse). For transactions covered by this rule, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. Consequently, the rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell the Company’s securities and may affect the ability of investors to sell their securities in the secondary market. The Securities and Exchange Commission has also adopted regulations which define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the regulations require the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a disclosure schedule prepared by the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the penny stock market. The broker-dealer must also disclose the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer’s presumed control over the market. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. 16 Important Factors Related to Forward-Looking Statements and Associated Risks. This prospectus contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act and we intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. These forward-looking statements include our plans and objectives of management for future operations, including plans and objectives relating to the products and our future economic performance. The forward-looking statements included herein are based upon current expectations that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions that we will design, manufacture, market and ship new products on a timely basis, that competitive conditions within the computer and electronic markets will not change materially or adversely, that the computer and electronic markets will continue to experience growth, that demand for the our products will increase, that we will obtain and/or retain existing development partners and key management personnel, that future inventory risks due to shifts in market demand will be minimized, that our forecasts will accurately anticipate market demand and that there will be no material adverse change in our operations or business. Assumptions relating to the foregoing involve judgments with respect, among other things, to future economic, competitive and market conditions and future business decisions, all of which are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of which are beyond our control. Although we believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in forward-looking information will be realized. In addition, as disclosed above, our business and operations are subject to substantial risks which increase the uncertainty inherent in such forward-looking statements. Any of the other factors disclosed above could cause our net sales or net income (or loss), or our growth in net sales or net income (or loss), to differ materially from prior results. Growth in absolute amounts of costs of sales and selling and administrative expenses or the occurrence of extraordinary events could cause actual results to vary materially from the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements. Budgeting and other management decisions are subjective in many respects and thus susceptible to interpretations and periodic revisions based on actual experience and business developments, the impact of which may cause us to alter our marketing, capital expenditure or other budgets, which may in turn affect our results of operations. In light of the significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking information included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that our objectives or plans will be achieved. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 