Item 1A. Risk Factors - ------- ------------ Recent Losses. We sustained a net loss of approximately $711,000 in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, a net loss of approximately $1,802,000 for our fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, and a net loss of approximately $5,398,000 for our fiscal year ended March 31, 2004. These losses were due in part to the unpredictable revenue patterns associated with our business, as described below. There can be no assurances that we will be profitable in the future. Need for Additional Funding. On June 20, 2007, subsequent to the end of Fiscal 2007, we repaid our remaining obligations owed to our senior lender in the amount of $1,762,000, which consisted solely of amounts due under a term loan. At the time of the pay-off, we had been in default of certain bank loan covenants. We are currently in discussions with several lending institutions to obtain revolving credit financing for working capital purposes. However, there can be no assurance that funding will be available to us at the time it is needed or in the amount necessary to satisfy our needs, or, that if funds are made available, that they will be available on terms that are favorable to us. If we are unable to secure financing when needed, our business may be materially and adversely affected, and we may be required to cease all or a substantial portion of our operations. If we issue additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock in order to secure additional funding, current stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership. In the event we issue securities or instruments other than common stock, we may be required to issue such instruments with greater rights than those currently possessed by holders of common stock. Our internal controls may not be sufficient to ensure timely and reliable financial information. In November 2006, in connection with their review of our financial statements for the quarter ended September 30, 2006, Grant Thornton LLP, our former independent auditors, identified to management and our Audit Committee material weaknesses in the effectiveness of our internal controls. As a result of our communications with Grant Thornton and further review conducted by management and our Audit Committee, we concluded that we needed to correct deficiencies in our internal controls and procedures for financial reporting. These deficiencies included our failure to properly monitor and account for state sales and use tax liabilities, inadequate controls and procedures relating to revenue recognition, insufficient staffing, insufficient controls in monitoring and controlling the posting of journal entries, and ineffective controls over access by information technology personnel to information technology programs and systems. Working with our Audit Committee, we have identified and implemented, or are in the process of implementing, corrective actions to improve the design and effectiveness of our internal controls, including the enhancement of systems and procedures. However, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation or operation of these controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, which could adversely affect our business and harm our stock price. 6 The effectiveness of our controls and procedures may be limited by a variety of risks including: o faulty human judgment and simple errors, omissions or mistakes; o collusion of two or more people; and o inappropriate management override of procedures. Enhanced controls and procedures may still not be adequate to assure timely and reliable financial information. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud will be detected. Dependence on Key Personnel. Our business is managed by a limited number of key management and operating personnel. The loss of any one of those persons could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, our agreement with Diageo, our largest client, requires us to obtain approval from Diageo prior to replacing Brian Murphy, the Company's Vice Chairman. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. Customers. A substantial portion of our sales has been dependent on one client or a limited concentration of clients. In particular, Diageo accounted for approximately 53% and 49% of our revenues for our fiscal years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006, and Diageo accounted for 64% of our accounts receivable at March 31, 2007. To the extent such dependency continues, significant fluctuations in revenues, results of operations and liquidity could arise if Diageo or any other significant client reduces its budget allocated to the services we provide. Unpredictable Revenue Patterns. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from large promotional programs which originate on a project-by-project basis. Since these projects are susceptible to change, delay or cancellation as a result of specific client financial or other marketing and manufacturing related circumstantial issues, as well as changes in the overall economy, our revenue is unpredictable and may vary significantly from period to period. Competition. The market for promotional services is highly competitive, with hundreds of companies claiming to provide various services in the promotion industry. Some of these companies have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. We compete on the basis of the quality and the degree of comprehensive services which we provide to our clients. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully with existing or future industry competitors. Risks Associated with Acquisitions. An integral part of our growth strategy is evaluating and, from time to time, engaging in discussions regarding acquisitions and strategic relationships. No assurance can be given that suitable acquisitions or strategic relationships can be identified, financed and completed on acceptable terms, or that future acquisitions, if any, will be successful. Control by Executive Officers and Directors. Our executive officers and directors collectively beneficially own approximately 18% of our voting stock and, in effect, have the power to influence strongly the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election or removal of directors 7 and the approval of significant corporate transactions. Such voting power could also delay or prevent a change in control transaction in which our stockholders could otherwise dispose of their shares of our Common Stock at a substantial premium to its publicly traded share price. Item 1B. Unresolved SEC Comments - ------- ----------------------- None. 