Item 1A. Risk Factors - --------------------- Outstanding Indebtedness; Security Interest. At March 31, 2006, loans outstanding from our secured lender amounted to $3,000,000, and we had $3,000,000 of borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility. As security for our obligations under our Credit Agreement, we have granted the lender a first priority security interest in all of our assets. In the event of a default under the Credit Agreement, at the lender's option, (i) the principal and interest of the loans and all other obligations under the Credit Agreement will immediately become due and payable, and (ii) the lender may exercise its rights and remedies provided for in the Credit Agreement and the related security agreements, and the rights and remedies of a secured party under applicable law. At March 31, 2006, we were not in compliance with the financial covenants in the Credit Agreement; namely, the debt service coverage ratio, the consolidated senior funded debt to consolidated EBITDA ratio and the prohibition of incurring a consolidated net loss in two consecutive fiscal quarters or any fiscal year. On July 12, 2006 our lender waived our defaults arising as a result of such noncompliance and charged us a $10,000 waiver fee. Although we expect to be able to comply with these financial covenants in future periods, there can be no assurance that we will do so, and in the event we are not able to comply with these covenants and are required to seek waivers from our lender, there can be no assurance that our lender would grant us such a waiver. Recent Losses. We sustained a net loss of approximately $1,031,000 for our fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, and a net loss of approximately $5,265,000 for our fiscal year ended March 31, 2004. These losses were due in part to the unpredictable revenue patterns associated with our business, as described below. There can be no assurances that we will be profitable in the future. Dependence on Key Personnel. Our business is managed by a limited number of key management and operating personnel, none of whom are party to a long-term employment agreement with us. The loss of any one of those persons could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, our agreement with Diageo, our largest client, requires us to continue to employ Brain Murphy, the Chief Executive Officer of our U.S. Concepts subsidiary. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. Customers. A substantial portion of our sales has been dependent on one client or a limited concentration of clients. To the extent such dependency continues, significant fluctuations in revenues, results of operations and liquidity could arise if a particular client reduces its budget allocated to the services we provide. Unpredictable Revenue Patterns. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from large promotional programs which originate on a project-by-project basis. Since these projects are susceptible to change, delay or cancellation as a result of specific client financial or other marketing and manufacturing related circumstantial issues, as well as changes in the overall economy, our revenue is unpredictable and may vary significantly from period to period. Competition. The market for promotional services is highly competitive, with hundreds of companies claiming to provide various services in the promotion industry. Some of these companies have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. We compete on the basis of the quality and the degree of comprehensive services which we provide to our clients. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully with existing or future industry competitors. 6 Risks Associated with Acquisitions. An integral part of our growth strategy is evaluating and, from time to time, engaging in discussions regarding acquisitions and strategic relationships. No assurance can be given that suitable acquisitions or strategic relationships can be identified, financed and completed on acceptable terms, or that future acquisitions, if any, will be successful. Expansion Risk. In the past, we have experienced periods of rapid expansion. This growth has increased our operating complexity as well as the level of responsibility for both existing and new management personnel and operating systems. Our ability to manage our expansion effectively will require us to continue to implement and improve our operational and financial systems and to expand, train and manage our employee base. Our inability to effectively manage expansion could have a material adverse effect on our business. Control by Executive Officers and Directors. Our executive officers and directors collectively beneficially own approximately 28% of our voting stock and, in effect, have the power to influence strongly the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election or removal of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. Such voting power could also delay or prevent a change in control transaction in which our stockholders could otherwise dispose of their shares of our Common Stock at a substantial premium to its publicly traded share price. In addition, our Credit Agreement requires certain individuals to collectively maintain, at a minimum, a 15% beneficial ownership of our Common Stock during the term of the Credit Agreement. Item 1B. Unresolved SEC Comments - ------- ----------------------- None 