Risk Factors Outstanding Indebtedness; Security Interest. At March 31, 2005, loans outstanding from our secured lender amounted to $4,584,500, and we had $2,415,500 of borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility. As security for our obligations under our Credit Agreement, we have granted the lender a first priority security interest in all of our assets. In the event of a default under the Credit Agreement, at the lender's option, (i) the principal and interest of the loans and all other obligations under the Credit Agreement will immediately become due and payable, and (ii) the lender may exercise its rights and remedies provided for in the Credit Agreement and the related security agreements, and the rights and remedies of a secured party under applicable law. In the past we have been required to obtain waivers with respect to our non-compliance with financial covenants provided for in the Credit Agreement, and we may be required to do so in the future. However, there can be no assurance that the lender would waive any future non-compliance with these covenants. 5 Recent Loss. We sustained a net loss of approximately $2,745,000 for our fiscal year ended March 31, 2004. This loss was due in part to the unpredictable revenue patterns associated with our business, as described below. Although we were profitable for fiscal 2005, there can be no assurance we will be profitable in future periods. Dependence on Key Personnel. Our business is managed by a limited number of key management and operating personnel. The loss of any one of those persons could have a material adverse impact on our business. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. Each of our key executives is a party to an employment agreement that expires in 2006. Customers. A substantial portion of our sales has been dependent on one client or a limited concentration of clients. To the extent such dependency continues, significant fluctuations in revenues, results of operations and liquidity could arise if a particular client reduces its budget allocated to the services we provide. Unpredictable Revenue Patterns. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from large promotional programs which originate on a project-by-project basis. Since these projects are susceptible to change, delay or cancellation as a result of specific client financial or other marketing and manufacturing related circumstantial issues, as well as changes in the overall economy, our revenue is unpredictable and may vary significantly from period to period. Competition. The market for promotional services is highly competitive, with hundreds of companies claiming to provide various services in the promotion industry. Some of these companies have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. We compete on the basis of the quality and the degree of comprehensive services which we provide to our clients. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully with existing or future industry competitors. Risks Associated with Acquisitions. An integral part of our growth strategy is evaluating and, from time to time, engaging in discussions regarding acquisitions and strategic relationships. No assurance can be given that suitable acquisitions or strategic relationships can be identified, financed and completed on acceptable terms, or that future acquisitions, if any, will be successful. Expansion Risk. In the past, we have experienced periods of rapid expansion. This growth has increased our operating complexity as well as the level of responsibility for both existing and new management personnel. Our ability to manage our expansion effectively will require us to continue to implement and improve our operational and financial systems and to expand, train and manage our employee base. Our inability to effectively manage expansion could have a material adverse effect on our business. Control by Executive Officers and Directors. Our executive officers and directors collectively beneficially own a significant percentage of the voting stock of CoActive and, in effect, have the power to influence strongly the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election or removal of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. Such voting could also delay or prevent a change in the control of CoActive in which the holders of CoActive Common Stock could receive a substantial premium. In addition, our Credit Agreement requires our executive officers to maintain, at a minimum, a 15% beneficial ownership of CoActive Common Stock during the term of the Credit Agreement. 6 