ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The foregoing discussion in this Item 1 and the discussion contained in Item 7 of this Form 10-K contain various “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations or beliefs concerning future events. Such statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “could,” “possible,” “plan,” “project,” “will,” “forecast” and similar words or expressions. Our forward-looking statements generally relate to growth strategies, demand for our services, financial results, marketing efforts, competitive conditions and cash requirements. Although it is not possible to foresee all of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements, such factors include, among others, the risk factors that follow. However, investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. We may not be able to implement our growth strategy successfully. Our growth strategy is based on becoming the leading integrator of fitness and health management services for corporations and other large organizations. The key elements of our strategy are to pursue growth in our Health Management business segment, pursue new customers in our Fitness Management business segment, sell our Fitness Management customers on adopting the services we offer in our integrated Health Management model, and pursue strategic opportunities that provide operational and financial value. Our ability to implement each of these elements depends largely upon our ability to make strategic investments in our Health Management business segment to fund this growth, and the success of those investments. If we do not have sufficient resources to make the necessary investments, or do not successfully make these investments, our growth strategy will be adversely affected and we may not be able to increase our revenues or profitability. Similarly, if we are unable to implement any of the elements of our growth strategy, our growth may be adversely affected. We may experience difficulty managing growth, including attracting qualified staff. We have experienced substantial growth during the past few years, both organically and by acquisition. Our ability to grow in the future will depend on a number of factors, including the ability to obtain new customers, expand existing customer relationships, develop additional fitness and health improvement programs and services and hire and train qualified staff. We may experience difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified staff in various markets to meet growth opportunities. Further, in order to attract qualified staff, we may be required to pay higher salaries and enhance benefits in more competitive markets, which may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. Sustaining growth may require us to sell our services at lower prices to remain competitive, which may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage expanding operations effectively or that we will be able to maintain or accelerate our growth, and any failure to do so may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. 10 We may not be able to successfully cross-sell our health management programs to our fitness management customers. A part of our growth strategy involves continuing and expanding our efforts to sell health management services to our fitness management customers. Our cross-selling efforts may not be successful since our experience indicates that some current customers have different internal departments involved with procuring fitness management services, on the one hand, and health management services, on the other hand. As a result, we may be required to establish new relationships with personnel within our customers, which will limit the potential benefit of established relationships we have developed. We may also be required to overcome different purchasing requirements and standards to the extent they vary within internal departments of our customers. We may experience similar difficulties in cross-selling all of our services to foreign operations of our domestic customers. If we experience significant limitations as a result of the foregoing circumstances, or any other circumstances, we may not be able to increase our revenues or profitability to the extent we anticipate. The timing of new and lost staffing service contracts may not be indicative of trends in our business or of future quarterly financial results. We evaluate our business, in part, by reviewing trends in our financial performance. We believe an important indicator of our outlook is revenue to be derived from fitness and health management service contracts we secure with customers. Fitness and health management service contracts are often long-term contracts (i.e., 3 to 5 years), automatically renew on an annual basis and generally require 30 to 60 days notice to terminate in order to avoid the automatic renewal provision. Revenue from new contracts often is not recognized for a period of 90 to 180 days after proposal acceptance due to lead times necessary to execute a contract and hire staff to begin providing services. Since termination notice periods are considerably less than the time it takes to begin servicing new contracts, the revenue lost in a reporting period may significantly exceed the revenue gained from new contracts. Because of these timing differences, management generally does not view changes in quarterly revenue, whether sequential or as compared to prior quarter changes, to be indicative of its outlook or trends in our business or to be reflective of revenue expected in succeeding quarters. Rather, management generally evaluates revenue trends in our fitness and health management services business based upon 12 to 18-month periods since we believe this helps to minimize the timing impact from new and terminated contracts. Management cautions investors not to place undue reliance upon fluctuations in quarterly revenue viewed in isolation from revenue information over longer periods of time (e.g., comparative trailing 12-month information), and to not view quarterly revenue as necessarily being indicative of our outlook or results to be expected in future quarters. We are dependent on maintaining our relationships with third party partners to provide programs and services. Our growth strategy depends in part upon continuous development and improvement of attractive and effective fitness and health management programs and services. Our failure to anticipate trends or to successfully develop, improve or implement such programs or services may have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. We currently contract with certain third party partners to provide a portion of such programs and services and anticipate that this will continue to be the case. If any of such third party partners no longer makes these programs and services available to us, there is no assurance that we would be able to replace such third-party partner programs and services, and if we could not do so, our ability to pursue our growth strategies would be seriously compromised. Failure to renew existing customer contracts could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The majority of our contracts are with large corporations for the management of on-site fitness centers and corporate wellness programs. While the specific terms of such agreements vary, some contracts are subject to early termination by the corporate customer without cause. Although we have a history of consistent contract renewals, there can be no assurance that future renewals will be secured. The early termination or non-renewal of corporate contracts may have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. Our financial results are subject to discretionary spending of our customers. Our revenue, expenses and net income are subject to general economic conditions. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from companies who historically have reduced their expenditures for on-site fitness management services during economic 11 downturns. Should the economy weaken, or experience more significant recessionary pressures, corporate customers may reduce or eliminate their expenditures for on-site fitness center management services, and prospective customers may not commit resources to such services. Also, should the size of a customer’s workforce be reduced, we may have to reduce the number of staff assigned to manage a customer’s fitness center. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. We operate within a highly competitive market against formidable companies. We compete for new and existing corporate customers in a highly fragmented and competitive market. Management believes that our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including quality and depth of service, locational convenience and cost. The market for on-site fitness center management services is price-sensitive, and the health management market is dominated by competitors that are larger and have more resources and experience. From time to time, our competitors in either or both of the fitness management and health management markets may put us at a disadvantage by proposing a substantially lower price than us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, or that competitive pressures faced by us will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. We have implemented, on a limited basis, a business model for managing corporate fitness centers on a cost-neutral or for-profit basis. We have, on a limited basis, implemented a model of managing corporate fitness centers on a cost-neutral or for-profit basis. In connection with this business model, we have complete responsibility to generate and account for all fitness center revenues, which are recognized as we provide services. From the revenue we recognize and collect, we pay for all expenses to operate the fitness center. We derive our management fee revenue from the profits of the fitness center. The application of this business model may require us to fund operating losses until enough memberships are sold, and other revenue sources are generated in order to achieve profitability. We believe it may be necessary to fund operating losses from this type of business model for up to twenty-four months before the fitness center achieves profitability. Currently, existing contracts representing this business model do not present a material risk or represent a material contribution to our results of operation. However, there is no assurance that the number and scope of such contracts will not become material in the future or that we will be able to manage such centers profitably or to fund losses for these centers until profitability is achieved. Failure to identify acquisition opportunities may limit our growth. An important part of our growth has been the acquisition of complementary businesses. We may choose to continue this strategy in the future. Management’s identification of suitable acquisition candidates involves risks inherent in assessing the value, strengths, weaknesses, overall risks and profitability of acquisition candidates. Management may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates. If we do not make suitable acquisitions, we may find it more difficult to realize growth objectives and to enhance shareholder value. Future acquisitions may be dilutive to shareholders, cause us to incur additional indebtedness and large one-time expenses or create intangible assets that could result in significant amortization expense. If we spend significant funds or incur additional debt, our ability to obtain necessary financing may decline and we may become more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures. Management cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully complete any future acquisitions, that we will be able to finance acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from completed acquisitions. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions we complete. On December 23, 2005, we acquired HealthCalc.Net, Inc. In the future, we may acquire other businesses. The process of integrating new businesses into our operations poses numerous risks, including: • an inability to assimilate acquired operations, information systems and technology platforms, and internal control systems and products; • diversion of management’s attention; 12 • difficulties and uncertainties in transitioning business relationships from the acquired entity to us; and • the loss of key employees of acquired companies. If we are unsuccessful in integrating other future acquisitions into our operations, we might not realize all of the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions. In such instances, our acquisitions might not be accretive to our earnings, the costs of such acquisitions may otherwise outweigh the benefits and the market price of our common stock might decline. The loss of any of our key employees could have a material adverse effect on our performance and results of operations. Our success is highly dependent on the efforts, abilities and continued services of its executive officers, including Gregg Lehman, Ph.D., our President and Chief Executive Officer, Wesley Winnekins, our Chief Financial Officer, and other key employees. The loss of any of the executive officers or key employees may have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. We also believe that our future success will depend on our ability to attract, motivate and retain highly-skilled corporate, regional and site-based personnel. Although historically we have been successful in retaining the services of our senior management, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. Our results of operations could be adversely impacted by litigation. Because of the nature of our business, we may be subject to claims and litigation alleging negligence or other grounds for liability arising from injuries or other harm alleged by our clients’ employees. We have occasionally been named a defendant in claims relating to accidents that occurred in the fitness centers we manage. There can be no assurance that additional claims will not be filed, and that our insurance will be adequate to cover liabilities resulting from any claim. The indemnification provisions in our management agreements with customers may obligate us to pay claims that arise from our acts or omissions. A majority of our management agreements include a provision that obligates us to indemnify and hold harmless the customer and their employees, officers and directors from any and all claims, actions and/or suits (including attorneys’ fees) arising directly or indirectly from any act or omission of the Company or its employees, officers or directors in connection with the operation of our business. A majority of these management contracts also include a provision that obligates the customer to indemnify and hold us harmless against all liabilities arising out of the acts or omissions of the customer, their employees and agents. We can make no assurance that claims by our customers, or their employees, officers or directors, will not be made in the course of operating our business. Our insurance policies may not provide adequate coverage. We maintain the following types of insurance policies: commercial general liability, professional liability, automobile liability, commercial property, employee dishonesty, employment practices, directors and officers liability, workers compensation and excess umbrella liability. The policies provide for a variety of coverages and are subject to various limitations, exclusions and deductibles. While we believe our insurance policies are sufficient in amount and coverage for our current operations, there can be no assurance that coverage will continue to be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost, and there can be no assurance that the insurance proceeds, if any, will cover the full extent of loss resulting from any claims. We could experience a potential depressive effect on the price of our common stock following the exercise and sale of existing convertible securities. At December 31, 2007, the Company had outstanding stock options and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 4,032,731 shares of common stock. The exercise of such outstanding stock options and warrants, and the sale of the common stock acquired thereby, may have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. In addition, the exercise of such outstanding stock options and warrants and sale of such shares of our common stock could occur at a time when we might otherwise be able to obtain additional equity capital on terms and conditions more favorable to us. 13 Our common stock is thinly traded, and subject to volatility. Our common stock is traded on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board. Investing in OTC securities is speculative and carries a high degree of risk. Many OTC securities are relatively illiquid, or “thinly traded,” which can enhance volatility in the share price and make it difficult for investors to buy or sell without dramatically affecting the quoted price or may be unable to sell a position at a later date. As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the price of a share of our common stock. If limited trading in our stock continues, it may be difficult for investors to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. Our share repurchase plan could affect our stock price and add volatility. On March 24, 2008, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $2.5 million of the Company’s outstanding common stock. Any repurchases pursuant to this repurchase plan could affect our stock price and add volatility. The repurchase plan is at our discretion, and thus there can be no assurance that any repurchases will actually be made under the plan, nor is there any assurance that a sufficient number of shares of our common stock will be repurchased to satisfy any market expectations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that any repurchases conducted under the plan will be made at the best possible price. The announcement and existence of the share repurchase plan could also cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a plan and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. Additionally, we are permitted to and could discontinue our share repurchase plan at any time and any such discontinuation could cause the market price of our stock to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 