Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Item 4A. Executive Officers of the Company Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Shares and Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules EX-21.1 EX-23.1 EX-31.1 EX-31.2 EX-32.1 EX-32.2 i Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General DATATRAK International, Inc. (“DATATRAK” or the “Company”) is a technology and services company focused on providing a platform of software applications to the global clinical trials industry. Our customers use our software to collect, review, transmit and store clinical trial data electronically. The existence of a multi-component suite of applications in this industry is commonly referred to as an eClinical offering. Our customers are companies in the clinical pharmaceutical, biotechnology, contract research organization (“CRO”), and medical device industries. Our services assist these companies in accelerating the completion of clinical trials more efficiently and safely by providing improved data quality and real time access to information on a global scale. We currently operate in one business segment as an Application Service Provider (“ASP”) providing electronic clinical trials technology often referred to as electronic data capture (“EDC”) to the clinical trials industry. Since we began our current operations in 1997, we have devoted the majority of our efforts to developing and improving our platform offerings and establishing the market presence necessary to compete in this evolving sector. DATATRAK’s mission is to provide clinical research data to sponsors of clinical trials faster and more efficiently than manual information-processing. At this time, the Company has two distinct software offerings. The first offering is a legacy-based point solution known as DATATRAK EDC®. This software product has provided electronic solutions for the global clinical trials industry since 1993. It was acquired by DATATRAK in January of 1998 from the German Division of Electronic Data Systems. This product served as the primary offering of the Company from 1998 through February 13, 2006. This legacy-based product will be providing electronic data collection services until ongoing and possibly some new clinical trials that it services come to completion. On February 13, 2006, the Company acquired all of the outstanding stock of ClickFind, Inc. (“ClickFind”), a company focused on the application of a unified technology platform for clinical trials, located in Bryan, Texas, for a total negotiated aggregate purchase price of $18,000,000, less approximately $328,000 in certain transaction expenses and certain indebtedness of ClickFind. A component of the purchase price was paid with our common shares, priced at $9.25 per share, as determined by the terms of the acquisition agreement. The acquisition was recorded as a purchase, and as such, for the purpose of recording the acquisition, the value of the common shares used in the acquisition were valued at $7.66 per share, based on the average closing price per share of our common shares for the five business day period from February 9 through February 15, 2006. Based on the common share valuation of $7.66 per share, the total recorded acquisition cost including acquisition related expenses of $796,000 was $16,619,000. The cash portion of the purchase price, less cash acquired of $87,000 was approximately $4,669,000. The remainder of the purchase price consisted of $4,000,000 in notes payable and the issuance of approximately $7,863,000 in common shares (1,026,522 common shares). The acquired product suite is now known as DATATRAK eClinical(TM). This acquisition was made in order to appropriately react to market maturations that we believe are transitioning from point solution offerings to overall suites of capabilities encompassed in a broader information platform. The Company believed that their competitiveness in this market could be enhanced more quickly and cost effectively through an acquisition rather than internal development. This rationale was also supported by opportunity considerations in being able to take advantage of early transitions in this market as customers begin to select their platforms of choice for the next several years. As a result of the acquisition, we believe we have the most extensive software suite in the clinical trials industry. All clinical trials currently being performed with DATATRAK EDC® will continue through conclusion with that product suite. As such, we will provide two different architectures for the use of technology in clinical trials until the trials using the previous platform are completed. We will continue to support and provide, as needed, appropriate service packs for the maintenance of DATATRAK EDC®. However, no extensive, future development efforts are planned for DATATRAK EDC®, and following the conclusion of all clinical trials using DATATRAK EDC®, that 1 Table of Contents product suite will be discontinued. DATATRAK will focus its future development efforts on the continuous enhancement of its core product platform the DATATRAK eClinical(TM) software suite. Overview of the Clinical Research Industry Our customers are companies that perform clinical trials in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, CRO and medical device industry. This industry is driven by regulatory requirements which mandate that new drugs and medical devices be adequately tested in clinical trials prior to marketing these drugs and devices. Competitive pressures are forcing the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries to become more efficient when developing new products. To improve returns on research and development investments, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are continuing to develop new products, while at the same time attempting to shorten product development timelines. These efforts have placed more drugs into the clinical development process and have increased the pressure for companies to develop products faster in order to maintain growth and continue to achieve acceptable returns on research and development expenditures. Sponsors of clinical trials have attempted to create process efficiencies, control fixed costs and expand capacity by outsourcing clinical research activities. DATATRAK Software and Services Under the traditional method of clinical research, clinical trial data from each patient is recorded and maintained on paper in a binder, known as a case report form. A separate case report form is maintained for each patient. Clinical research associates then visit research sites to review the clinical trial data for accuracy and integrity. During these visits, known as monitoring visits, the research associate must review each page of each case report form. These visits may last several days, and corrections to the case report forms are frequently required before the data can be delivered to the clinical trial sponsor. Several weeks, or even months, of data may be reviewed during each monitoring visit. At the completion of a monitoring visit, the completed case report form pages are physically transferred to a central location where the data is then entered into a database for statistical compilation. Using this method of data collection and quality control, the duration of the clinical trial process, from patient visit to delivery of clean data to the clinical trial sponsor, can range from six to nine months. Such delays are significant because errors or trends may not be detected until long after the interaction between the patient and clinical investigator. During the performance of clinical trials, a variety of technology applications are used for the collection, management and storage of information. Many of these applications perform limited but important functions that contribute to the overall successful accomplishment of a clinical trial. Because the use of technology in this industry is relatively new, as compared to others, the specific functionalities of individual technology applications have advanced as single point solutions rather than an overall product suite, existing under a single application, architecture and corporate offering. As the global clinical trial market transitions from a paper-based data collection and management process to a technology-enabled process over the next several years, we believe that the clinical trials industry will increasingly demand multiple applications. As the demand for multiple applications increase, we believe sponsors of clinical research will gravitate from the challenges encountered with information collected and residing in several disparate applications to one that houses multiple applications under a single software architecture and corporate structure. This would represent a simplified approach from the workflow process of clinical trials itself and would also yield contracting advantages by being able to deal with only one vendor for a variety of necessary software applications. Our products were developed to provide clinical research data to sponsors of clinical research trials faster and more efficiently than other forms of information-processing that utilize paper. Automating data entry and review procedures can save time in the drug development and medical device approval process, and possibly result in enhanced patient safety. Our system consists of numerous modules designed for flexible adaptation to the clinical research process. We initially provide a set of electronic data forms that can be modeled to suit the needs of each particular clinical trial. Each form is then made available through data entry capability to each research site participating in the clinical trial via the Internet. Once clinical trial data has been collected and entered, the clinical trial sponsor, or other contracted vendor, can review the data remotely via the Internet. After the data is reviewed and cleansed of all entry errors, the software’s report capability can generate customized reports. Finally, the software’s export feature allows completed data and reports to be transmitted directly to a clinical trial sponsor’s in-house database. Under this model, research data is collected quicker and with greater accuracy than with physical review of paper reports. 2 Table of Contents Our DATATRAK eClinical(TM) software suite provides the following capabilities: EDC, interactive voice response systems (“IVRS”) (via phone or internet), medical coding, web-based randomization, clinical trial management system (“CTMS”), clinical data management system (“CDMS”), drug inventory management, digitized electrocardiograms, image collection, viewing and storing capabilities and workgroup collaboration capabilities. In comparison to the legacy product, DATATRAK EDC®, several of these new capabilities will represent additional revenue opportunities for the Company as the DATATRAK eClinical(TM) product offering matures. Our software products have successfully supported hundreds of international clinical trials involving thousands of patients in 59 countries. DATATRAK products have been utilized in some aspect of the clinical development of 16 separate drugs and one medical device that have received regulatory approval from either the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) or counterpart European regulatory bodies (“EMEA”). Our Enterprise Transfer program will allow customers to become empowered to design, set up and manage their clinical trials independently through our ASP delivery. The Company believes that our customers’ desire to be as independent as possible in the performance of their clinical trials is another growth aspect of this industry that is gaining momentum. Because of this anticipated industry maturation, DATATRAK is aggressively investing in the growth of its own Enterprise Consulting Group so as to provide knowledgeable guidance to customers who want to implement our complete information platform within their organizations. We intend to continue to fund the maintenance and testing of the DATATRAK EDC® software, as well as invest in the development and enhancement of DATATRAK eClinical(TM) software suite. Research and development expenses were $2,405,000, $2,310,000 and $1,650,000 in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Customers and Marketing Our customers are largely comprised of clinical trial sponsors and CROs. We market our software and services through a sales and marketing staff located in the United States and Europe. The market for the deployment of electronic clinical trials in general and for our services specifically, has been an emerging one. Our marketing efforts have included selective participation in scientific and medical meetings to promote our services and we have occasionally used direct mail and journal advertisements to build awareness of our capabilities. At the end of 2007, the Company initiated a web-casting marketing initiative to disseminate important educational messages to its client and shareholder constituencies. Our marketing and sales efforts have been focused upon building reference accounts with key customers and leveraging these relationships into new divisions of our current customers, and growing new customers through maintaining a high level of satisfaction in the delivery of our DATATRAK eClinical(TM) product suite on a worldwide basis. In December, 2007, the Company signed a five-year Enterprise Transfer Agreement with NTT DATA Corporation (“NTT DATA”) of Japan. The structure of this relationship includes the pre-purchase of a fixed volume of data items from DATATRAK, formulated as a license subscription. This relationship will enable NTT DATA to directly utilize this volume of data items and will also permit them to market and sublicense such data items to clinical trial sponsors and CROs. As such, NTT DATA has become a value-added-reseller of DATATRAK eClinical in the country of Japan, and this relationship has enabled DATATRAK to be able to potentially expand into the Japanese market in a cost-effective manner. The market for electronic clinical trials has been slow to develop. The growth of the Internet has drastically altered business strategies and pricing models in this specific sector. Most vendors have insignificant revenues and are classified as start-ups. Nonetheless, we believe that some type of automation in the collection and review of clinical trial data is inevitable. It is our belief that our software platform can be competitive in this emerging marketplace. Our products have been tested and verified to be in compliance with FDA and other regulations. Our software offering is delivered primarily via the Internet and supports multiple languages. Furthermore, many clinical trial sponsors have published 3 Table of Contents statistics indicating that the use of technology can reduce the length of time to complete a clinical trial and improve the quality of the clinical trial data. The extent to which we rely on revenue from one customer varies from period to period, depending upon, among other things, our ability to generate new business, and the timing and size of clinical trials. In light of our small revenue base, we are more dependent on major customers than many of the larger participants in the EDC industry. The table below sets forth the percentage of revenue generated from customers who accounted for more than 10% of our revenue during 2007, 2006 and 2005. Year ended December 31, Customer 2007 2006 2005 Otsuka Research Institute 15 % 44 % 59 % Gilead 14 % * * Allergan 12 % * * * Less than 10% of revenue. Contracts Our contracts provide a fixed price for each component or service to be delivered, and revenue is recognized as these components or services are delivered. We recognize revenue based on the performance or delivery of the following specified services or components in the manner described below: • Project management and data management (design, report and export) service revenue is recognized proportionally over the life of a contract as services are performed based on the contractual billing rate per hour for those services. • Data item revenue is earned based on a price per data unit as data items are entered into DATATRAK’s hosting facility. • Classroom training services revenue is recognized as classroom training is completed, at rates based on the length of the training program. • Internet-based training services revenue is recognized on a per user basis as self-study courses are completed. • Help desk revenue is recognized based on a monthly price per registered user or site under the contract. Services provided by us that are in addition to those provided for in our contracts are billed on a fee for service basis as services are completed. Costs associated with contract revenue are recognized as incurred. Costs that are paid directly by our clients, and for which we do not bear the risk of economic loss, are excluded from revenue. The termination of a standard contract will not result in a material adjustment to the revenue or costs previously recognized. Competition We compete in this market on the strength of our software’s functionality, design architecture and data entry and review tools, which we believe equal or exceed those available in the market. We believe that our greatest strength is directly related to our offering of a broad information platform that can be used throughout an organization to efficiently manage their clinical trials. The Company is working hard to accomplish its goal of becoming the “Desktop” for the clinical trials industry. The Company’s competition is paper as well as other technology solutions. The electronic clinical trials technology market is highly competitive and fragmented. The largest competitor is the traditional paper-based method of collecting clinical trial data. In addition, technology applications in this and every industry are always 4 Table of Contents emerging and are characterized by rapid evolutions. At times, the Company also competes with both internal initiatives at our customers as well as those in the CRO industry. Our major competitors include other software vendors, clinical trial data service companies and large pharmaceutical companies currently developing their own in-house technology. Our DATATRAK eClinical suite has a variety of unified offerings which includes: EDC, IVRS, medical coding, web-based randomization, CTMS, CDMS, drug inventory management, digitized electrocardiograms, image collection, viewing and storing capabilities and workgroup collaboration capabilities. Each of these individual offerings has distinct single point solution competitors in the clinical trial market. Sponsors of clinical research have a variety of choices with which to satisfy each of these capabilities for their clinical trials from many different organizations. We are not aware of any competitors that have all of these individual components contained under one software architecture. Many current and potential future competitors have or may have substantially greater financial and technical resources, greater name recognition and more extensive customer bases that could be leveraged, thereby gaining market share or product acceptance to our detriment. We may not be able to capture or establish the market presence necessary to effectively compete in this emerging sector of the clinical research industry. Clinical trial sponsors also may continue to contract with individual vendors instead of utilizing our single software solution. We are aware of other EDC systems that compete or, in the future, may compete directly with one or more of the software product offerings included in our DATATRAK eClinical(TM) software suite. There are other companies that have developed or are in the process of developing technologies that are, or, in the future, may be, the basis for competitive products. Some of those technologies may have an entirely different approach or means of accomplishing the desired effects as our product. Either existing or new competitors may also develop products that are superior to or that otherwise achieve greater market acceptance than our software. In addition, we believe that certain large companies in the information technology industry may be forming alliances and attempting to capitalize on the data delivery options offered by the Internet. To the extent that our approach to EDC may gain market acceptance, larger companies in the information technology industry may develop competing technology to our detriment. Regulatory Matters The FDA has issued guidance and regulations on the use of computer systems in clinical trials relating to standard operating procedures, data entry, system design, security, system dependability and controls, personnel training, records inspection and certification of electronic signatures. Based on our review, we believe that our software products comply with these guidances and regulations. Any release of FDA guidance that is significantly inconsistent with the design of our software may cause us to incur substantial costs to remain in compliance with FDA guidances and regulations. We are continuing to monitor the FDA guidance to ensure compliance. In addition to FDA guidance and regulations, we also comply with International Conference on Harmonization (“ICH”) Regulations guidance for good clinical practices. These guidances have been developed by the ICH and have been subject to consultation by regulatory parties, in accordance with the ICH process. The regulatory bodies consist of representatives from the European Union, Japan and the U.S. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) applies to health care providers, health plans and health care clearinghouses, or covered entities. Under HIPAA, covered entities are required to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of certain electronic patient information they collect, maintain, use or transmit. Although we are not a covered entity under HIPAA, we have taken steps, including encryption techniques, to ensure the confidentiality of all electronic patient information that is captured and transmitted through the use of our software. Potential Liability and Insurance Our services are supported by telecommunications equipment, software, operating protocols and proprietary applications for high-speed transmission of large quantities of data among multiple locations. In such operations, it is possible that data files may be lost, altered or distorted. Our software and its future enhancements or adaptations may contain undetected design faults and software “bugs” that, despite our testing, are discovered only after the 5 Table of Contents system has been installed and used by customers. Such faults or errors could cause delays or require design modifications on our part. In addition, clinical pharmaceutical and medical device research requires the review and handling of large amounts of patient data. Potential liability may arise from a breach of contract or a loss of or unauthorized release of clinical trial data. Contracts with our customers are designed to limit our liability for damages resulting from errors in the transportation and handling of patient data. Nevertheless, we may still be subject to claims for data losses in the transportation and handling of data over our information technology network. If we were forced to undertake the defense of, or were found financially responsible for, claims based upon the foregoing or related risks we could incur significant costs relating to these claims, and our financial resources could be diminished. We maintain an errors and omissions professional liability insurance policy to cover claims in an amount up to $5,000,000 that may be brought against us. This coverage may not be adequate, and insurance may not continue to be available to us, in the future. Intellectual Property Intellectual property rights are significant to our ongoing operations and future opportunities. We have taken steps to secure patent protection for recently-developed database technology. Our software and business processes embody numerous trade secrets which we protect through various physical and technical security measures, as well as through our agreements. Modules of our product suite, related manuals and other written and graphical materials are subject to copyright protection. Our DATATRAK® brand is at the heart of a family of registered trademarks and service marks that identify and distinguish our software and services in the market. We sell our services and license the use of our software and the right to market DATATRAK products and services subject to contract provisions intended to provide appropriate protection to these valuable intellectual property assets. Employees As of February 29, 2008, we had 81 full-time employees. The 81 employees include five of our German entity employees for which we have entered into agreements whereby their employment will terminate on March 31, 2008. None of our employees are represented by a union, and we consider relations with our employees to be satisfactory. We have employment agreements with all of our executive officers. Due to the early stage of development of our industry and business, the loss of the services of any of our executive officers could put us at a competitive disadvantage, since we would need to attract a qualified new executive to fill the vacancy. To address these risks, we must, among other things, continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. Available Information Our Internet address is www.datatrak.net. Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports are accessible through the “Investor Relations” section of our Web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC” or the “Commission”). The information on our Web site is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this report or incorporated into any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. Upon the receipt of a written request from any shareholder we will mail, at no charge to the shareholder, a copy of our Annual Report, including the financial statements and schedules required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 13a-1 under the Exchange Act, for our most recent fiscal year. 6 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Certain statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”). All statements that address operating performance, events or developments that we anticipate will occur in the future, including statements related to future revenue, profits, expenses, income, cash flow and earnings per share or statements expressing general optimism about future results are forward-looking statements. In addition, words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to the safe harbors created in the Exchange Act. Forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions and risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results or performance to be materially different from any future results or performance expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We have identified the following important factors, which could cause our actual operational or financial results to differ materially from any projections, estimates, forecasts or other forward-looking statements made by or on our behalf. Under no circumstances should the factors listed below be construed as an exhaustive list of all factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to review or confirm analysts’ expectations or estimates or to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements contained herein to take into account events or circumstances that occur after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, we do not undertake any responsibility to update publicly the occurrence of unanticipated events, which may cause actual results to differ from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements contained herein. Even if existing sales trends continue, we will need to renegotiate the ClickFind Notes or raise additional capital in order to meet our $3,000,000 February 1, 2009 payment obligation. As of March 14, 2008, the Company has a remaining balloon payment obligation under the ClickFind Notes in the amount of $3,000,000 that is due and payable February 1, 2009. The Company is continuing our efforts to renegotiate the payment terms for these notes. If we are unable to renegotiate the ClickFind Notes or raise additional capital we do not believe we will be able to meet our February 1, 2009 obligation, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We will need to raise additional funds and take significant cost-cutting initiatives to meet our working capital requirements beyond 2008, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to raise such additional funds. As discussed above, even if sales trends continue, we will need to raise additional funds for fiscal 2009 to meet our $3,000,000 February 1, 2009 payment obligation under the ClickFind Notes and other non ClickFind Notes related working capital requirements. The failure to obtain adequate additional funds would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such additional financing or that, if available, such additional financing would not result in substantial dilution to our shareholders or otherwise be on terms disadvantageous to us. Furthermore, significant cost-cutting initiatives could materially harm our long-term prospects. We have a limited operating history and recorded a loss in 2007. We began providing EDC services in 1997 and have a limited operating history upon which our performance may be evaluated. Although we were profitable in 2004 and 2005, we had previously recognized operating losses in each year since 1997, and again recorded losses in 2006 and 2007. Our cumulative operating loss since 1997 from EDC operations totaled $51,780,000 at December 31, 2007. Any number of factors, including, but not limited to, termination or delays in contracts, inability to grow and convert backlog into revenue or being unable to quickly reduce costs if required, could cause us to record losses in future periods. 7 Table of Contents If we do not continue to enhance our software, we may not be able to meet the evolving needs of our customers. Although our proprietary software solutions have been used in clinical trials, continued enhancement is necessary to provide additional functions and services to meet the ever-changing needs and expectations of our customers. To date we have had limited EDC revenue from which to support the costs of this continued software enhancement. Our potential future revenue may not be sufficient to absorb corporate overhead and other fixed operating costs that will be necessary for our future success. Our quarterly results fluctuate significantly. We are subject to significant fluctuations in quarterly results caused by many factors, including • our success in obtaining new contracts, • the size and duration of the clinical trials in which we participate, and • the timing of clinical trial sponsor decisions to conduct new clinical trials or cancel or delay ongoing trials. Our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future revenue and to a certain extent are fixed. We cannot make assurances as to our revenues in any given period, and we may be unable to adjust expenses in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall. As a result of our relatively small revenue base, any significant shortfall in revenue recognized during a particular period could have an immediate adverse effect on our income from operations and financial condition. Volatility in our quarterly results may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Our business strategies are unproven and we are in an early stage of development. Our efforts to establish a standardized EDC process for collection and management of clinical research data represent a significant departure from the traditional clinical research practices of clinical trial sponsors. The long-term viability of our business remains unproven. Our strategy may not gain acceptance among sponsors of clinical research, research sites or investigators. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in their early stages of development, particularly companies in new and rapidly evolving markets. We may lose revenue if we experience delays in clinical trials or if we lose contracts. Although our contracts provide that we are entitled to receive revenue earned through the date of termination, our customers generally may delay or terminate a clinical trial or our contract related to such trial at any time. The length of a typical clinical trial contract varies from several months to several years. Clinical trial sponsors may delay or terminate clinical trials for several reasons, including • unexpected results or adverse patient reactions to a potential product, • inadequate patient enrollment or investigator recruitment, • manufacturing problems resulting in shortages of a potential product, or • sponsor decisions to de-emphasize or terminate a particular trial or drug. We may lose revenues if a clinical trial sponsor decides to delay or terminate a trial in which we participate. We may lose future revenue if our major customers decrease their research and development expenditures, or if we lose any of our major customers. Our primary customers are companies in the pharmaceutical industry. Our business is substantially dependent on the research and development expenditures of companies in that industry. The extent to which we rely on revenue from one customer varies from period to period, depending upon, among other things, our ability to generate new business and the timing and size of clinical trials. In light of our small revenue base, we are more dependent on 8 Table of Contents major customers than many of the larger participants in the EDC industry. In fiscal 2007, our largest three customers accounted for 15%, 14% and 12% of our revenues, or 41% in the aggregate. For example, one of our clients accounted for 44% of our total revenue in 2006, but only accounted for 15% of our total revenue in 2007. The decrease in revenue from this one customer accounted for approximately 87% of the decrease in our total revenue for 2007. Our operations could be materially and adversely affected by, among other things: • any economic downturn or consolidation in the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industries; • any decrease in these industries’ research and development expenditures; • changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate; or • any decline in business with any of our major customers. Changes in government regulations relating to the health care industry could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our services. Demand for our services is largely a function of the regulatory requirements associated with the approval of a New Drug Application by the FDA. In recent years, efforts have been made to streamline the drug approval process and coordinate U.S. standards with those of other developed countries. Changes in the level of regulation, including a relaxation in regulatory requirements or the introduction of simplified drug approval procedures could reduce the demand for our services. Several competing proposals to reform the system of health care delivery in the United States have been considered by Congress from time to time. To date, none of these proposals have been adopted. The FDA’s guidelines and rules related to the use of computerized systems in clinical trials are still in the early stages of development. Our software may not continue to comply with these guidelines and rules as they develop, and corresponding changes to our product may be required. Any release of FDA guidance that is significantly inconsistent with the design of our software may cause us to incur substantial costs to remain in compliance with FDA guidance and regulations. We may not be able to capture or establish the market presence necessary to compete in the EDC market. The EDC market, which is still developing and must compete with the traditional paper method of collecting clinical trial data, is highly fragmented. The major competitors in the EDC market include • EDC software vendors, • clinical trial data service companies that use paper for data collection, • vendors offering single component solutions and • in-house development efforts within large pharmaceutical companies. Our current and potential future competitors have or may have substantially greater resources, greater name recognition and more extensive customer bases that could be leveraged, thereby gaining market share or product acceptance to our detriment. We may not be able to capture or establish the market presence necessary to effectively compete in this emerging sector of the clinical research industry. We may be subject to liability for potential breaches of contracts or a loss of or unauthorized release of clinical trial data. Our services are supported by telecommunications equipment, software, operating protocols and proprietary applications for high-speed transmission of large quantities of data among multiple locations. In addition, clinical pharmaceutical and medical device research requires the review and handling of large amounts of patient data. 9 Table of Contents Potential liability may arise from a breach of contract or a loss of or unauthorized release of clinical trial data. If we were forced to undertake the defense of, or were found financially responsible for, claims based upon these types of losses, our financial resources could be diminished. We maintain a $5,000,000 errors and omissions professional liability insurance policy to cover claims that may be brought against us. This coverage may not be adequate, and insurance may not continue to be available to us, in the future. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. DATATRAK’s foreign results of operations are subject to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations through both foreign currency transaction and foreign currency translation adjustments. The Company manages its risk to foreign currency transaction adjustments by maintaining foreign currency bank accounts in currencies in which we regularly transact business. DATATRAK does not currently hedge against the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. DATATRAK’s financial position and results of operations are impacted by translation adjustments caused by the conversion of foreign currency accounts and operating results into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. During 2007 the average exchange rate between the euro and the U.S. dollar increased by approximately 9.1% compared to the year ended December 31, 2006. The conversion of the Company’s foreign operations into U.S. dollars upon consolidation resulted in a net loss that was approximately $387,000 more than would have been recorded had the exchange rate between the euro and the U.S. dollar remained consistent with 2006 rates. As a result, any continued increase in the average exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the euro will have a negative impact on our reported results. Any significant volatility in the exchange rates may have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our competitive position and business may be adversely affected if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or if we infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Intellectual property rights, including patent rights, are significant to our ongoing operations and future opportunities. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to secure our own intellectual property rights (e.g., patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets), obtain licenses to technology owned by third parties when necessary, and conduct our business without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. There can be no assurance, however, that our proprietary rights will provide us significant protection or commercial advantage or that measures taken to protect our confidential information will adequately prevent the disclosure or misuse of such confidential information. In addition, there can be no assurance that, in the future, a third party will not assert that we are violating their proprietary rights, including that our technologies, products or services infringe their patents. As indicated in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” such a claim was asserted against the Company in 2006 and was settled on July 31, 2007. In the event of a claim, we could incur substantial costs and diversion of the time and attention of management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any such claims. Any meritorious claim of intellectual property infringement against us could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and business. We may not be able to successfully integrate and profitably manage our acquired business and our new software offering without substantial costs, delays or other problems. Acquisitions also may involve a number of special risks some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Examples of special risks relating to acquisitions include: • adverse short-term effects on our reported operating results; • potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; • diversion of management’s attention; • dependence on retention, hiring and training of key personnel; and • risks associated with unanticipated problems or legal liabilities. 10 Table of Contents We will incur increased costs associated with the integration of our new product suite. All clinical trials currently being performed with DATATRAK EDC® will continue through conclusion with that product suite. As such, we will provide two different architectures for the use of technology in clinical trials until the trials using the previous platform are finished. We will incur additional costs by continuing to support and provide, as needed, appropriate service packs for the maintenance of DATATRAK EDC® as well as supporting and providing appropriate service packs for the maintenance of DATATRAK eClinical(TM). We will also incur additional costs to integrate the DATATRAK eClinical(TM) product into our current operating systems. Furthermore, our two product offerings will run on parallel systems, as such we will incur additional costs of maintaining two parallel production systems. We have Anti-takeover Provisions and Preferred Share Purchase Rights. Our Articles of Incorporation and Code of Regulations contain provisions that may discourage a third party from acquiring, or attempting to acquire us. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay for our common shares. In addition preferred shares of our stock can be issued by our Board of Directors, without shareholder approval, whether under our shareholder rights plan or for other uses determined by the Board. The issuance of preferred shares may adversely affect the rights of common shareholders, the market price of our common shares and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common shares. At the present time, we do not plan to issue any preferred shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 