ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Certain statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”). All statements that address operating performance, events or developments that we anticipate will occur in the future, including statements related to future revenue, liquidity, profits, expenses, income, cash flow and earnings per share or statements expressing general optimism about future results are forward-looking statements. In addition, words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to the safe harbors created in the Exchange Act. 6 Table of Contents Forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions and risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results, performance or liquidity to be materially different from any future results or performance expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We have identified the following important factors, which could cause our actual operational, financial results or liquidity to differ materially from any projections, estimates, forecasts or other forward-looking statements made by or on our behalf. Under no circumstances should the factors listed below be construed as an exhaustive list of all factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to review or confirm analysts’ expectations or estimates or to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements contained herein to take into account events or circumstances that occur after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, we do not undertake any responsibility to update publicly the occurrence of unanticipated events, which may cause actual results to differ from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements contained herein. Our independent registered public accounting firm have expressed doubt about our ability to continue as a “going concern”. Our independent registered public accounting firm have included an explanatory paragraph in their unqualified report on our December 31, 2008 financial statements that expresses substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. A “going concern” opinion indicates that the financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern and do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. This “going concern” opinion could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital or could have an adverse impact on our relationships with customers and therefore could have a material effect on our business. Disruptions in the financial and credit markets may adversely impact the availability and cost of credit and the spending of our customers as well as our ability to raise additional capital, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. As noted in the discussions of other risks that we face, demand for our products and services depends in large part upon the level of capital and research and development expenditures by many of our customers. Decreased capital and customer spending as well as our potentially limited access to additional funds could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our services and our business, results of operations and financial condition. Disruptions in the financial markets, including the bankruptcy or restructuring of certain financial institutions, may adversely impact the availability of credit already arranged and the availability and cost of credit in the future, which could result in the delay or cancellation of clinical trials on which our business depends. Our failure to obtain additional funds, if need be, to meet payment obligations and working capital requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, the disruptions in the financial markets may also have an adverse impact on regional economies or the world economy, which could negatively impact the capital and maintenance expenditures of our customers. There can be no assurance that government responses to the disruptions of the financial markets will restore confidence, stabilize markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. We may need to raise additional funds and take further cost-cutting initiatives to meet our working capital requirements and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain new business and/or maintain existing trials in the current economic climate. The failure to maintain our existing customer relationships and related backlog and obtain ample new business from existing or new customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase the Company’s backlog during this very difficult business environment. Furthermore, additional cost-cutting initiatives could materially harm our long-term prospects. 7 Table of Contents We may lose revenue if we experience delays in clinical trials or if we lose contracts. Although our contracts provide that we are entitled to receive revenue earned through the date of termination, our customers generally may delay or terminate a clinical trial or our contract related to such trial at any time. The length of a typical clinical trial contract varies from several months to several years. Clinical trial sponsors may delay or terminate clinical trials for several reasons, including: • unexpected results or adverse patient reactions to a potential product; • inadequate patient enrollment or investigator recruitment; • manufacturing problems resulting in shortages of a potential product; or • sponsor decisions to de-emphasize or terminate a particular trial or drug. We may lose revenues if a clinical trial sponsor decides to delay or terminate a trial in which we participate. We may lose future revenue if our major customers decrease their research and development expenditures, or if we lose any of our major customers. Our primary customers are companies in the pharmaceutical industry. Our business is substantially dependent on the research and development expenditures of companies in that industry. The extent to which we rely on revenue from one customer varies from period to period, depending upon, among other things, our ability to generate new business and the timing and size of clinical trials. In light of our small revenue base, we are more dependent on major customers than many of the larger participants in the EDC industry. In fiscal 2008, our three largest customers accounted for 18%, 15% and 8% of our revenues, or 41% in the aggregate. Our operations could be materially and adversely affected by, among other things: • any economic downturn or consolidation in the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industries; • any decrease in these industries’ research and development expenditures; • changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate; or • any decline in business with any of our major customers. Our quarterly results fluctuate significantly. We are subject to significant fluctuations in quarterly results caused by many factors, including: • our success in obtaining new contracts; • the size and duration of the clinical trials in which we participate; and • the timing of clinical trial sponsor decisions to conduct new clinical trials or cancel or delay ongoing trials. Our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future revenue and to a certain extent are fixed. We cannot make assurances as to our revenues in any given period, and we may be unable to adjust expenses in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall. As a result of our relatively small revenue base, any significant shortfall in revenue recognized during a particular period could have an immediate adverse effect on our income from operations and financial condition. Volatility in our quarterly results may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. 8 Table of Contents Our business strategies are unproven and we are in an early stage of development. Our efforts to establish a standardized EDC process for collection and management of clinical research data represent a significant departure from the traditional clinical research practices of clinical trial sponsors. The long-term viability of our business remains unproven. Our strategy may not gain acceptance among sponsors of clinical research, research sites or investigators. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in their early stages of development, particularly companies in new and rapidly evolving markets. Although we were profitable in 2004 and 2005, we had previously recognized operating losses in each year since 1997, and again recorded losses in 2006 through 2008. Our cumulative operating loss since 1997 totaled $71,253,000 at December 31, 2008. Any number of factors, including, but not limited to, termination or delays in contracts, inability to grow and convert backlog into revenue or being unable to quickly reduce costs if required, could cause us to record losses in future periods. If we fail to continue to meet all applicable Nasdaq Capital Market requirements, our common shares could be delisted. If delisting occurs, it would adversely affect the market liquidity of our common shares. Our common shares are currently traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol “DATA.” If we fail to meet any of the continued listing standards of the Nasdaq Capital Market, our common shares could be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. These continued listing standards include specifically enumerated criteria, such as: • a $1.00 minimum closing bid price; • shareholders’ equity of $2.5 million, market value of publicly-held shares of $35 million, or net income from continuing operations of $500,000 in the most recently completed fiscal year or in two of the last three most recently completed fiscal years; • 500,000 shares of publicly-held common stock with a market value of at least $1 million; • 300 round-lot shareholders; and • compliance with Nasdaq’s corporate governance requirements, as well as additional or more stringent criteria that may be applied in the exercise of Nasdaq’s discretionary authority. On June 16, 2008, the Company received a notice (the “Notice”) from NASDAQ indicating the Company is not in compliance with NASDAQ’s requirements for continued listing because, for the 30 consecutive business days prior to June 10, 2008, the bid price of the Company’s common shares closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion under NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4) (the “Minimum Bid Price Rule”). The bid price of our common shares has remained below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement since the receipt of the Notice. NASDAQ stated in the Notice that in accordance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(8)(D), the Company would be provided 180 calendar days, or until December 8, 2008 (the “Cure Period”), to regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule. On October 22, 2008, the Company received a second notice (the “Second Bid Price Notice”) from NASDAQ stating as a result of unprecedented turmoil in U.S. and world financial markets NASDAQ was suspending its bid price requirement for a period of time which would extend the Company’s Cure Period until March 13, 2009. The Second Bid Price Notice has no effect on the listing of the Company’s common shares at this time. The Second Bid Price Notice also stated that if, at any time before March 13, 2009, the bid price of the Company’s common shares closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days, NASDAQ will provide the Company written notification that it has achieved compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule. However, NASDAQ has the discretion to require a period in excess of ten consecutive business days, but generally no more than twenty consecutive business days, before determining that the ability to maintain long-term compliance has been demonstrated. In addition, the Notice stated that if the Company does not regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price rule by March 13, 2009, NASDAQ will determine whether the Company meets all other NASDAQ Capital Market initial listing criteria set forth in NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c). If the Company meets all other initial listing criteria at that time, NASDAQ will notify the Company that it has been granted an additional 180 calendar days to comply with the Minimum Bid Price Rule. If the Company is not eligible 9 Table of Contents for an additional compliance period, NASDAQ will provide the Company with written notification that the Company’s common shares will be delisted. At that time, the Company may, pursuant NASDAQ rules, appeal any delisting determination by NASDAQ to a NASDAQ Listings Qualifications Panel. The Company has been monitoring the bid price for its common shares since receipt of the Notice, and on January 7, 2009, it received a letter from NASDAQ that it had decided to extend the suspension of the Minimum Bid Price Rule and enforcement of such rule is scheduled to resume on April 20, 2009. Further, this letter from NASDAQ indicated that the Company will receive another notice from NASDAQ prior to the resumption of the Minimum Bid Price Rule and such letter will specify the number of calendar days remaining in the Company’s compliance period and the specific date by which it needs to regain compliance. The Company will continue to monitor the bid price for its common shares while it awaits NASDAQ’s follow-up letter, but has not determined what action, if any, it will take in response to the NASDAQ notifications. The Cure Period described above relates exclusively to our non-compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule. We may be delisted during the Cure Period for failure to maintain compliance with any other continued listing requirements that occur during this period including the stockholders’ equity requirement discussed below. Even if we are successful in curing a non-compliance, NASDAQ may seek to delist us for our failure to meet the enumerated conditions for continued listing. On August 18, 2008, the Company received a notice (the “Stockholders’ Equity Notice”) from NASDAQ indicating the Company is not in compliance with NASDAQ’s requirements for continued listing because the Company was not in compliance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(3) (the “Minimum Equity Rule”), which requires the Company to have a minimum of $2,500,000 in stockholders’ equity or $35,000,000 market value of listed securities or $500,000 of net income from continuing operations for the most recently completed fiscal year or two of the three most recently completed fiscal years. NASDAQ requested in the Stockholders’ Equity Notice that the Company submit a plan to regain compliance under the Minimum Equity Rule on or before September 3, 2008. The Company subsequently submitted a proposal to NASDAQ outlining its plan to achieve and sustain compliance with the Minimum Equity Rule and requested an extension of time in order to execute its proposal. On December 2, 2008, the Company received a letter from NASDAQ informing it that the NASDAQ staff could not provide the Company with additional time to regain compliance with the Minimum Equity Rule, and unless the Company filed an appeal to the NASDAQ staff’s determination, the Company’s common shares would be suspended at the opening of business on December 11, 2008 and a Form 25-NSE would be filed with the SEC which would remove the Company common shares from listing and registration on the NASDAQ Stock Market. On December 9, 2008, the Company filed a request for a hearing in front of the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel (the “Panel”) to appeal the NASDAQ staff’s determination pursuant to the procedures set forth in the NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4800 Series. This request stayed the suspension of the Company’s common shares and the filing of the Form 25-NSE pending the Panel’s decision. On January 8, 2009, the Company presented its plan to regain compliance with the Minimum Equity Rule and all other applicable requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market to the Panel, and requested an exception until June 1, 2009 by which date the Company believes that it will be able to demonstrate such compliance. The Company is currently awaiting the Panel’s final determination as to whether it will grant the Company’s request for exception. If our common shares are delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, trading of our common shares most likely will be conducted in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities, such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. Such delisting could also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing. If we do not continue to enhance our software, we may not be able to meet the evolving needs of our customers. Although our proprietary software solutions have been used in clinical trials, continued enhancement is necessary to provide additional functions and services to meet the ever-changing needs and expectations of our customers. To date we have had limited revenue from which to support the costs of this continued software enhancement. Our potential future revenue may not be sufficient to absorb corporate overhead and other fixed operating costs that will be necessary for our future success. 10 Table of Contents Changes in government regulations relating to the health care industry could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our services. Demand for our services is largely a function of the regulatory requirements associated with the approval of a New Drug Application by the FDA. In recent years, efforts have been made to streamline the drug approval process and coordinate U.S. standards with those of other developed countries. Changes in the level of regulation, including a relaxation in regulatory requirements or the introduction of simplified drug approval procedures could reduce the demand for our services. Several competing proposals to reform the system of health care delivery in the United States have been considered by Congress from time to time. To date, none of these proposals have been adopted. The FDA’s guidelines and rules related to the use of computerized systems in clinical trials are still in the early stages of development. Our software may not continue to comply with these guidelines and rules as they develop, and corresponding changes to our product may be required. Any release of FDA guidance that is significantly inconsistent with the design of our software may cause us to incur substantial costs to remain in compliance with FDA guidance and regulations. We may not be able to capture or establish the market presence necessary to compete in the EDC market. The EDC market, which is still developing and must compete with the traditional paper method of collecting clinical trial data, is highly fragmented. The major competitors in the EDC market include: • EDC software vendors; • clinical trial data service companies that use paper for data collection; • vendors offering single component solutions; and • in-house development efforts within large pharmaceutical companies. Our current and potential future competitors have or may have substantially greater resources, greater name recognition and more extensive customer bases that could be leveraged, thereby gaining market share or product acceptance to our detriment. We may not be able to capture or establish the market presence necessary to effectively compete in this emerging sector of the clinical research industry. We may be subject to liability for potential breaches of contracts or a loss of or unauthorized release of clinical trial data. Our services are supported by telecommunications equipment, software, operating protocols and proprietary applications for high-speed transmission of large quantities of data among multiple locations. In addition, clinical pharmaceutical and medical device research requires the review and handling of large amounts of patient data. Potential liability may arise from a breach of contract or a loss of or unauthorized release of clinical trial data. If we were forced to undertake the defense of, or were found financially responsible for, claims based upon these types of losses, our financial resources could be diminished. We maintain a $5,000,000 errors and omissions professional liability insurance policy to cover claims that may be brought against us. This coverage may not be adequate, and insurance may not continue to be available to us in the future. Our competitive position and business may be adversely affected if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or if we infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Intellectual property rights, including patent rights, are significant to our ongoing operations and future opportunities. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to secure our own intellectual property rights (e.g., patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets), obtain licenses to technology owned by third parties when necessary, and conduct our business without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. There can be no assurance, however, that our proprietary rights will provide us significant protection or commercial advantage or that measures taken to protect our confidential information will adequately prevent the disclosure or misuse of such confidential information. In addition, there can be no assurance that, in the future, a third party will not assert that we are violating their proprietary rights, including that our technologies, products or services infringe their patents. In the event of a claim, we could incur substantial costs and diversion of the time and attention of management and 11 Table of Contents technical personnel in defending ourselves against any such claims. Any meritorious claim of intellectual property infringement against us could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and business. We have Anti-takeover Provisions and Preferred Share Purchase Rights. Our Articles of Incorporation and Code of Regulations contain provisions that may discourage a third party from acquiring, or attempting to acquire us. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay for our common shares. In addition, preferred shares of our stock can be issued by our Board of Directors, without shareholder approval, whether under our shareholder rights plan or for other uses determined by the Board. The issuance of preferred shares may adversely affect the rights of common shareholders, the market price of our common shares and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common shares. At the present time, we do not plan to issue any preferred shares. If we do not continue to attract and retain key personnel, we will be unable to effectively conduct our business. The market for technical, regulatory and other personnel essential to the development of our software, delivery of our services and management of our business is very competitive. If we cannot retain the employees we need, or replace key employees following their departure, our ability to develop and manage our business will be impaired, and this could adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 