ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. You should carefully consider these risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K. Any of these risks could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our business is at an early stage of development, and we must overcome numerous risks and uncertainties to become successful. Our business is at an early stage of development, in that we do not yet have product candidates in late-stage clinical trials or commercially available. Our ability to develop product candidates that progress to and through commercial launch is subject to our ability to, among other things: achieve success in Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials; collaborate successfully with clinical trial sites, academic institutions, physician investigators, clinical research organizations and other third parties; manufacture product candidates at commercially reasonable costs; obtain required regulatory clearances and approvals; maintain and enforce adequate intellectual property protection for our product candidates; and obtain financing on commercially reasonable terms to fund our operations. There are many reasons why we may need to delay or abandon efforts to research, develop or obtain regulatory approvals to market our product candidates. Our product candidates require significant clinical testing prior to regulatory approval in the United States and other countries. It may also be difficult to assess the success or failure of any of our clinical trials for many reasons, including but not limited to the subjectivity and changing landscape that accompanies the benefit-to-risk assessment in any given patient population, and because subpopulation data might not be available at the time we report top-line data or other results. Our product candidates also may prove to have undesirable and unintended side effects or other characteristics adversely affecting their safety, efficacy 21 Table of Contents or cost-effectiveness that could prevent or limit their approval for marketing and successful commercial use. In addition, they may not prove to be more effective for treating disease than current therapies. Competitors may also have proprietary rights that prevent us from developing and marketing our products, or those competitors may sell similar, superior or lower-cost products that make our products unsuitable for marketing. Our product candidates also may not be able to be manufactured in commercial quantities at an acceptable cost. All of the foregoing factors could delay or prevent us from commercializing and marketing our product candidates, which would materially adversely affect our business. Our research and development programs are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. The science and technology of telomere biology and telomerase, as well as receptor-targeting peptides that cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB), are relatively new. There is no precedent for the successful commercialization of therapeutic product candidates based on these technologies. In addition, we, our licensees, and our collaborators must undertake significant research and development activities to develop product candidates based on these technologies, which will require additional funding and may take years to accomplish, if ever. Because of the significant scientific, regulatory and commercial milestones that must be reached for any of our research and development programs to be successful, any program may be delayed or abandoned, even after we have expended significant resources on it. Such a delay or abandonment of our programs in telomerase technology or receptor-targeting peptide technology to cross the BBB, would have a material adverse effect on our business. In our Phase 1 clinical trials of imetelstat, we observed dose-limiting toxicities, including thrombocytopenia when the drug was used as a single agent, and neutropenia when the drug was used in combination with paclitaxel, as well as a low incidence of severe infusion reactions. We also did not observe single-agent efficacy with imetelstat in our Phase 1 program. Further, the information we have related to the ability of GRN1005 to penetrate brain tissue and its anti-tumor activity is preliminary and based on Phase 1 clinical trials conducted by Angiochem. In the Phase 1 trials of GRN1005, Grade 4 neutropenia was the primary dose-limiting toxicity observed. In our Phase 2 clinical trials of imetelstat or GRN1005, we may observe similar dose-limiting toxicities or other safety issues which may require us to conduct additional, unforeseen trials or abandon these programs entirely. If we are not able to divest our stem cell assets for substantial financial value, or at all, the proceeds of the divestiture will be limited and our stock price may decline. Our stem cell programs are at an early stage of development, and we can give no assurance regarding the consideration we will receive, if any, for their disposition. In addition, some of our investors purchased shares of our common stock because they were interested in the opportunities presented by our human embryonic stem cell programs. Thus, certain stockholders attribute substantial financial value to our stem cell assets, and that we will receive such value through the divestiture of the stem cell programs. However, we can give no assurance that we will receive the financial value that these stockholders may attribute to our stem cell assets, or any financial value at all, and, as a result, our stock price may decline. RISKS RELATED TO CLINICAL AND COMMERCIALIZATION ACTIVITIES Our ability to complete ongoing clinical trials on a timely basis is subject to risks and uncertainties related to factors such as patient enrollment, drug supply and regulatory approval. Completion of ongoing clinical trials of our product candidates may be delayed, or not occur, due to insufficient patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size and nature of the patient populations, the nature of the protocols, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trials. Other delays could be caused by: disruptions in drug supply; not receiving timely regulatory clearances or approvals, including, for example, acceptance of new manufacturing specifications by regulatory authorities; unavailability of any study-related treatment (including comparator therapy); or unanticipated issues with key vendors of clinical services, such as contract research organizations. 22 Table of Contents For example, enrollment in our Phase 2 trials of imetelstat in multiple myeloma and essential thrombocythemia has been slower than expected and with respect to our clinical studies of GRN1005, we have aggressive enrollment goals. Delays in timely completion of clinical testing of our product candidates could increase research and development costs and could prevent or would delay us from obtaining regulatory approval for our product candidates, both of which would likely have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, we can give no assurance that our enrollment goals will be met as we have projected, or at all. Delays in the initiation of later-stage clinical testing of our current product candidates could result in increased costs to us and would delay our ability to generate revenues. The commencement of later-stage clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in: demonstrating sufficient safety and efficacy in Phase 2 clinical trials to obtain regulatory clearance to commence a Phase 3 clinical trial; obtaining sufficient funding; manufacturing sufficient quantities of drug; producing drugs that meet the quality standards of the FDA and other regulatory agencies; ensuring our ability to manufacture drugs at acceptable costs for later-stage clinical trials and commercialization; obtaining clearance or approval of a proposed trial design or manufacturing specifications from the FDA and other regulatory authorities; reaching agreement on acceptable terms with our collaborators on all aspects of the clinical trial, including the contract research organizations and the trial sites; and obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site. We may not be able to manufacture at costs or scales necessary to conduct our clinical programs or potential future commercialization activities. Our product candidates are likely to be more expensive to manufacture than most other treatments currently available today or that may be available in the future. The commercial cost of manufacturing imetelstat and GRN1005 will need to be significantly lower than our current costs in order for these product candidates to become commercially successful products. Oligonucleotides are relatively large molecules produced using complex chemistry, and the cost of manufacturing an oligonucleotide like imetelstat is greater than the cost of making typical small-molecule drugs. Our present imetelstat manufacturing processes are conducted at a relatively modest scale appropriate for Phase 2 clinical trials. Similarly, our GRN1005 manufacturing processes are currently conducted at a relatively small scale, and there is also limited history of manufacturing of GRN1005. Accordingly, we can provide no assurance that we will achieve sufficient scale increases or cost reductions necessary for successful commercial production of imetelstat or GRN1005. Additionally, given the complexities of our manufacturing process, the resulting costs that we incur to conduct our clinical trials may be higher than would be anticipated for other comparable treatments, requiring us to expend relatively larger amounts of cash to complete our clinical trials. Manufacturing our product candidates is subject to process and technical challenges and regulatory risk. We face numerous risks and uncertainties with regard to manufacturing imetelstat and GRN1005. Regulatory requirements for product quality of oligonucleotide products are less well-defined than for small molecule drugs, and there is no guarantee that we will achieve sufficient product quality standards required for Phase 3 clinical trials or for commercial approval and manufacturing of imetelstat. Similarly, our GRN1005 manufacturing process, including the consistency and quality of batches made, while appropriate for Phase 2 clinical trials, will need to improve to meet regulatory requirements for Phase 3 clinical trials and commercial approval. Also, changes in our manufacturing processes for imetelstat or GRN1005 made during later stages of clinical development, including during Phase 3 trials, may result in regulatory delays, the need for further clinical studies, or rejection of a marketing application by regulatory authorities, which would result in a material adverse effect on our business. 23 Table of Contents We do not have experience as a company in conducting large-scale, late-stage clinical trials, or in those areas required for the successful commercialization of our product candidates. We have no experience in conducting large-scale, late-stage clinical trials. We cannot be certain that any large-scale, late-stage planned clinical trials will begin or be completed on time, if at all. Large-scale, late-stage clinical trials will require additional financial and management resources and reliance on third-party clinical investigators, CROs and consultants. Relying on third-party clinical investigators or CROs may cause delays that are outside of our control. Any such delays could have a material adverse effect on our business. We also do not have commercialization capabilities for our product candidates. Developing an internal sales, marketing and distribution capability would be an expensive and time-consuming process. We may not be able to enter into third-party marketing and distribution agreements on terms that are economically attractive, or at all. Even if we do enter into such agreements, these third parties may not successfully market or distribute any of our product candidates. Obtaining regulatory approvals to market our product candidates in the United States and other countries is a costly and lengthy process, and we cannot predict whether or when we will be permitted to commercialize our product candidates. Federal, state and local governments in the United States and governments in other countries have significant regulations in place that govern many of our activities and may prevent us from creating commercially viable products from our discoveries, and from successfully conducting our development efforts and commercializing our product candidates. The regulatory process, particularly for biopharmaceutical product candidates like ours, is uncertain, can take many years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Our potential product candidates will require extensive preclinical and clinical testing prior to submission of any regulatory application seeking approval to commence commercial sales. In particular, human pharmaceutical therapeutic product candidates are subject to rigorous requirements of the FDA in the United States and similar health authorities in other countries in order to demonstrate safety and efficacy. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory agency approvals. For example, safety and efficacy data from any of our Phase 2 clinical trials, even if favorable, may not provide sufficient rationale for us to proceed to a Phase 3 clinical trial. In addition, delays or rejections may be encountered as a result of changes in regulatory environment or regulatory agency policy during the period of product development and/or the period of review of any application for regulatory agency approval for a product candidate. Any product candidate that we, or our collaborators, develop must receive all relevant regulatory agency approvals before it may be marketed in the United States or other countries. Obtaining regulatory approval is a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. Because certain of our product candidates involve the application of new technologies or are based upon a new therapeutic approach, they may be subject to substantial additional review by various government regulatory authorities, and, as a result, the process of obtaining regulatory approvals for them may proceed more slowly than for product candidates based upon more conventional technologies. Delays in obtaining regulatory agency approvals could: significantly harm the marketing of any products that we or our collaborators develop; impose costly procedures upon our activities or the activities of our collaborators; diminish any competitive advantages that we or our collaborators may attain; or adversely affect our ability to receive royalties and generate revenues and profits. Even if we commit the necessary time and resources, the required regulatory agency approvals may not be obtained for any product candidates developed by us or in collaboration with us. If we obtain regulatory agency approval for a new product, this approval may entail limitations on the indicated uses or other aspects of the product label for which it can be marketed that could limit the potential commercial use of the product. 24 Table of Contents Failure to achieve continued compliance with government regulation over approved products could delay or halt commercialization of our products. Approved products and their manufacturers are subject to continual review, and discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or its manufacturer may result in restrictions on the product or manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market. The future sale by us or our collaborators of any commercially viable product will be subject to government regulation related to numerous matters, including the processes of: manufacturing; advertising and promoting; selling and marketing; labeling; and distribution. If, and to the extent that, we are unable to comply with these regulations, our ability to earn revenues from product sales will be materially and negatively impacted. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements can result in severe civil and criminal penalties, including but not limited to: recall or seizure of products; injunction against the manufacture, distribution and sales and marketing of products; and criminal prosecution. The imposition of any of these penalties or other commercial limitations could significantly impair our business, financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR RELATIONSHIPS WITH THIRD PARTIES We depend on other parties to help us develop and test our product candidates, and our ability to develop and commercialize product candidates may be impaired or delayed if collaborations are unsuccessful. Our strategy for the development, clinical testing and commercialization of our product candidates requires that we enter into collaborations with clinical research organizations, vendors, corporate partners, licensors, licensees and others. We are dependent upon the ability of these parties to perform their responsibilities reliably. By way of example, we have contracted with two clinical research organizations that are primarily responsible for the execution of clinical site related activities for our imetelstat and GRN1005 Phase 2 clinical studies, including clinical trial site monitoring activities. In addition, we have contracted with single vendors for each of our clinical programs to develop and maintain the clinical databases for each respective program, and a single vendor maintains our safety database for both programs. Accordingly, if the performance of these services is not of the highest quality, or does not achieve necessary regulatory compliance standards, or if such organization or vendor stops or delays its performance for any reason, it would impair and delay our ability to report data from our clinical trials and make the necessary representations to regulatory authorities, if at all. The development and commercialization of our product candidates will be delayed if collaborators, contractors or other partners fail to conduct these activities in a timely manner or at all. In addition, our collaborators could terminate their agreements with us and we may not receive any development or milestone payments. If we do not achieve milestones set forth in agreements with collaborators, or if our collaborators breach or terminate their collaborative agreements with us, our business may be materially harmed. 25 Table of Contents Our ability to manufacture our product candidates and products is risky and uncertain because we must rely on third parties for manufacturing. There may be shortages of key materials, and we may have only one source of manufacture or supply. We rely on other companies for certain process development, supply of starting materials, manufacturing or other technical and scientific work with respect to our imetelstat and GRN1005 product candidates, but we do not have direct control over their personnel or operations. If these companies do not perform the work which they were assigned or do not complete the work within the expected timelines, or if they choose to exit the business, our ability to develop or manufacture our product candidates could be significantly harmed. For example, we may need to change one or more of our suppliers due to these or other reasons and the change could lead to delays in drug supply. In addition, we have not established long-term agreements for the supply of imetelstat or GRN1005. In addition, our manufacturers may need to make substantial investments to enable sufficient capacity increases, cost reductions, and to implement those regulatory and compliance standards necessary for successful Phase 3 trials and commercial production. We can provide no assurance that our manufacturers will achieve such capacity increases, cost reductions, or regulatory and compliance standards, and even if they do, that such achievements will be at a commercially reasonable cost to us. There are other risks and uncertainties that we face with respect to manufacturing. For example, we do not have a secondary source for the supply of GRN1005 bulk drug substance (unformulated peptide-paclitaxel conjugate). In addition, we currently have an agreement with only a single contractor for distribution of imetelstat and GRN1005 final drug product to clinical sites in North America. As another example, certain commonly used reagents and solvents can experience market shortages and, if these shortages occur, they may adversely impact our ability to manufacture our product candidates. Our reliance on the activities of our consultants, research institutions, and scientific contractors, whose activities are not wholly within our control, may lead to delays in development of our product candidates. We rely extensively upon and have relationships with scientific consultants and contractors at academic and other institutions. Some of our scientific consultants and contractors conduct research at our request, and others assist us in formulating our research and development and clinical strategy or other matters. These consultants and contractors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. We have limited control over the activities of these consultants and contractors and, except as otherwise required by our collaboration and consulting agreements, can expect only limited amounts of their time to be dedicated to our activities. In addition, we have formed research collaborations with many academic and other research institutions throughout the world. These research facilities may have commitments to other commercial and noncommercial entities. We have limited control over the operations of these laboratories and can expect only limited amounts of their time to be dedicated to our research goals. If any of these third parties are unable or refuse to contribute to projects on which we need their help, our ability to generate advances in our technologies and develop our product candidates could be significantly harmed. RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL POSITION AND NEED FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING We have a history of losses and anticipate future losses, and continued losses could impair our ability to sustain operations. We have incurred operating losses every year since our operations began in 1990. As of December 31, 2011, our accumulated deficit was approximately $785.5 million. Losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in connection with our research and development activities and from general and administrative costs associated with our operations. We expect to incur additional operating losses and, as our development efforts and clinical testing activities continue, our operating losses may increase in size. Substantially all of our revenues to date have been research support payments under collaboration agreements and revenues from our licensing arrangements. We may be unsuccessful in entering into any new corporate collaboration or license agreements that result in revenues. We do not expect that the revenues generated from these arrangements will be sufficient alone to continue or expand our research or development activities and otherwise sustain our operations. 26 Table of Contents While we receive royalty revenue from licenses, we do not expect to receive sufficient royalty revenues from these licenses to independently sustain our operations. Our ability to continue or expand our research and development activities and otherwise sustain our operations is dependent on our ability, alone or with others, to, among other things, discover, develop, manufacture and market therapeutic products. We also expect to experience negative cash flow for the foreseeable future as we fund our operating losses and capital expenditures. This will result in decreases in our working capital, total assets and stockholders’ equity, which may not be offset by future financings. We will need to generate significant revenues to achieve profitability. We may not be able to generate these revenues, and we may never achieve profitability. Our failure to achieve profitability could negatively impact the market price of our common stock and our ability to sustain operations. Even if we do become profitable, we cannot assure you that we would be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We will need additional capital to conduct our operations and develop our product candidates, and our ability to obtain the necessary funding is uncertain. We will require substantial capital resources in order to conduct our operations and develop our product candidates, and we cannot assure you that our existing capital resources, interest income and equipment financing arrangement will be sufficient to fund future planned operations. The timing and degree of any future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: the accuracy of the assumptions underlying our estimates for our capital needs for 2012 and beyond; changes in our clinical development plans for our product candidates, imetelstat and GRN1005; our ability to meaningfully reduce manufacturing costs of current product candidates; the magnitude and scope of our research and development programs, including the number and type of product candidates we intend to pursue; the progress we make in our research and development programs, preclinical development and clinical trials; our ability to establish, enforce and maintain strategic arrangements for research, development, clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing; the timing of a divesture of or partnering for our stem cell program assets and the consideration we may receive as result of such divesture or partnering transaction; the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals and clearances; and the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patent claims. Additional financing through strategic collaborations, public or private equity financings, capital lease transactions or other financing sources may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. The receptivity of the public and private equity markets to proposed financings is substantially affected by the general economic, market and political climate and by other factors which are unpredictable and over which we have no control. Additional equity financings, if we obtain them, could result in significant dilution to our stockholders. Further, in the event that additional funds are obtained through arrangements with collaborative partners, these arrangements may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product candidates or proposed products that we would otherwise seek to develop and commercialize ourselves. If sufficient capital is not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, suspend or eliminate one or more of our programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, in November 2011 we announced that we were discontinuing further development of our human embryonic stem cell programs in order to focus on our oncology programs. 27 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO PROTECTING OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Our success will depend on our ability to protect our technologies and our product candidates through patents and other intellectual property rights and to operate without infringing the rights of others. If we or our licensors are unsuccessful in either of these regards, the value of our technologies and product candidates will be adversely affected and we may be unable to continue our development work. Protection of our proprietary technology is critically important to our business. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and enforce our patents and maintain trade secrets, both in the United States and in other countries. By way of example, we do not yet have issued patents for GRN1005 in Europe or Japan, or for imetelstat in Europe after 2020. Further, our patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and our patent rights may not provide proprietary protection or competitive advantages to us. In the event that we or our licensors are unsuccessful in obtaining and enforcing patents, we may not be able to further develop or commercialize our product candidates and our business would be negatively impacted. By way of example, we depend in part on the ability of Angiochem to obtain, maintain and enforce patent rights for the proprietary peptide-drug conjugate technology that we have licensed. Publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by at least several months and sometimes several years. Therefore, the persons or entities that we or our licensors name as inventors in our patents and patent applications may not have been the first to invent the inventions disclosed in the patent applications or patents, or the first to file patent applications for these inventions. As a result, we may not be able to obtain patents for discoveries that we otherwise would consider patentable and that we consider to be extremely significant to our future success. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies, including ours, are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and technical questions. In particular, legal principles for biotechnology and pharmaceutical patents in the United States and in other countries are evolving, and the extent to which we will be able to obtain patent coverage to protect our technology, or enforce issued patents, is uncertain. If we infringe the patents of others, we may be blocked from continuing development work or be required to obtain licenses on terms that may impact the value of our product candidates. Challenges to our patent rights can result in costly and time-consuming legal proceedings that may prevent or limit development of our product candidates. Our patents may be challenged through administrative or judicial proceedings. Such proceedings are typically lengthy and complex, and an adverse decision can result in the loss of important patent rights. For example, where more than one party seeks U.S. patent protection for the same technology, the Patent Office may declare an interference proceeding in order to ascertain the party to which the patent should be issued. Patent interferences are typically complex, highly contested legal proceedings, subject to appeal. They are usually expensive and prolonged, and can cause significant delay in the issuance of patents. Notably, under the America Invents Act (AIA) signed into law in September 2011, interference proceedings will be eliminated in March 2013, to be replaced with other types of proceedings, including post-grant review procedures. Until such time, our pending patent applications, or our issued patents, may be drawn into interference proceedings which may delay or prevent the issuance of patents, or result in the loss of issued patent rights. Certain jurisdictions, such as Europe, New Zealand and Australia, permit oppositions to be filed against granted patents or patents proposed to be granted. Because our intent is to commercialize products internationally, securing both proprietary protection and freedom to operate outside of the United States is important to our business. We are involved in both opposing the grant of patents to others through such opposition proceedings and in defending our patent applications against oppositions filed by others. For example, we have been involved in several patent oppositions before the EPO with a series of companies (GemVax, Pharmexa and KAEL-GemVax) developing GV1001, a cancer vaccine that employs a short telomerase peptide to induce an immune response against telomerase. The rights to GV1001 passed from GemVax, a Norwegian company, to Pharmexa, a Danish company, as a result of a 2005 acquisition. In late 2008, Pharmexa reported that it sold its telomerase vaccine program to a Korean company, KAEL Co. Ltd., and the continuing company now operates under the name KAEL-GemVax. Various clinical studies of GV1001 are underway, including a Phase 3 combination study in pancreatic cancer. Pharmexa originally obtained a European patent with broad claims to the use of telomerase vaccines for the 28 Table of Contents treatment of cancer, and we opposed that patent in 2004. In 2005, the Opposition Division (OD) of the EPO revoked the claims originally granted to Pharmexa, but permitted Pharmexa to add new, narrower claims limited to five specific small peptide fragments of telomerase. The decision was appealed to the Technical Board of Appeals (TBA). In August 2007, the TBA ruled, consistent with the decision of the OD, that Pharmexa was not entitled to the originally granted broad claims but was only entitled to the narrow claims limited to the five small peptides. KAEL-GemVax was recently granted a further related European patent covering its telomerase peptide vaccine against which we have filed an opposition. That opposition is ongoing and we cannot predict the outcome. In parallel, Pharmexa opposed a European patent held by us, the claims of which cover many facets of human telomerase, including the use of telomerase peptides in cancer vaccines. In June 2006, the OD of the EPO revoked three of the granted claims in our patent, specifically the three claims covering telomerase peptide cancer vaccines. The remaining 47 claims were upheld, and that decision was recently affirmed by the TBA. We have now been awarded a second European patent with claims to telomerase peptides, and this patent has also been opposed by KAEL-GemVax. We believe that GV1001 is covered by our telomerase patents and our goal in these proceedings is to maintain strong patent protection that will enable us to enter into a licensing arrangement with KAEL-GemVax that could result in commercial benefit for Geron if GV1001 is successfully commercialized. We cannot predict the outcome of this opposition or any subsequent appeal of the decision in the opposition. European opposition and appeal proceedings can take several years to reach final decision. The oppositions discussed above reflect the complexity of the patent landscape in which we operate, and illustrate the risks and uncertainties. We are also currently involved in other patent opposition proceedings in Europe and Australia. Under the AIA, effective in March 2013, U.S. patents will be subject to post-grant review procedures similar to European oppositions. Patents owned or licensed by us may therefore be subject to post-grant review procedures, as well as other forms of review and reexamination. A decision in such proceedings adverse to our interests could result in the loss of valuable patent rights and negatively impact our business. As more groups become engaged in scientific research and product development in the areas of telomerase biology and peptide-drug conjugates for delivery of therapeutics across the BBB, the risk of our patents being challenged through patent interferences, oppositions, reexaminations, litigation or other means will likely increase. Challenges to our patents through these procedures can be extremely expensive and time-consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. An adverse outcome in a patent dispute could severely harm our business by: causing us to lose patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction(s); subjecting us to litigation, or otherwise preventing us from commercializing product candidates in the relevant jurisdiction(s); requiring us to obtain licenses to the disputed patents; forcing us to cease using the disputed technology; or requiring us to develop or obtain alternative technologies. By way of example, an anonymous party has recently filed papers at the European Patent Office challenging the proposed issuance of a patent to Angiochem that is relevant to GRN1005. If such challenges to our patent rights covering our drug candidates are not resolved promptly in our favor, our existing business relationships may be jeopardized and we could be delayed or prevented from entering into new collaborations or from commercializing certain products, which could materially harm our business. If we fail to meet our obligations under license agreements, we may lose our rights to key technologies on which our business depends. Our business depends on several critical technologies that are based in part on patents licensed from third parties, including the exclusive worldwide license rights we obtained from Angiochem in December 2010. Those third-party license agreements impose obligations on us, such as payment obligations and obligations to diligently pursue development of commercial products under the licensed patents. If a licensor believes that we have failed to meet our obligations under a license agreement, the licensor could seek to limit or terminate our license rights, which could lead to costly and time-consuming litigation and, potentially, a loss of the licensed rights. During the 29 Table of Contents period of any such litigation our ability to carry out the development and commercialization of product candidates could be significantly and negatively affected. If our license rights were restricted or ultimately lost, our ability to continue our business based on the affected technology would be severely adversely affected. We may be subject to infringement claims that are costly to defend, and which may limit our ability to use disputed technologies and prevent us from pursuing research and development or commercialization of product candidates. Our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing patents and the proprietary rights of others. Our technologies may infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others. In addition, we may become aware of discoveries and technology controlled by third parties that are advantageous to our programs. In the event our technologies infringe the rights of others or we require the use of discoveries and technology controlled by third parties, we may be prevented from pursuing research, development or commercialization of product candidates or may be required to obtain licenses to those patents or other proprietary rights or develop or obtain alternative technologies. We have obtained licenses from several universities and companies for technologies that we anticipate incorporating into our product candidates, and we initiate negotiation for licenses to other technologies as the need or opportunity arises. We may not be able to obtain a license to patented technology on commercially favorable terms, or at all. If we do not obtain a necessary license, we may need to redesign our technologies or obtain rights to alternate technologies, the research and adoption of which could cause delays in our product development. In cases where we are unable to license necessary technologies, we could be prevented from developing certain product candidates. Our failure to obtain alternative technologies or a license to any technology that we may require to research, develop or commercialize our product candidates would significantly and negatively affect our business. By way of example, we are aware of at least one entity that is seeking to obtain patent claims that may, if granted, be argued to read on imetelstat. While such claims have not been issued, and may not be valid if they do issue, we expect that as our product candidates continue to progress in development, we will see more efforts by others to obtain patents that are positioned to cover our product candidates. Much of the information and know-how that is critical to our business is not patentable, and we may not be able to prevent others from obtaining this information and establishing competitive enterprises. We sometimes rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary technology, especially in circumstances in which we believe patent protection is not appropriate or available. We attempt to protect our proprietary technology in part by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, collaborators and contractors. We cannot provide assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors, any of which would harm our business significantly. Our ability to divest our stem cell programs, and the value that we receive from any such arrangements depends at least in part on the strength of our hESC-related intellectual property. We developed an extensive portfolio of Geron-owned patent filings covering our prior development of hESC technologies, as well as patents that we licensed from other parties. This intellectual property is a substantial component of the stem cell assets that we are seeking to divest. Our ability to divest our hESC programs, and the value that we receive will depend in part on the strength, scope and term of the patents in our hESC portfolio, as well as our ability to maintain our license rights to the patents that we licensed from third parties. Legal developments and proceedings that may impact the value of our hESC patent portfolio include: European court ruling: In 2011, the European Court of Justice (ECJ) rendered a decision in a case known as Brüstle v. Greenpeace that is widely viewed to have effectively abolished the ability to enforce patents on hESC technologies in member states of the European Union (EU). This decision may reduce the value of our hESC patent portfolio in a partnering deal. Patent interferences: Two of our patent applications covering the production of endoderm from hESCs (part of the process for making pancreatic islet cells) are involved in interferences with patents held by ViaCyte, Inc. A number of outcomes are possible: (i) the claims may be awarded to ViaCyte; (ii) the claims may be awarded to us, or (iii) neither party may be found to be entitled to the claims. The decision from the Patent Office may also be subject to appeal. Since the interferences are still ongoing, we cannot predict what the outcome will be. 30 Table of Contents Reexaminations: In July 2006, requests were filed on behalf of the Foundation for Taxpayer and Consumer Rights (now renamed as Consumer Watchdog) for reexamination of three issued U.S. patents owned by the Wisconsin Alumni Foundation (WARF). These three patents (U.S. Patent Nos. 5,843,780, 6,200,806 and 7,029,913) are licensed to us pursuant to a January 2002 license agreement which conveys exclusive rights to us under the WARF patents for the development and commercialization of therapeutics based on neural cells, cardiomyocytes and pancreatic islet cells, derived from hESCs, as well as non-exclusive rights for other product opportunities. After initially rejecting the patent claims, the Patent Office issued decisions in all three cases upholding the patentability of the claims as amended. The decisions to uphold the 5,843,780 and 6,200,806 patents are final and not subject to further appeal. Consumer Watchdog appealed the decision on the 7,029,913 patent and, in April 2010, the Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences reversed the earlier decision of the Patent Office on the 7,029,913 patent and remanded the case back to the Patent Office for further prosecution. In November, 2011, the Patent Office again upheld the patentability of the claims. The case could be subject to further appeal. RISKS RELATED TO COMPETITIVE FACTORS The loss of key personnel could slow our ability to conduct research and develop product candidates. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the skills, experience and efforts of our executive officers and key members of our clinical and scientific staff. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as academic and other research institutions. We may be unable to retain our current personnel or attract or assimilate other highly qualified management and scientific personnel in the future on acceptable terms. The loss of any or all of these individuals could harm our business and might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of research, development or business objectives. Some of our competitors may develop technologies that are superior to or more cost-effective than ours, which may significantly impact the commercial viability of our technologies and damage our ability to sustain operations. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are intensely competitive. Other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and research organizations currently engage in or have in the past engaged in efforts related to the biological mechanisms that are the focus of our programs in oncology therapies, including the study of telomeres, telomerase and receptor-targeting peptides crossing the BBB. In addition, other products and therapies that could directly compete with the product candidates that we are seeking to develop and market currently exist or are being developed by pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies and by academic and other research organizations. Many companies are developing alternative therapies to treat cancer and, in this regard, are competitors of ours. There are more than 200 approved anti-cancer products on the market in the United States, and several thousand in clinical development. Many of the pharmaceutical companies developing and marketing these competing products (e.g., GlaxoSmithKline, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Novartis AG) have significantly greater financial resources and expertise than we do in: research and development; manufacturing; preclinical and clinical testing; obtaining regulatory approvals; and marketing, sales and distribution. Smaller companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. Academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations may also conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for research, clinical development and marketing of products similar to ours. These companies and institutions compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to our programs. 31 Table of Contents In addition to the above factors, we expect to face competition in the following areas: product efficacy and safety; the timing and scope of regulatory consents; availability of resources; reimbursement coverage; price; and patent position, including potentially dominant patent positions of others. As a result of the foregoing, our competitors may develop more effective or more affordable products, or achieve earlier patent protection or product commercialization than we do. Most significantly, competitive products may render any product candidates that we develop obsolete, which would negatively impact our business and ability to sustain operations. To be successful, our product candidates must be accepted by the health care community, which can be very slow to adopt or unreceptive to new technologies and products. Our product candidates and those developed by our collaborators, if approved for marketing, may not achieve market acceptance since hospitals, physicians, patients or the medical community in general may decide not to accept and utilize these products. The product candidates that we are attempting to develop will compete with a number of conventional drugs and therapies manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical companies. The degree of market acceptance of any of our developed product candidates will depend on a number of factors, including: our establishment and demonstration to the medical community of the clinical efficacy and safety of our product candidates; our ability to create products that are superior to alternatives currently on the market; our ability to establish in the medical community the potential advantage of our treatments over alternative treatment methods; and reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers. If the health care community does not accept our product candidates for any of the foregoing reasons, or for any other reason, our business would be materially harmed. If we fail to obtain acceptable prices or adequate reimbursement for our product candidates, the use of our product candidates could be severely limited. Our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates will depend significantly on our ability to obtain acceptable prices and the availability of reimbursement to the patient from third-party payers. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordability Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, the PPACA) became law. The PPACA contains numerous initiatives that impact the pharmaceutical industry. These include, among other things: increasing existing price rebates in federally funded health care programs; expanding rebates, or other pharmaceutical company discounts, into new programs; imposing a new non-deductible excise tax on sales of certain prescription pharmaceutical products by prescription drug manufacturers and importers; reducing incentives for employer-sponsored health care; creating an independent commission to propose changes to Medicare with a particular focus on the cost of biopharmaceuticals in Medicare Part D; providing a government-run public option with biopharmaceutical price-setting capabilities; 32 Table of Contents allowing the Secretary of Health and Human Services to negotiate drug prices within Medicare Part D directly with pharmaceutical manufacturers; reducing the number of years of data exclusivity for innovative biological products potentially leading to earlier biosimilar competition; and increasing oversight by the FDA of pharmaceutical research and development processes and commercialization tactics. While the PPACA may increase the number of patients who have insurance coverage for our product candidates, its cost containment measures could also adversely affect reimbursement for our product candidates. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we receive for any product candidate we may develop in the future. If our product candidates are not considered cost-effective or if we fail to generate adequate third-party reimbursement for the users of our product candidates and treatments, then we may be unable to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment for product candidates currently in development, which could have an adverse impact on our business. RISKS RELATED TO ENVIRONMENTAL AND PRODUCT LIABILITY Our activities involve hazardous materials, and improper handling of these materials by our employees, contractors, or agents could expose us to significant legal and financial penalties. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. As a consequence, we, our contractors and agents are subject to numerous environmental and safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. As an example, one of the components of GRN1005, paclitaxel, is considered a cytotoxic agent, which makes the manufacturing of GRN1005 subject to additional regulations, and limits the number of manufacturing facilities in which GRN1005 can be made. We, our contractors or agents may be required to incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations and may be adversely affected by the cost of compliance with these laws and regulations. Although we believe that our safety procedures for using, handling, storing and disposing of hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. In the event of such an accident, state or federal authorities could curtail our use of these materials and we, our contractors or agents could be liable for any civil damages that result, the cost of which could be substantial. Further, any failure by us to control the use, disposal, removal or storage, or to adequately restrict the discharge, or assist in the clean up, of hazardous chemicals or hazardous, infectious or toxic substances could subject us to significant liabilities, including joint and several liability under certain statutes. Any such liability could exceed our resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, an accident could damage our research and manufacturing facilities and operations. Additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting us may be adopted in the future. We, our contractors and agents may incur substantial costs to comply with these laws and regulations and substantial fines or penalties if we violate any of these laws or regulations, which would adversely affect our business. We may not be able to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance on commercially reasonable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities in order to protect ourselves against product liability claims. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of human therapeutic and diagnostic products. We may become subject to product liability claims if the use of our product candidates is alleged to have injured subjects or patients. This risk exists for our product candidates currently being tested in human clinical trials as well as product candidates that are sold commercially in the future. We currently have limited clinical trial liability insurance and we may not be able to maintain this type of insurance for any of our clinical trials. In addition, product liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. Being unable to obtain or maintain product liability insurance in the future on acceptable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business. 33 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK AND FINANCIAL REPORTING Historically, our stock price has been extremely volatile. Stock prices and trading volumes for many biopharmaceutical companies fluctuate widely for a number of reasons, including factors which may be unrelated to their businesses or results of operations such as media coverage, legislative and regulatory measures and the activities of various interest groups or organizations. This market volatility, as well as general domestic or international economic, market and political conditions, could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the return on your investment. Historically, our stock price has been extremely volatile. Between January 1, 2002 and December 31, 2011, our stock has traded as high as $16.80 per share and as low as $1.35 per share. Between January 1, 2009 and December 31, 2011, the price has ranged between a high of $9.24 per share and a low of $1.35 per share. The significant market price fluctuations of our common stock are due to a variety of factors, including: announcements regarding our clinical trial results; the demand in the market for our common stock; the experimental nature of our product candidates; fluctuations in our operating results; our declining cash balance as a result of operating losses; market conditions relating to the biopharmaceutical and pharmaceutical industries; announcements of technological innovations, new commercial products, or clinical progress or lack thereof by us, our collaborative partners or our competitors; announcements concerning regulatory developments, developments with respect to proprietary rights and our collaborations; comments by securities analysts; general market conditions; the issuance of common stock to partners, vendors or to investors to raise additional capital; and the occurrence of any of those risks and uncertainties discussed in this Item 1A, “Risk Factors”. In addition, the stock market is subject to other factors outside our control that can cause extreme price and volume fluctuations. Since the latter half of 2008, broad distress in the financial markets and the economy have resulted in greatly increased market uncertainty and instability in both U.S. and international capital and credit markets. These conditions, combined with foreign credit concerns, declining business and consumer confidence and high unemployment have recently contributed to substantial market volatility, and if such market conditions persist, the price of our common stock may fluctuate or decline. We may be subject to litigation that will be costly to defend or pursue and uncertain in its outcome. Securities-related class action litigation has often been brought against companies, including many biotechnology companies, which experience volatility in the market price of their securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies often experience significant stock price volatility in connection with their product development programs. For example, after we announced the discontinuation of our stem cell business, our stock price declined 20%. Further, if the results of our Phase 2 trials are not successful, or if we are unable to receive what stockholders believe to be adequate compensation for our stem cell assets, our stock price would likely decline, and may result in litigation. Securities-related litigation may be filed in the future and a decision adverse to our interests in any such lawsuit could result in the payment of substantial damages by us, and could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial position. Our business may bring us into conflict with our licensees, licensors, or others with whom we have contractual or other business relationships, or with our competitors or others whose interests differ from ours. If we are unable to resolve those conflicts on terms that are satisfactory to all parties, we may become involved in litigation brought 34 Table of Contents by or against us. Monitoring and defending against legal actions is time-consuming for our management, is likely to be expensive and may detract from our ability to fully focus our internal resources on our business activities. The outcome of litigation is always uncertain, and in some cases could include judgments against us that require us to pay damages, enjoin us from certain activities, or otherwise affect our legal or contractual rights, which could have a significant adverse effect on our business. In addition, the inherent uncertainty of such litigation could lead to increased volatility in our stock price. The sale of a substantial number of shares may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could significantly and negatively affect the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2011, we had 200,000,000 shares of common stock authorized for issuance and 131,443,148 shares of common stock outstanding. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, we had reserved approximately 36,609,895 shares of common stock for future issuance pursuant to our option and equity incentive plans, potential milestone payments and outstanding warrants. In addition, we have issued common stock to certain third parties, such as vendors and service providers, as payment for products and services. Under these arrangements, we have typically agreed to register the shares for resale soon after their issuance. We may continue to pay for certain goods and services in this manner, which would dilute your interest in us. Also, sales of the shares issued in this manner could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Future sales of the shares of the common stock, or the registration for sale of such common stock, or the issuance of common stock to satisfy our current or future cash payment obligations or to acquire technology, property, or other businesses, could cause immediate dilution and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. By way of example, in July 2009 we filed a universal shelf registration statement to sell any combination of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock and warrants in one or more offerings. The cumulative value allowed to be sold of all securities under this universal shelf registration statement is limited to $250 million and as of December 31, 2011, we have approximately $113 million remaining available. The sale or issuance of such stock, as well as the existence of outstanding options and shares of common stock reserved for issuance under our option and equity incentive plans, also may adversely affect the terms upon which we are able to obtain additional capital through the sale of equity securities. Our undesignated preferred stock may inhibit potential acquisition bids; this may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the voting rights of holders of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation provides our Board of Directors with the authority to issue up to 3,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock and to determine or alter the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions granted to or imported upon these shares without further vote or action by our stockholders. The issuance of shares of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control transaction without further action by our stockholders. As a result, the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. In addition, if we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Provisions in our charter, bylaws and Delaware law may inhibit potential acquisition bids for us, which may prevent holders of our common stock from benefiting from what they believe may be the positive aspects of acquisitions and takeovers. Provisions of our charter documents and bylaws may make it substantially more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us and may prevent changes in our management, including provisions that: prevent stockholders from taking actions by written consent; divide the Board of Directors into separate classes with terms of office that are structured to prevent all of the directors from being elected in any one year; and set forth procedures for nominating directors and submitting proposals for consideration at stockholders’ meetings. 35 Table of Contents Provisions of Delaware law may also inhibit potential acquisition bids for us or prevent us from engaging in business combinations. In addition, we have severance agreements with several employees and a change of control severance plan which could require an acquiror to pay a higher price. Either collectively or individually, these provisions may prevent holders of our common stock from benefiting from what they may believe are the positive aspects of acquisitions and takeovers, including the potential realization of a higher rate of return on their investment from these types of transactions. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and other factors and will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Sarbanes-Oxley Act) requires that we establish and maintain an adequate internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. Our annual report on Form 10-K must contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting that we have identified. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must annually provide an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act are ongoing and also apply to future years. We expect that our internal control over financial reporting will continue to evolve as our business develops. Although we are committed to continue to improve our internal control processes and we will continue to diligently and vigorously review our internal control over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with Section 404 requirements, any control system, regardless of how well designed, operated and evaluated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. Therefore, we cannot be certain that in the future material weaknesses or significant deficiencies will not exist or otherwise be discovered. If material weaknesses or other significant deficiencies occur, these weaknesses or deficiencies could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our consolidated financial statements, a decline in our stock price, or other material adverse effects on our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 