ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. You should carefully consider these risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K. Any of these risks could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our success largely depends on the success of our early-stage product candidate, imetelstat, and we cannot be certain that this product candidate will advance to subsequent clinical trials or receive regulatory approval on a timely basis, or at all. Our business is at an early stage of development, and we do not yet have product candidates in late-stage, or Phase 3, clinical trials or any products commercially available. We are solely dependent on the success of one early-stage product candidate, imetelstat. Our ability to develop imetelstat to and through regulatory approval and commercial launch is subject to significant risk and uncertainty and our ability to, among other things: •obtain clinical data to enable subsequent clinical trials; •obtain positive data from investigator-sponsored trials of imetelstat, such as the Mayo Clinic Trial, that provide the clinical rationale for the development of imetelstat in hematologic myeloid malignancies; •ascertain that the use of imetelstat does not result in significant liver toxicity or other significant systemic or organ toxicities; •further refine, evaluate and successfully develop candidate assays to measure tumor telomere length on a prospective basis in order to explore the hypothesis that patients whose tumors have short telomeres may have an improved outcome when treated with imetelstat, and, if successful, subsequently commercialize a companion diagnostic test based on a refined assay; •confirm the magnitude of the treatment effect of imetelstat in the NSCLC clinical trial patients whose tumors have short telomeres; •determine whether NSCLC patients or patients with other cancer types that have short tumor telomere lengths are likely to have an improved outcome when treated with imetelstat; •identify a sub-group of patients with NSCLC who have a sufficiently improved outcome when treated with imetelstat; •develop clinical plans for, and successfully enroll and complete, potential subsequent clinical trials of imetelstat; •collaborate successfully with clinical trial sites, academic institutions, clinical research organizations, physician investigators, including any physician investigators conducting investigator-sponsored trials of imetelstat, and other third parties; •obtain required regulatory clearances and approvals for imetelstat and any potential companion diagnostic test; •manufacture imetelstat at commercially reasonable costs; 20 Table of Contents •maintain and enforce adequate intellectual property protection for imetelstat and any potential companion diagnostic test; •maintain adequate financial resources and personnel to advance imetelstat through subsequent clinical trials; and •obtain financing on commercially reasonable terms to fund our operations. If we are not able to successfully achieve the above-stated goals and overcome other challenges that we may encounter in the research, development, manufacturing and commercialization of imetelstat, we may be forced to abandon our development efforts for imetelstat, which would severely harm our business and could potentially cause us to cease operations. In addition, there are many reasons why we may need to delay or abandon efforts to research, develop or obtain regulatory approvals to market imetelstat at any stage of the development process for any or all of the indications we are pursuing, or if we otherwise determine for business or financial reasons to delay or discontinue its development for any or all indications. For example, if we obtain safety results that alter the benefit-to-risk ratio with respect to patients enrolled in our ongoing Phase 2 clinical trials of imetelstat in essential thrombocythemia, or ET, and multiple myeloma, or if negative results are obtained in the Mayo Clinic Trial evaluating imetelstat in myelofibrosis, or MF, we would likely be further delayed or prevented from advancing imetelstat into further clinical development and might decide to discontinue our development of imetelstat, which would severely harm our business and prospects, and could potentially cause us to cease operations. Imetelstat will require significant additional clinical testing prior to possible regulatory approval in the United States and other countries, and we do not expect imetelstat to be commercially available for many years, if ever. Imetelstat also may prove to have undesirable or unintended side effects or other characteristics adversely affecting its safety, efficacy or cost effectiveness that could prevent or limit its approval for marketing and successful commercial use, or that could delay or prevent the commencement and/or completion of clinical trials for imetelstat. In our Phase 1 clinical trials of imetelstat, we observed dose-limiting toxicities, including thrombocytopenia when the drug was used as a single agent, and neutropenia when the drug was used in combination with paclitaxel, as well as a low incidence of severe infusion reactions. In our Phase 2 clinical trial of imetelstat in ET, we have observed at least one abnormal laboratory liver function test, and non-laboratory test findings such as gastrointestinal events, infections, muscular and joint pain and fatigue. We may in the future observe dose-limiting toxicities or other safety issues in our ongoing Phase 2 clinical trials of imetelstat in hematologic malignancies or in the Mayo Clinic Trial. Such dose-limiting toxicities or other safety issues could delay or prevent the commencement and/or completion of our ongoing or potential subsequent clinical trials or may require us to conduct additional, unforeseen trials or to abandon our development of imetelstat entirely. Our clinical development program for imetelstat may not lead to regulatory approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and similar foreign regulatory agencies if we fail to demonstrate that imetelstat is safe and effective. We may therefore fail to commercialize imetelstat. Any failure to advance imetelstat to subsequent clinical trials, failure to obtain regulatory approval of imetelstat, or limitations on any regulatory approval that we might receive, would have a material and adverse impact on our business. Our ability to generate product revenue is dependent on the successful regulatory approval and commercialization of imetelstat. Imetelstat may not prove to be more effective for treating hematologic cancers or solid tumors than current therapies. Competitors or other third parties may also have proprietary rights that prevent us from developing and marketing imetelstat, or our competitors may sell similar, superior or lower-cost products that make imetelstat unsuitable for marketing. Imetelstat also may not be able to be manufactured in commercial quantities at an acceptable cost. Any of the 21 Table of Contents factors discussed above could delay or prevent us from developing, commercializing or marketing imetelstat, which would materially adversely affect our business and could potentially cause us to cease operations. Success in early clinical trials may not be indicative of results obtained in subsequent clinical trials. A number of new drugs and biologics have shown promising results in initial clinical trials, but subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and efficacy data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are subject to varying interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Data from our preclinical studies and Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials should not be relied upon as evidence that subsequent or larger-scale clinical trials will succeed. The positive results we have obtained from the first 14 patients enrolled in the Phase 2 trial of imetelstat in ET may not predict future therapeutic benefit of imetelstat in other hematologic malignancies, including MF. Although MF is one of a related group of blood cancers which includes ET, we previously have not tested imetelstat in patients with MF, and the results we obtained from the first 14 patients enrolled in the Phase 2 trial of imetelstat in ET may not be the same in MF. The known dose-limiting toxicities associated with imetelstat, such as thrombocytopenia, or reduced platelet count, and neutropenia, or reduced white blood cell count, could cause complexities in treating patients with MF. Similarly, results from any sub-group analysis of clinical data from the Phase 2 trial of imetelstat in NSCLC may not be predictive of results for any subsequent data analysis based on additional data from the Phase 2 NSCLC trial or results obtained using a refined, prospective assay or in any subsequent clinical trials, including any trials designed to test the effect of imetelstat in subpopulations of patients having tumors with short telomeres. We will be required to demonstrate through larger-scale Phase 3 clinical trials that imetelstat is safe and effective for use in a diverse population before we can seek regulatory approval for its commercial sale. There is typically an extremely high rate of attrition from the failure of drug candidates proceeding through clinical trials. If we are unable to develop imetelstat into Phase 3 clinical trials, our business may fail. Any further development of imetelstat in solid tumors with short telomeres is dependent upon confirmation of the magnitude of the treatment effect of imetelstat in NSCLC patients whose tumors have short telomeres, and our ability to refine or validate a telomere length assay and to obtain any rights to third-party intellectual property that may be necessary for commercial use. We are evaluating the impact of the recent updated sub-group analysis conducted in March 2013 on our plans for potential development of imetelstat in solid tumors, including NSCLC. Further development of imetelstat for tumors with short telomeres, if pursued, will require confirmation of the magnitude of the treatment effect of imetelstat in the NSCLC clinical trial patients whose tumors have short telomeres, refinement of a telomere length assay and validation of a refined assay for use as a clinical diagnostic assay that will prospectively measure tumor telomere length in individual patient tumor samples. There can be no assurance that we will be able to confirm the magnitude of the treatment effect or refine or validate any telomere length assay for use in subsequent clinical trials. In addition, our ability to commercially use a refined, validated telomere length assay may depend on our ability to obtain rights to any third-party intellectual property that may be necessary to provide freedom to operate. Our research and development programs are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. The science and technology of telomere biology, telomerase and our proprietary oligonucleotide chemistry are relatively new. There is no precedent for the successful commercialization of a 22 Table of Contents therapeutic product candidate based on these technologies. We must undertake significant research and development activities to develop product candidates based on these technologies, which will require significant additional funding and may take years to accomplish, if ever. Because of the significant scientific, regulatory and commercial milestones that must be reached for any of our research and development programs to be successful, any program, or any aspect of a program, may be delayed or abandoned, even after we have expended significant resources on it. Our decisions to discontinue our Phase 2 clinical trial of imetelstat in MBC and our development of GRN1005 are examples of this. Any further delay or abandonment of our development of imetelstat would have a material adverse effect on, and may result in the failure of, our business. If we are not able to fully complete the divestiture of our stem cell assets, our stock price may decline and our business may be adversely affected. In January 2013, we entered into an Asset Contribution Agreement, or the Agreement, with BioTime, Inc., or BioTime, and BioTime's recently formed subsidiary, BioTime Acquisition Corporation, or BAC, providing for the divestiture of our stem cell assets and autologous cellular immunotherapy program to BAC upon the closing of the transaction. As consideration for the contribution of our stem cell assets to BAC, upon the closing, BAC will issue to Geron approximately 6.5 million shares of its Series A common stock, which we will distribute to our stockholders on a pro rata basis. Aside from the distribution of shares to our stockholders and potential royalties that we may receive on the sale of products that are commercialized, if any, in reliance upon our patents acquired by BAC, we will not receive any consideration for these assets. The transaction, which is expected to close no later than September 30, 2013, is subject to negotiated closing conditions, including certain approvals by BioTime's shareholders, the effectiveness of certain registration statements to be filed by BioTime and BAC with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, with respect to the securities to be distributed as contemplated by the Agreement, and other customary closing conditions. Prior to the closing, we are subject to certain obligations, including the obligation to exercise reasonable best efforts to preserve intact and maintain the assets to be contributed by us to BAC upon the closing of the transaction. If we are unable to preserve intact and maintain the assets to be contributed by us to BAC, or if BioTime or BAC are unable to satisfy their obligations with respect to the transaction contemplated by the Agreement, including the obligation to obtain the effectiveness of certain registration statements to be filed by them with the SEC, we may be unable to fully complete the transaction with BioTime and BAC, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our ability to preserve intact and maintain the assets to be contributed by us to BAC depends on our ability to maintain license agreements with third parties covering critical technologies related to our stem cell portfolio. These license agreements impose certain obligations on us, including obligations to diligently pursue development of stem cell products under the licensed patents. As a result of our discontinuation of further development of our stem cell programs in November 2011, our licensors could seek to limit or terminate our license rights, which could lead to costly and time-consuming litigation and, potentially, a loss of the licensed rights, which could impair our ability to complete the divestiture of our stem cell assets to BAC. Our agreement to contribute our stem cell assets and autologous cellular immunotherapy program to BAC provides for indemnification by us of BioTime against all losses and expenses relating to breaches of our representations, warranties and covenants. Furthermore, any failure or inability by us to contribute our stem cell assets to BAC, as contemplated under the Agreement, could expose us to a number of risks, including declines or fluctuations in our stock price, potential limitations on our ability to execute strategic alternatives concerning our stem cell programs and/or to clarify or resolve intellectual property matters relating to our stem cell assets, the incurrence of additional advisor and legal fees, and the impact of any distraction caused by the activities in connection with closing this transaction on our management. The occurrence of any one or more of the above could have an 23 Table of Contents adverse impact on our business and financial condition, as well as our ability to fully complete the divestiture of our stem cell assets to BAC, or at all. Some of our investors purchased shares of our common stock because they were interested in the opportunities presented by our human embryonic stem cell programs. Thus, certain stockholders may attribute substantial financial value to our stem cell assets. If our stockholders believe that the Agreement with BioTime and BAC for the divestiture of our stem cell assets does not provide the financial value that our stockholders may attribute to our stem cell assets, our stock price may decline and litigation may occur. RISKS RELATED TO CLINICAL AND COMMERCIALIZATION ACTIVITIES Our ability to complete clinical trials of imetelstat on a timely basis is subject to risks and uncertainties related to factors such as investigator sponsors, patient enrollment, drug supply and regulatory approval. Delays or terminations of clinical trials and of investigator-sponsored trials could be caused by matters such as: •poor effectiveness of imetelstat during clinical trials; •unforeseen safety issues or side effects; •disruptions due to drug supply or quality issues; •failure by independent physicians conducting investigator-sponsored trials of imetelstat to timely commence, complete or report data from such investigator-sponsored trials; •not receiving timely regulatory clearances or approvals, including, for example, acceptance of new manufacturing specifications or procedures or clinical trial protocol amendments by regulatory authorities; •not receiving timely institutional review board or ethics committee approval of clinical trial protocols or protocol amendments; •delays in patient enrollment due to size and nature of patient population, nature of protocols, proximity of patients to clinical sites, availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease and eligibility criteria for the trial; •unavailability of any study-related treatment (including comparator therapy); •lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial, including the incurrence of unforeseen costs due to enrollment delays; •unanticipated issues with key vendors of clinical services, such as contract research organizations; or •governmental or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements, policies and guidelines. Our enrollment goals for clinical trials may not be met. For example, we discontinued our Phase 2 trial of GRN1005 in brain metastases arising from NSCLC because of enrollment challenges, and our enrollment in our ongoing Phase 2 trials of imetelstat in multiple myeloma and ET was slower than expected. In addition, our inability to retain, or the inability of independent physicians conducting investigator-sponsored trials of imetelstat to retain patients who have enrolled in a clinical trial but may be prone to withdraw due to side effects from the therapy, lack of efficacy or personal issues, or who are lost to further follow-up, could result in clinical trial delays or our inability to complete clinical trials. Further, some of our clinical trials may be overseen by an internal safety monitoring committee, or ISMC, and an ISMC may determine to delay or suspend one or more of these trials due to safety or futility findings based on events occurring during a clinical trial. Delays in timely completion of clinical 24 Table of Contents testing of imetelstat, in clinical trials conducted by us or by independent clinical investigators, could increase research and development costs and could prevent or would delay us from obtaining regulatory approval for imetelstat, both of which would likely have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, a delay in the timely completion of or reporting of data from the Mayo Clinic Trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of imetelstat in patients with MF could have a material adverse effect on our ability to further develop imetelstat or to advance imetelstat to subsequent clinical trials. Delays in the initiation of or our inability to initiate subsequent clinical trials of imetelstat could result in increased costs to us and would delay our ability to generate or prevent us from generating revenues. The commencement of subsequent clinical trials for imetelstat could be delayed or abandoned for a variety of reasons, including as a result of failures or delays in: •commencement, enrollment or completion of clinical trials conducted by physician investigators conducting investigator-sponsored trials, or failure by independent physician investigators to promptly report data from such trials; •demonstrating sufficient safety and efficacy in Phase 2 clinical trials conducted by us or by independent clinical investigators to obtain regulatory clearance to commence subsequent clinical trials; •obtaining sufficient funding; •manufacturing sufficient quantities of drug; •producing drugs that meet the quality standards of the FDA and other regulatory agencies; •ensuring our ability to manufacture drugs at acceptable costs for Phase 3 clinical trials and commercialization; •obtaining clearance or approval of a proposed trial design or manufacturing specifications from the FDA and other regulatory authorities; •reaching agreement on acceptable terms with our collaborators on all aspects of the clinical trial, including the contract research organizations and the trial sites; and •obtaining institutional review board or ethics committee approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our ability to initiate subsequent clinical trials, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to manufacture imetelstat at costs or scales necessary to conduct our clinical programs or potential future commercialization activities. Imetelstat is likely to be more expensive to manufacture than most other treatments currently available today or that may be available in the future. The commercial cost of manufacturing imetelstat will need to be significantly lower than our current costs in order for imetelstat to become a commercially successful product. Oligonucleotides are relatively large molecules produced using complex chemistry, and the cost of manufacturing an oligonucleotide like imetelstat is greater than the cost of making typical small-molecule drugs. Our present imetelstat manufacturing processes are conducted at a relatively modest scale appropriate for our ongoing Phase 2 clinical trials. Accordingly, we may not be able to achieve sufficient scale increases or cost reductions necessary for successful commercial production of imetelstat. Additionally, given the complexities of our manufacturing processes, the resulting costs that we incur to conduct our clinical trials may be higher than would be anticipated for other comparable treatments, requiring us to expend relatively larger amounts of cash to complete our clinical trials, which would negatively impact our financial condition and could increase our need for additional capital. 25 Table of Contents Manufacturing imetelstat is subject to process and technical challenges and regulatory risks. We face numerous risks and uncertainties with regard to manufacturing imetelstat. Regulatory requirements for product quality of oligonucleotide products are less well-defined than for small-molecule drugs, and there is no guarantee that we will achieve sufficient product quality standards required for Phase 3 clinical trials or for commercial approval and manufacturing of imetelstat. Changes in our manufacturing processes or formulations for imetelstat that may be made during later stages of clinical development, including during Phase 3 trials, may result in regulatory delays, the need for further clinical trials, rejection of a marketing application, or limitation on marketing authorization by regulatory authorities, which would result in a material adverse effect on our business. We do not have experience as a company in conducting large-scale, Phase 3 clinical trials, or in those areas required for the successful commercialization of imetelstat. We have no experience as a company in conducting large-scale, Phase 3 clinical trials. We cannot be certain that any large-scale, Phase 3 clinical trials will begin or be completed on time, if at all. Large-scale, Phase 3 clinical trials will require successful Phase 2 data, additional financial and management resources and reliance on third-party clinical investigators, clinical research organizations and consultants. Relying on third-party clinical investigators or clinical research organizations may cause delays that are outside of our control. Any such delays could have a material adverse effect on our business. We also do not have commercialization capabilities for imetelstat, and we will need to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or establish and maintain agreements with third parties to market and sell imetelstat. Developing internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities is an expensive and time-consuming process. We may not be able to enter into third-party marketing and distribution agreements on terms that are economically attractive, or at all. Even if we do enter into such agreements, these third parties may not successfully market or distribute imetelstat, which may materially harm our business. Obtaining regulatory approvals to market imetelstat in the United States and other countries is a costly and lengthy process, and we cannot predict whether or when we will be permitted to commercialize imetelstat. Federal, state and local governments in the United States and governments in other countries have significant regulations in place that govern many of our activities and may prevent us from creating commercially viable products from our discoveries, from successfully conducting our development efforts or from commercializing imetelstat. The regulatory process, particularly for a biopharmaceutical product candidate like imetelstat, is uncertain, can take many years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Prior to submission of any regulatory application seeking approval to commence commercial sales of imetelstat, we will be required to conduct extensive preclinical and clinical testing. In particular, human pharmaceutical therapeutic product candidates are subject to rigorous requirements of the FDA in the United States and similar health and regulatory authorities in other countries in order to demonstrate safety and efficacy. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory agency approvals. For example, positive safety and efficacy data from our ongoing Phase 2 clinical trials of imetelstat in ET, may not provide sufficient rationale for us to proceed to, or otherwise enable us to obtain regulatory clearance for, a Phase 3 clinical trial. In addition, delays or rejections of regulatory approvals, or limitations in marketing authorizations, may be encountered as a result of changes in regulatory environment or regulatory agency policy during the period of product development and/or the period of review of any application for regulatory agency approval for a product candidate. We do not expect to receive regulatory approvals for imetelstat for many years, if at all. 26 Table of Contents Imetelstat and any future potential product candidate that we develop must receive all relevant regulatory agency approvals before it may be marketed in the United States or other countries. Obtaining regulatory approval is a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. Because imetelstat involves the application of new technologies and a new therapeutic approach, it may be subject to substantial additional review by various government regulatory authorities, and, as a result, the process of obtaining regulatory approvals for imetelstat may proceed more slowly than for product candidates based upon more conventional technologies, and any approval that we may receive could limit the use of imetelstat. Delays in obtaining regulatory agency approvals or limitations in the scope of such approvals could: •significantly harm the marketing of any products that we develop; •impose costly procedures upon our activities; •diminish any competitive advantages that we may attain; or •adversely affect our ability to receive royalties and generate revenues and profits. Even if we commit the necessary time and resources, the required regulatory agency approvals may not be obtained for imetelstat or any future potential product candidates developed by us. If we obtain regulatory agency approval for a new product, this approval may entail limitations on the indicated uses or other aspects of the product label for which it can be marketed that could limit the potential commercial use of the product. The occurrence of any of these events could materially adversely affect our business. Failure to achieve continued compliance with government regulation over our products, if any, could delay or halt commercialization of our products. Approved products and their manufacturers are subject to continual review, and discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or its manufacturer may result in restrictions on the product or manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market. The future sale by us of any commercially viable product will be subject to government regulation related to numerous matters, including the processes of: •manufacturing; •advertising and promoting; •selling and marketing; •labeling; and •distribution. If, and to the extent that, we are unable to comply with these regulations, our ability to earn revenues from product sales will be materially and negatively impacted. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements can result in severe civil and criminal penalties, including but not limited to: •recall or seizure of products; •injunction against the manufacture, distribution and sales and marketing of products; and •criminal prosecution. The imposition of any of these penalties or other commercial limitations could significantly impair our business, financial condition and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL POSITION AND NEED FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING We have a history of losses and anticipate continued future losses, and our continued losses could impair our ability to sustain operations. We have incurred operating losses every year since our operations began in 1990. As of December 31, 2012, our accumulated deficit was approximately $854.4 million. Losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in connection with our research and development activities and from general and administrative costs associated with our operations. We expect to incur additional operating losses and, as our development efforts and clinical testing activities continue, our operating losses may increase in size. Substantially all of our revenues to date have been research support payments under collaboration agreements and milestones, royalties and other revenues from our licensing arrangements. We may be unsuccessful in entering into any new corporate collaboration or license agreements that result in revenues. Revenues generated from these arrangements will not be sufficient alone to continue or expand our research or development activities and otherwise sustain our operations. We also expect to experience negative cash flow for the foreseeable future as we fund our operating losses and capital expenditures. This will result in decreases in our working capital, total assets and stockholders' equity, which may not be offset by future financings. We will need to generate significant revenues to achieve profitability. We may not be able to generate these revenues, and we may never achieve profitability. Our failure to achieve profitability could negatively impact the market price of our common stock and our ability to sustain operations. Even if we do become profitable, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We will need substantial additional capital to conduct our operations and develop imetelstat, and our ability to obtain the necessary funding is uncertain. We will require substantial capital resources in order to conduct our operations and develop imetelstat, and we cannot assure you that our existing capital resources, equipment financing arrangement, future interest income and potential sales of our common stock, including pursuant to our At-The-Market Issuance Sales Agreement with MLV & Co. LLC, will be sufficient to fund future planned operations. The timing and degree of any future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: •the accuracy of the assumptions underlying our estimates for our capital needs for 2013 and beyond; •changes in our clinical development plans for imetelstat; •our ability to meaningfully reduce manufacturing costs of imetelstat; •the magnitude and scope of our research and development programs, including the number and type of product candidates and indications we intend to pursue; •the progress we make in our research and development programs, preclinical development and clinical trials, as well as in investigator-sponsored trials; •our ability to establish, enforce and maintain strategic arrangements for research, development, clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing; •our ability to fully complete the divestiture of our stem cell assets to BAC; •the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory clearances and approvals; and •the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patent claims. 28 Table of Contents In addition, changes in our business may occur that would consume available capital resources sooner than we expect. Additional financing through strategic collaborations, public or private equity financings, capital lease transactions or other financing sources may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, we may raise equity capital at a stock price or on other terms that could result in substantial dilution of ownership for our stockholders. The receptivity of the public and private equity markets to proposed financings is substantially affected by the general economic, market and political climate and by other factors which are unpredictable and over which we have no control. In particular, since the latter half of 2008, the global economy has been impacted by the sequential effects of an ongoing global financial crisis. This global financial crisis, including the European sovereign debt crisis, has resulted in greatly increased market uncertainty and instability in both U.S. and international capital and credit markets, which may make it more difficult to raise equity and debt financing when we need it. In addition, our ability to raise additional funds may be severely impaired if our product candidate, imetelstat, fails to show adequate safety or efficacy in ongoing or potential subsequent clinical trials. Further, in the event that we obtain additional funds through arrangements with collaborative partners, these arrangements may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, imetelstat or potential future product candidates that we would otherwise seek to develop and commercialize ourselves. If sufficient capital is not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, suspend or eliminate one or more of our programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. RISKS RELATED TO PROTECTING OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Our success will depend on our ability to protect our technologies and our product candidate, imetelstat, through patents and other intellectual property rights and to operate without infringing the rights of others. Protection of our proprietary technology is critically important to our business. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain, enforce and extend our patents and maintain trade secrets, both in the United States and in other countries. If we are unsuccessful in either of these regards, the value of our technologies and imetelstat will be adversely affected and we may be unable to continue our development work. By way of example, we do not yet have issued compound patents for imetelstat in Europe after 2020. Further, our patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and our patent rights may not provide proprietary protection or competitive advantages to us. In the event that we or our licensors are unsuccessful in obtaining and enforcing patents, we may not be able to further develop or commercialize imetelstat and our business would be negatively impacted. Publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by at least several months and sometimes several years. Therefore, the persons or entities that we or our licensors name as inventors in our patents and patent applications may not have been the first to invent the inventions disclosed in the patent applications or patents, or the first to file patent applications for these inventions. As a result, we may not be able to obtain patents for discoveries that we otherwise would consider patentable and that we consider to be extremely significant to our future success. In addition, on September 16, 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the AIA, was signed into law. The AIA includes a number of significant changes to United States patent law. These include provisions that affect the way patent applications will be prosecuted and may affect patent litigation. The United States Patent Office has developed new and untested regulations and procedures to govern the full implementation of the AIA. Many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the AIA, and in particular, the first to file provisions, will become effective on or after March 16, 2013. For example, under the AIA, patent rights are awarded to the first inventor to file a patent application with respect to a particular invention. Thus, after March 16, 2013, our ability to protect our patentable 29 Table of Contents intellectual property will depend, in part, on our ability to be the first to file patent applications with respect to our inventions. Delay in the filing of a patent application for any purpose, including further development or refinement of an invention, may result in the risk of loss of patent rights. The AIA and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies, including ours, are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and technical questions. In particular, legal principles for biotechnology and pharmaceutical patents in the United States and in other countries are evolving, and the extent to which we will be able to obtain patent coverage to protect our technology, or enforce issued patents, is uncertain. If we infringe the patents of others, we may be blocked from continuing development work or be required to obtain licenses on terms that may impact the value of imetelstat. Challenges to our patent rights can result in costly and time-consuming legal proceedings that may prevent or limit development of imetelstat. Our patents may be challenged through administrative or judicial proceedings. Such proceedings are typically lengthy and complex, and an adverse decision can result in the loss of important patent rights. For example, where more than one party seeks U.S. patent protection for the same technology, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or the Patent Office, may declare an interference proceeding in order to ascertain the party to which the patent should be issued. Patent interferences are typically complex, highly contested legal proceedings, subject to appeal. They are usually expensive and prolonged, and can cause significant delay in the issuance of patents. Our pending patent applications, or our issued patents, may be drawn into interference proceedings or be challenged through post-grant review procedures, which may delay or prevent the issuance of patents, or result in the loss of issued patent rights. Under the AIA, interference proceedings will be eliminated for patent applications filed on or after March 2013, to be replaced with other types of proceedings, including derivation proceedings. The AIA also includes post-grant review procedures subjecting U.S. patents to post-grant review procedures similar to European oppositions. U.S. patents owned or licensed by us may therefore be subject to post-grant review procedures, as well as other forms of review and re-examination. A decision in such proceedings adverse to our interests could result in the loss of valuable patent rights and negatively impact our business. Certain jurisdictions, such as Europe, New Zealand and Australia, permit oppositions to be filed against granted patents or patents proposed to be granted. Because our intent is to commercialize products internationally, securing both proprietary protection and freedom to operate outside of the United States is important to our business. We are involved in both opposing the grant of patents to others through such opposition proceedings and in defending our patent applications against oppositions filed by others. For example, we have been involved in several patent oppositions before the European Patent Office, or EPO, with a series of companies (GemVax, Pharmexa and KAEL-GemVax) developing GV1001, a cancer vaccine that employs a short telomerase peptide to induce an immune response against telomerase. The rights to GV1001 passed from GemVax, a Norwegian company, to Pharmexa, a Danish company, as a result of a 2005 acquisition. In late 2008, Pharmexa reported that it sold its telomerase vaccine program to a Korean company, KAEL Co. Ltd., and the continuing company now operates under the name KAEL-GemVax. A Phase 3 clinical trial of GV1001 in pancreatic cancer is underway. Pharmexa originally obtained a European patent with broad claims to the use of telomerase vaccines for the treatment of cancer, and we opposed that patent in 2004. In 2005, the Opposition Division, or OD, of the EPO revoked the claims originally granted to Pharmexa, but permitted Pharmexa to add new, narrower claims limited to five specific small peptide fragments of telomerase. This decision was upheld by the Technical Board of Appeals, or TBA. In 30 Table of Contents August 2007, KAEL-GemVax was granted a further related European patent covering its telomerase peptide vaccine against which we have filed an opposition. KAEL-GemVax was recently granted a third European patent covering telomerase peptide vaccines against which we have also filed an opposition. These two oppositions are ongoing, and we cannot predict their outcomes or any potential subsequent appeal of the decision in the oppositions. In parallel, Pharmexa opposed a European patent held by us, the claims of which cover many facets of human telomerase, including the use of telomerase peptides in cancer vaccines. In June 2006, the OD of the EPO revoked three of the granted claims in our patent, specifically the three claims covering telomerase peptide cancer vaccines. The remaining 47 claims were upheld, and that decision was affirmed by the TBA. We have now been awarded a second European patent with claims to telomerase peptides, and this patent has also been opposed by KAEL-GemVax. We believe that GV1001 is covered by our telomerase patents and our goal in these proceedings is to maintain strong patent protection that will enable us to enter into a licensing arrangement with KAEL-GemVax that could result in commercial benefit for us if GV1001 is successfully commercialized; however, we may not be able to maintain that protection or enter into such a licensing arrangement on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We cannot predict the outcome of this opposition or any subsequent appeal of the decision in the opposition. European opposition and appeal proceedings can take several years to reach final decision. The oppositions discussed above reflect the complexity of the patent landscape in which we operate, and illustrate the risks and uncertainties. We are also currently involved in other patent opposition proceedings in Europe and Australia. As more groups become engaged in scientific research and product development in the areas of telomerase biology, the risk of our patents or patents that we have in-licensed being challenged through patent interferences, derivation proceedings, oppositions, re-examinations, litigation or other means will likely increase. Challenges to our patents through these procedures can be extremely expensive and time-consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. An adverse outcome in a patent dispute could severely harm our business by: •causing us to lose patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction(s); •subjecting us to litigation, or otherwise preventing us from commercializing imetelstat in the relevant jurisdiction(s); •requiring us to obtain licenses to the disputed patents; •forcing us to cease using the disputed technology; or •requiring us to develop or obtain alternative technologies. We may be subject to infringement claims that are costly to defend, and which may limit our ability to use disputed technologies and prevent us from pursuing research and development or commercialization of imetelstat. Our technologies may infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others. In addition, we may become aware of discoveries and technologies controlled by third parties that are advantageous to our programs. In the event our technologies infringe the rights of others or we require the use of discoveries and technologies controlled by third parties, we may be prevented from pursuing research, development or commercialization of imetelstat, or may be required to obtain licenses to those patents or other proprietary rights or develop or obtain alternative technologies. We have obtained licenses from several universities and companies for technologies that we anticipate incorporating into our development of imetelstat and future product candidates, and we initiate negotiations for licenses to other technologies as the need or opportunity arises. We may not be able to obtain a license to 31 Table of Contents patented technology on commercially favorable terms, or at all, or our licenses may be terminated on certain grounds, including as a result of our failure to comply with our obligations under such licenses. If we do not obtain a necessary license or if such a license is terminated, we may need to redesign our technologies or obtain rights to alternate technologies, the research and adoption of which could cause delays in our product development efforts. In cases where we are unable to license necessary technologies, we could be subject to litigation and prevented from developing imetelstat or any other product candidates. Our failure to obtain alternative technologies or a license to any technology that we may require to research, develop or commercialize imetelstat or other product candidates would significantly and negatively affect our business. By way of example, we are aware of at least one entity that is seeking to obtain patent claims that may, if granted, be argued to read on imetelstat. While such claims have not been issued, and may not be valid if they do issue, we expect that as imetelstat continues to progress in development, we will see more efforts by others to obtain patents that are positioned to cover imetelstat. Our success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing patents and the proprietary rights of others. Much of the information and know-how that is critical to our business is not patentable, and we may not be able to prevent others from obtaining this information and establishing competitive enterprises. We sometimes rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary technology, especially in circumstances in which we believe patent protection is not appropriate or available. We attempt to protect our proprietary technology in part by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, collaborators and contractors. We cannot provide assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors, any of which would harm our business significantly. Our ability to successfully complete the divestiture of our stem cell assets depends at least in part on our ability to maintain our stem cell-related intellectual property. We developed an extensive portfolio of Geron-owned patent filings covering our prior development of human embryonic stem cell technologies, as well as patents that we licensed from other parties. This intellectual property is a substantial component of the stem cell assets that we have agreed to divest to BioTime and BAC. Our ability to successfully complete the divestiture of our stem cell assets will depend in part on our ability to maintain the scope and term of the patents in our stem cell patent portfolio. Legal developments and proceedings that may impact our stem cell patent portfolio and ability to successfully complete the divestiture of our stem cell program include: •European court ruling: In 2011, the European Court of Justice, or ECJ, rendered a decision in a case known as Brüstle v. Greenpeace that is widely viewed to have effectively abolished the ability to enforce patents on human embryonic stem cell technologies in member states of the European Union, or EU. •Patent interferences: Two of our patent applications covering the production of endoderm from human embryonic stem cells (part of the process for making pancreatic islet cells) are involved in interferences with a patent held by ViaCyte. A decision was handed down by the U.S Patent and Trademark Office Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences, or BPAI, in the first interference in July 2012, awarding all claims to ViaCyte. In August 2012, the BPAI ruled that its decision in the first interference was binding in the second interference because the involved claims of the patent application in the second interference were patentably indistinct from the claims of the patent in the first interference, and awarded all involved claims to ViaCyte. In September 2012, we appealed the decision of the BPAI in both interferences in a litigation proceeding brought before the District Court, and in September 2012, ViaCyte filed a counterclaim in the District Court, seeking affirmation of the rulings in the two interference 32 Table of Contents proceedings and seeking costs and attorneys' fees in the District Court litigation and the two interference proceedings. At this time, we cannot predict the outcome of the appeal or the timing for resolution of the appeal to the District Court. The outcome of the District Court litigation could include judgments against us upholding or expanding the interference ruling. Upon the closing of the divestiture of the stem cell assets, BAC will be substituted for us as a party in these appeal proceedings. • Re-examinations: In July 2006, requests were filed on behalf of the Foundation for Taxpayer and Consumer Rights (now renamed as Consumer Watchdog) for reexamination of three issued U.S. patents owned by the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation, or WARF. These three patents (U.S. Patent Nos. 5,843,780, 6,200,806 and 7,029,913) are licensed to us pursuant to a January 2002 license agreement which conveys exclusive rights to us under the WARF patents for the development and commercialization of therapeutics based on neural cells, cardiomyocytes and pancreatic islet cells, derived from human embryonic stem cells, as well as non-exclusive rights for other product opportunities. After initially rejecting the patent claims, the Patent Office issued decisions in all three cases upholding the patentability of the claims as amended. The decisions to uphold the 5,843,780 and 6,200,806 patents are final and not subject to further appeal. Consumer Watchdog appealed the decision on the 7,029,913 patent and, in April 2010, the BPAI reversed the earlier decision of the Patent Office on the 7,029,913 patent and remanded the case back to the Patent Office for further prosecution. In November 2011, the Patent Office again upheld the patentability of the claims. On January 22, 2013, the BPAI withdrew its rejection and affirmed the examiner's decision confirming the patentability of claims 1-3 of the 7,029,913 patent. The case could be subject to further appeal. RISKS RELATED TO OUR RELATIONSHIPS WITH THIRD PARTIES We depend on other parties to help us develop and test imetelstat, and our ability to develop and commercialize imetelstat may be impaired or delayed if collaborations are unsuccessful. Our strategy for the development, clinical testing and commercialization of imetelstat requires that we enter into collaborations with clinical research organizations, vendors, corporate partners, licensors, licensees or others. We are dependent upon the ability of these parties to perform their responsibilities reliably. By way of example, we have contracted with two clinical research organizations that are primarily responsible for the execution of clinical site related activities for our ongoing imetelstat Phase 2 clinical trials, including clinical trial site monitoring activities. In addition, for our imetelstat program, we have contracted with a single vendor to develop and maintain the clinical database and a single vendor to maintain our safety database. Accordingly, if the performance of these services is not of the highest quality, or does not achieve necessary regulatory compliance standards, or if such organization or vendor stops or delays its performance for any reason, it would impair and delay our ability to report data from our clinical trials and make the necessary representations to regulatory authorities, if at all. In addition, licensors or licensees could terminate their agreements with us, and we may not receive any development or milestone payments. If we do not achieve milestones or perform diligence obligations set forth in agreements that we have entered with others, or if our licensors or licensees breach or terminate their agreements with us, our business may be materially harmed. We are providing imetelstat for the conduct of the Mayo Clinic Trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of imetelstat in patients with MF. Because this is not a Geron-sponsored trial, the clinical testing of imetelstat through this investigator-sponsored trial requires us to rely on the investigator's design and conduct of the trial. In addition, we do not have control over the timing and reporting of the data from this trial. 33 Table of Contents Our ability to manufacture imetelstat is uncertain because we must rely on third parties for manufacturing. We rely on other companies for certain process development, supply of starting materials, manufacturing or other technical and scientific work with respect to imetelstat, but we do not have direct control over their personnel or operations. If these companies do not perform the work which they were assigned or do not complete the work within the expected timelines, or if they choose to exit the business, our ability to develop or manufacture imetelstat could be significantly harmed. For example, we may need to change one or more of our suppliers due to these or other reasons and the change could lead to delays in drug supply. In addition, we have not established long-term supply agreements for imetelstat. In addition, our manufacturers may need to make substantial investments to enable sufficient capacity increases and cost reductions, and to implement those regulatory and compliance standards necessary for successful Phase 3 trials and commercial production. Our manufacturers may not be able to achieve such capacity increases, cost reductions, or regulatory and compliance standards, and even if they do, such achievements may not be at a commercially reasonable cost to us. There are other risks and uncertainties that we face with respect to manufacturing. For example, we currently have an agreement with only a single contractor for distribution of imetelstat final drug product to clinical sites in North America. As another example, certain commonly used reagents and solvents can experience market shortages and, if these shortages occur, they may adversely impact our ability to manufacture imetelstat. Our failure to meet our obligations under license agreements could result in us losing rights to key technologies required to complete the divestiture of our stem cell assets. Our ability to complete the divestiture of our stem cell assets depends on several critical technologies that are based in part on patents licensed from third parties. Those third-party license agreements impose obligations on us, such as payment obligations and obligations to diligently pursue development of commercial products under the licensed patents. If a licensor believes that we have failed to meet these or other obligations under a license agreement, including as a result of our discontinuation of further development of our stem cell programs, the licensor could seek to limit or terminate our license rights, which could lead to costly and time-consuming litigation and, potentially, a loss of the licensed rights, any of which could impair our ability to complete the divestiture of our stem cell assets. Our reliance on the activities of our consultants, research institutions, and scientific contractors, whose activities are not wholly within our control, may lead to delays in development of imetelstat. We rely extensively upon and have relationships with scientific consultants and contractors at academic and other institutions. Some of our scientific consultants and contractors conduct research at our request, and others assist us in formulating our research and development and clinical strategy or other matters. These consultants and contractors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. We have limited control over the activities of these consultants and contractors and, except as otherwise required by our collaboration and consulting agreements, can expect only limited amounts of their time to be dedicated to our activities. In addition, we have formed research collaborations with academic and other research institutions throughout the world. These research facilities may have commitments to other commercial and non-commercial entities. We have limited control over the operations of these laboratories and can expect only limited amounts of their time to be dedicated to our research goals. 34 Table of Contents If any of these third parties are unable or refuse to contribute to projects on which we need their help, our ability to generate advances in our technologies and develop imetelstat, could be significantly harmed. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK AND FINANCIAL REPORTING Historically, our stock price has been extremely volatile. Historically, our stock price has been extremely volatile. Between January 1, 2003 and December 31, 2012, our stock has traded as high as $16.80 per share and as low as $0.91 per share. Between January 1, 2010 and December 31, 2012, the price has ranged between a high of $6.67 per share and a low of $0.91 per share. The significant market price fluctuations of our common stock have been due to and may in the future be influenced by a variety of factors, including: •announcements regarding our clinical trial results or delays in our clinical trials, or investigator-sponsored trials, of imetelstat; •announcements regarding the safety of imetelstat; •announcements regarding our plans to discontinue certain programs and trials; •announcements regarding new research and development programs; •announcements regarding our evaluation of the recent updated sub-group analysis with regard to the magnitude of the treatment effect of imetelstat in NSCLC patients whose tumors have short telomeres and the impact of the updated evaluation on our plans for potential development of imetelstat in solid tumors, including NSCLC; •our ability to refine a tumor telomere length assay to prospectively measure tumor telomere length in individual patient tumor samples, if we continue development of imetelstat in solid tumors after our evaluation of the recent updated sub-group analysis; •our ability to develop and commercialize a telomere length assay as a companion diagnostic test, if we continue development of imetelstat in solid tumors after our evaluation of the recent updated sub-group analysis; •our ability to obtain any rights from third parties which may be necessary to enable us to commercially use a refined assay for prospectively measuring tumor telomere length in individual patient tumor samples; •our ability to successfully complete the divestiture of our stem cell assets to BAC, or perception by our stockholders about the adequacy of the consideration to be received for such divestiture; •the demand in the market for our common stock; •the experimental nature of imetelstat; •fluctuations in our operating results; •our declining cash balance as a result of operating losses; •market conditions relating to the biopharmaceutical and pharmaceutical industries; •announcements of technological innovations, new commercial products, or clinical progress or lack thereof by us, our collaborative partners or our competitors; •announcements concerning regulatory developments, developments with respect to proprietary rights and our collaborations; •comments by securities analysts; 35 Table of Contents •general market conditions; •the issuance of common stock to partners, vendors or to investors to raise additional capital; and •the occurrence of any other risks and uncertainties discussed in this Item 1A, "Risk Factors". Stock prices and trading volumes for many biopharmaceutical companies fluctuate widely for a number of reasons, including factors which may be unrelated to their businesses or results of operations, such as media coverage, legislative and regulatory measures and the activities of various interest groups or organizations. Since the latter half of 2008, broad distress in the financial markets and the economy has resulted in greatly increased market uncertainty and instability in both U.S. and international capital and credit markets. These conditions, combined with the European sovereign debt crisis, declining business and consumer confidence and high unemployment have recently contributed to substantial market volatility. In addition to other risk factors described in this section, this market volatility, as well as general domestic or international economic, market and political conditions, could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the return on your investment. If we fail to meet continued listing standards of NASDAQ, our common stock may be delisted, which could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock. Our common stock is currently traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC has requirements that a company must meet in order to remain listed on NASDAQ. In particular, NASDAQ rules require us to maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share of our common stock. If the closing bid price of our common stock were to fall below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive trading days or we do not meet other listing requirements, we would fail to be in compliance with NASDAQ's listing standards. There can be no assurance that we will continue to meet the minimum bid price requirement, or any other requirement in the future. If we failed to meet the minimum bid price requirement, The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC may initiate the delisting process with a notification letter. If we were to receive such a notification, we would be afforded a grace period of 180 calendar days to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. In order to regain compliance, shares of our common stock would need to maintain a minimum closing bid price of at least $1.00 per share for a minimum of 10 consecutive trading days. If our common stock were to be delisted, the liquidity of our common stock would be adversely affected and the market price of our common stock could decrease. We may be subject to litigation that will be costly to defend or pursue and uncertain in its outcome. Securities-related class action litigation has often been brought against companies, including many biotechnology companies, which experience volatility in the market price of their securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies often experience significant stock price volatility in connection with their product development programs. If the results of our business activities are not successful, including without limitation, if: •the results of the Mayo Clinic Trial evaluating imetelstat in MF, or any subsequent clinical trial of imetelstat, are not deemed to be successful; •we ascertain that the use of imetelstat results in significant liver toxicity or other significant systemic or organ toxicities; •we conclude, based on our evaluation of the recent updated sub-group analysis from our Phase 2 trial of imetelstat in NSCLC, to discontinue development of imetelstat in solid tumors, including NSCLC, or if we proceed with such development and are unable to develop an assay to prospectively measure telomere length in individual patient tumor samples or identify tumor 36 Table of Contents types with short telomere length that may have an improved outcome when treated with imetelstat; •we are unable to fully complete the divestiture of our stem cell assets to BAC; •our stockholders believe the consideration to be received for such divestiture to be inadequate; or •our discovery research program is unable to produce new product candidates, our stock price would likely decline, and may result in litigation. A decision adverse to our interests in any such lawsuit could result in the payment of substantial damages by us, and could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial position. Our business may bring us into conflict with our licensees, licensors, or others with whom we have contractual or other business relationships, or with our competitors or others whose interests differ from ours. If we are unable to resolve those conflicts on terms that are satisfactory to all parties, we may become involved in litigation brought by or against us. In addition, the conduct of clinical trials, including our ongoing and any subsequent clinical trials of imetelstat, and our discontinued trials of GRN1005, are inherently risky and may expose us to liability for matters such as patient injury or death, or for any failure to meet regulatory and compliance requirements. Monitoring, initiating and defending against legal actions are time-consuming for our management, are likely to be expensive and may detract from our ability to fully focus our internal resources on our business activities. The outcome of litigation is always uncertain, and in some cases could include judgments against us that require us to pay damages, enjoin us from certain activities, or otherwise affect our legal or contractual rights, which could have a significant adverse effect on our business. In addition, the inherent uncertainty of such litigation could lead to increased volatility in our stock price and a decrease in the value of your investment in our common stock. The sale of a substantial number of shares may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could significantly and negatively affect the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2012, we had 300,000,000 shares of common stock authorized for issuance and 130,242,695 shares of common stock outstanding. In addition, as of December 31, 2012, we had reserved approximately 33,344,942 shares of common stock for future issuance pursuant to our option and equity incentive plans and outstanding warrants. Issuing additional shares could negatively affect the market price of our common stock and the return on your investment. Future sales of our common stock, including pursuant to our At-The-Market Issuance Sales Agreement with MLV & Co. LLC, or the issuance of common stock to satisfy our current or future cash payment obligations or to acquire technology, property, or other businesses, could cause immediate dilution and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, under the universal shelf registration statement filed by us in July 2012 and declared effective by the SEC in October 2012, we may sell any combination of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities and warrants in one or more offerings, up to a cumulative value of $200 million. The sale or issuance of our securities, as well as the existence of outstanding options and shares of common stock reserved for issuance under our option and equity incentive plans and outstanding warrants also may adversely affect the terms upon which we are able to obtain additional capital through the sale of equity securities. 37 Table of Contents Our undesignated preferred stock may inhibit potential acquisition bids; this may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the voting rights of holders of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation provides our Board of Directors with the authority to issue up to 3,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock and to determine or alter the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions granted to or imported upon these shares without further vote or action by our stockholders. The issuance of shares of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control transaction without further action by our stockholders. As a result, the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. In addition, if we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Provisions in our charter, bylaws and Delaware law may inhibit potential acquisition bids for us, which may prevent holders of our common stock from benefiting from what they believe may be the positive aspects of acquisitions and takeovers. Provisions of our charter documents and bylaws may make it substantially more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us and may prevent changes in our management, including provisions that: •prevent stockholders from taking actions by written consent; •divide the Board of Directors into separate classes with terms of office that are structured to prevent all of the directors from being elected in any one year; and •set forth procedures for nominating directors and submitting proposals for consideration at stockholders' meetings. Provisions of Delaware law may also inhibit potential acquisition bids for us or prevent us from engaging in business combinations. In addition, we have severance agreements with several employees and a change of control severance plan which could require an acquiror to pay a higher price. Either collectively or individually, these provisions may prevent holders of our common stock from benefiting from what they may believe are the positive aspects of acquisitions and takeovers, including the potential realization of a higher rate of return on their investment from these types of transactions. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and other factors and will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, requires that we establish and maintain an adequate internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. Our annual reports on Form 10-K must contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting that we have identified. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must annually provide an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The requirements of Section 404 are ongoing and also apply to future years. We expect that our internal control over financial reporting will continue to evolve as our business develops. Although we 38 Table of Contents are committed to continue to improve our internal control processes and we will continue to diligently and vigorously review our internal control over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with Section 404 requirements, any control system, regardless of how well designed, operated and evaluated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. Therefore, we cannot be certain that in the future material weaknesses or significant deficiencies will not exist or otherwise be discovered. If material weaknesses or other significant deficiencies occur, these weaknesses or deficiencies could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our consolidated financial statements, a decline in our stock price, or other material adverse effects on our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. RISKS RELATED TO COMPETITIVE FACTORS The loss of key personnel could slow our ability to conduct research and develop imetelstat and potential future product candidates, if any. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the skills, experience and efforts of our executive officers and key members of our clinical and scientific staff. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as academic and other research institutions. The restructurings we implemented in 2011 and 2012 could have an adverse impact on our ability to retain and recruit qualified personnel. We may be unable to retain our current personnel or attract or assimilate other highly qualified management and scientific personnel in the future on acceptable terms. The loss of any or all of these individuals could harm our business and might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of research, development or business objectives. Some of our competitors may develop technologies that are superior to or more cost-effective than ours, which may significantly impact the commercial viability of our technologies and damage our ability to sustain operations. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are intensely competitive. Other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and research organizations currently engage in or have in the past engaged in efforts related to the biological mechanisms that are the focus of our programs in oncology therapies, including the study of telomeres, telomerase and our proprietary oligonucleotide chemistry. In addition, other products and therapies that could directly compete with imetelstat currently exist or are being developed by pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies and by academic and other research organizations. Many companies are developing alternative therapies to treat cancer and, in this regard, are competitors of ours. There are more than 200 approved anti-cancer products on the market in the United States, and several thousand in clinical development. Many of the pharmaceutical companies developing and marketing these competing products (e.g. GlaxoSmithKline, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Novartis AG, Incyte Corporation and Gilead Sciences, Inc.) have significantly greater financial resources and expertise than we do in: •research and development; •manufacturing; •preclinical and clinical testing; •obtaining regulatory approvals; and •marketing, sales and distribution. Smaller companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. Academic institutions, government agencies and 39 Table of Contents other public and private research organizations may also conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for research, clinical development and marketing of products similar to ours. These companies and institutions compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to our programs. In addition to the above factors, we expect to face competition in the following areas: •product efficacy and safety; •the timing and scope of regulatory consents; •availability of resources; •reimbursement coverage; •price; and •patent position, including potentially dominant patent positions of others. As a result of the foregoing, our competitors may develop more effective or more affordable products, or achieve earlier patent protection or product commercialization than us. Most significantly, competitive products may render imetelstat obsolete, which would negatively impact our business and ability to sustain operations. To be successful, imetelstat must be accepted by the health care community, which can be very slow to adopt or unreceptive to new technologies and products. If approved for marketing, imetelstat may not achieve market acceptance since hospitals, physicians, patients or the medical community in general may decide not to accept and utilize these products. Imetelstat will compete with a number of conventional drugs and therapies manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical companies. The degree of market acceptance of imetelstat will depend on a number of factors, including: •our establishment and demonstration to the medical community of the clinical efficacy and safety of imetelstat; •our ability to create products that are superior to alternatives currently on the market; •our ability to establish in the medical community the potential advantage of our treatments over alternative treatment methods; and •reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers. If the health care community does not accept imetelstat for any of the foregoing reasons, or for any other reason, our business would be materially harmed. If we fail to obtain acceptable prices or adequate reimbursement for imetelstat, the use of imetelstat could be severely limited. Our ability to successfully commercialize imetelstat will depend significantly on our ability to obtain acceptable prices and the availability of reimbursement to the patient from third-party payers. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordability Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, the PPACA) became law. In June 2012, the United States Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of key provisions of the PPACA. The PPACA contains numerous initiatives that impact the pharmaceutical industry. These include, among other things: •increasing existing price rebates in federally funded health care programs; 40 Table of Contents •expanding rebates, or other pharmaceutical company discounts, into new programs; •imposing a new non-deductible excise tax on sales of certain prescription pharmaceutical products by prescription drug manufacturers and importers; •reducing incentives for employer-sponsored health care; •creating an independent commission to propose changes to Medicare with a particular focus on the cost of biopharmaceuticals in Medicare Part D; •providing a government-run public option with biopharmaceutical price-setting capabilities; •allowing the Secretary of Health and Human Services to negotiate drug prices within Medicare Part D directly with pharmaceutical manufacturers; •reducing the number of years of data exclusivity for innovative biological products potentially leading to earlier biosimilar competition; and •increasing oversight by the FDA of pharmaceutical research and development processes and commercialization tactics. While the PPACA may increase the number of patients who have insurance coverage for imetelstat, its cost containment measures could also adversely affect reimbursement for imetelstat. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we receive for imetelstat in the future. If imetelstat is not considered cost-effective or if we fail to generate adequate third-party reimbursement for the users of imetelstat, then we may be unable to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment for imetelstat, which could have an adverse impact on our business. RISKS RELATED TO ENVIRONMENTAL AND PRODUCT LIABILITY Our activities involve hazardous materials, and improper handling of these materials by our employees, contractors, or agents could expose us to significant legal and financial penalties. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. As a consequence, we, our contractors and agents are subject to numerous environmental and safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. Our inability to comply with federal, state and county environmental laws and regulations could subject us to considerable additional cost or liability that would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We, our contractors or agents may be required to incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations and may be adversely affected by the cost of compliance with these laws and regulations. Although we believe that our safety procedures for using, handling, storing and disposing of hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. In the event of such an accident, state or federal authorities could curtail our use of these materials and we, our contractors or agents could be liable for any civil damages that result, the cost of which could be substantial. Further, any failure by us to control the use, disposal, removal or storage, or to adequately restrict the discharge, or assist in the clean up, of hazardous chemicals or hazardous, infectious or toxic substances could subject us to significant liabilities, including joint and several liability under certain statutes. Any such liability could exceed our resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, an accident could damage our research and manufacturing facilities and operations. Additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting us may be adopted in the future. We, our contractors and agents may incur substantial costs 41 Table of Contents to comply with these laws and regulations and substantial fines or penalties if we violate any of these laws or regulations, which would adversely affect our business. We may not be able to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance on commercially reasonable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities in order to protect ourselves against product liability claims. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of human therapeutic and diagnostic products. We may become subject to product liability claims if the use of imetelstat, or GRN1005 in our discontinued GRABM-B and GRABM-L trials, is alleged to have injured patients. This risk exists for imetelstat, which is currently being tested in human clinical trials, and GRN1005, which we have discontinued, as well as any potential product candidates that we may research, develop or sell in the future. We currently have limited clinical trial liability insurance and we may not be able to maintain this type of insurance for any of our clinical trials. In addition, product liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. Being unable to obtain or maintain product liability insurance in the future on acceptable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 