Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties and our actual results and future trends may differ materially from our past or projected future performance. We urge investors to consider carefully the following risk factors in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report. There may be additional risks, uncertainties, and factors not listed below that we are unaware of or do not currently consider material. Any of these could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and thus the value of your investment in our common stock or debt securities. Our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is significantly affected by volatile oil and gas prices and other factors. Our business depends on the level of activity in oil and gas exploration, development and production in market sectors worldwide. Oil and gas prices and market expectations of potential changes in these prices significantly affect this level of activity. However, higher commodity prices do not necessarily translate into increased drilling activity since customers’ expectations of future commodity prices typically drive demand for our services. The availability of quality drilling prospects, exploration success, relative production costs, the stage of reservoir development and political and regulatory environments are also expected to affect the demand for our services. Worldwide military, political and economic events have in the past contributed to oil and gas price volatility and are likely to do so in the future. The demand for our services may be affected by numerous factors, including the following: • the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production; • the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; • demand for energy, which is affected by worldwide economic activity and population growth; • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, to set and maintain production levels for oil; • the level of excess production capacity; • the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; • domestic and global political and economic uncertainty, socio-political unrest and instability or hostilities; • demand for and availability of alternative, competing sources of energy; and • technological advances affecting energy exploration, production and consumption. A significant amount of our U.S. onshore business is focused on unconventional shale resource plays. The demand for those services is substantially affected by oil and gas prices and market expectations of potential changes in these prices. If the price of oil were to go below a certain threshold for an extended period of time, demand for our services in the U.S. land market would be greatly reduced having a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by reduced demand for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. A significant downturn in the oil and gas industry will adversely affect the demand for oilfield services and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 7 Table of Contents There are operating hazards inherent in the oil and natural gas industry that could expose us to substantial liabilities. Our operations are subject to hazards present in the oil and gas industry, such as fire, explosion, blowouts, oil spills and leaks and spills of hazardous materials. These incidents, as well as accidents or problems in normal operations, expose us to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks. Our product and service offerings involve production related activities, well control services, radioactive materials, explosives and other equipment and services that are deployed in challenging exploration, development and production environments. An accident involving these services or equipment, or the failure of a product, could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to property, equipment or the environment. From time to time, customers and third parties may seek to hold us accountable for damages and costs incurred as a result of an accident, including pollution. Our insurance may not protect us against liability for some types of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses from business interruption. Moreover, we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. Any damages caused by our services or products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be fully indemnified against losses incurred due to catastrophic events for which we are not responsible. As is customary in our industry, our contracts generally provide that we will indemnify and hold harmless our customers from any claims arising from personal injury or death of our employees, damage to or loss of our equipment, and pollution emanating from our equipment and services. Similarly, our customers agree to indemnify and hold us harmless from any claims arising from personal injury or death of their employees, damage to or loss of their equipment, and pollution caused from their equipment or the well reservoir (including uncontained oil flow from a reservoir). Our indemnification arrangements may not protect us in every case. For example, from time to time we may enter into contracts with less favorable indemnities or perform work without a contract that protects us. In addition, our indemnification rights may not fully protect us if the customer is insolvent or becomes bankrupt, does not maintain adequate insurance or otherwise does not possess sufficient resources to indemnify us. In addition, our indemnification rights may be held unenforceable in some jurisdictions. Our inability to fully realize the benefits of our contractual indemnification protections could result in significant liabilities and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business is subject to risks from economic stagnation and lower commodity prices. Recent economic data indicates that the rate of economic growth in the United States and worldwide will remain lower than experienced several years ago. Prolonged periods of little or no economic growth will likely decrease demand for oil and gas, which could result in lower prices for oil and gas and therefore lower demand and potentially lower pricing for our services and products. A prolonged period of economic stagnation or deterioration could result in a significant adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if a significant number of our customers experience a prolonged business decline or disruption as a result of economic slowdown or lower oil and gas prices, we may incur increased exposure to credit risk and bad debts. The risk of future changes regarding the regulation of hydraulic fracturing could reduce or eliminate demand for our pressure pumping services. Our hydraulic fracturing and fluid handling operations, which are core businesses of Complete, are subject to a range of applicable federal, state and local laws. Our hydraulic fracturing and fluid handling operations are designed and operated to minimize the risk, if any, of subsurface migration of hydraulic fracturing fluids and spillage or mishandling of hydraulic fracturing fluids. However, a proven case of subsurface migration of hydraulic fracturing fluids or a case of spillage or mishandling of hydraulic fracturing fluids during these 8 Table of Contents activities could potentially subject us to civil and/or criminal liability and the possibility of substantial costs, including environmental remediation, depending on the circumstances of the underground migration, spillage, or mishandling, the nature and scope of the underground migration, spillage, or mishandling, and the applicable laws and regulations. The practice of hydraulically fracturing formations to stimulate the production of natural gas and oil has come under increased scrutiny from federal and state governmental authorities. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is studying hydraulic fracturing, and legislation may be introduced in the U.S. Congress that would authorize the EPA to regulate hydraulic fracturing. In addition, some states are evaluating the adoption of legislation or regulations governing hydraulic fracturing. Any federal or state laws or regulations of hydraulic fracturing could adversely affect our operations and reduce or eliminate the demand for our hydraulic fracturing services. Adverse and unusual weather conditions may affect our operations. Our operations may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. Severe weather, such as hurricanes, blizzards and extreme temperatures may cause evacuation of personnel, curtailment of services and suspension of operations, and loss of or damage to equipment and facilities. In addition, variations from normal weather patterns can have a significant impact on demand for oil and gas, thereby reducing demand for our services and equipment. Damage from any adverse weather conditions, and reductions in consumption of oil and gas due to weather variations, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Deepwater Horizon incident could have a lingering significant impact on exploration and production activities in United States coastal waters that could adversely affect demand for our services and equipment. The April 2010 catastrophic explosion of the Deepwater Horizon, the related oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and the U.S. Government’s response to these events has continued to significantly and adversely disrupt oil and gas exploration activities in the Gulf of Mexico. After the explosion, the U.S. government issued new guidelines and regulations regarding safety, environmental matters, drilling equipment and decommissioning applicable to the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, and may take other additional steps that could result in permitting delays, increased costs and reduced areas of operation, which could reduce the demand for our services. At this time, we cannot predict with any certainty what further impact the Deepwater Horizon incident may have on the regulation of offshore oil and gas exploration and development activity, or on the cost or availability of insurance coverage to cover the risks of such operations. The enactment of new or stricter regulations in the U.S. and other countries where we operate could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our borrowing capacity could be affected by the uncertainty impacting credit markets generally. Lingering disruptions in the U.S. credit and financial markets and international disruptions from the European Union member states unable to service their debt obligations, which have caused investor concerns, could adversely affect financial institutions, inhibit lending and limit access to capital and credit for many companies. Although we believe that the banks participating in our senior credit facility have adequate capital and resources, we can provide no assurance that all of those banks will continue to operate as a going concern in the future. If any of the banks in our lending group were to fail, it is possible that the borrowing capacity under our senior credit facility would be reduced. In the event that the availability under our senior credit facility was reduced significantly, we could be required to obtain capital from alternate sources in order to finance our capital needs. Our options for addressing such capital constraints would include, but not be limited to, obtaining commitments from the remaining banks in the lending group or from new banks to fund increased amounts under the terms of 9 Table of Contents our senior credit facility, and accessing the public capital markets. In addition, we may delay certain capital expenditures to ensure we maintain appropriate levels of liquidity. If it became necessary to access additional capital, any such alternatives could have terms less favorable than those terms under our senior credit facility, which could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If future financing is not available to us when required, as a result of limited access to the credit markets or otherwise, or is not available to us on acceptable terms, we may be unable take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Failure to retain key employees and skilled workers could adversely affect us. Our performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain certain key employees and skilled workers. Our ability to continue to expand the scope of our services and products depends in part on our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or the inability to employ or retain skilled workers could adversely affect our operating results. The demand for skilled workers is high and the supply is limited, particularly in the United States where there are now significant unconventional oil and gas basins in areas that do not have a significant experienced workforce. We have experienced increases in labor costs in recent years and may continue to do so in the future. In addition, current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with us in connection with the integration of our businesses. This may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. We may not be able to successfully integrate Complete’s operations into our legacy operations. Prior to the acquisition of Complete on February 7, 2012, we operated as independent public companies. We are currently devoting significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of Complete with our legacy business practices and operations. We may encounter potential difficulties in the integration process, including the following: • the failure to retain key employees of either of our legacy business or Complete’s business; • the inability to successfully combine Complete’s business with our legacy business in a manner that permits us to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Complete acquisition in the time frame currently anticipated or at all; • the complexities associated with managing the combined businesses out of a substantial number of different locations and integrating personnel from both us and Complete, while at the same time attempting to provide consistent, high quality services and equipment under a unified culture; • potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses associated with the Complete acquisition; and • performance shortfalls as a result of the diversion of management’s attention caused by finalizing the Complete acquisition and integrating the operations of Complete’s business with our legacy business. For all these reasons, the integration process could result in the distraction of our management, the disruption of our ongoing business or inconsistencies in our services, equipment, standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, vendors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Complete acquisition, or could otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. 10 Table of Contents Our international operations and revenue exposes us to additional political, economic and other uncertainties. We have substantial international operations, and following the Complete acquisition, we intend to grow those operations further. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in any business operating in foreign countries, including, but not limited to, the following: • political, social and economic instability; • potential expropriation, seizure or nationalization of assets; • deprivation of contract rights; • increased operating costs; • civil unrest and protests, strikes, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict; • import-export quotas; • confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; • currency exchange controls; • currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations; • restrictions on the repatriation of funds; and • other forms of government regulation which are beyond our control. Additionally, our competitiveness in international market areas may be adversely affected by regulations, including, but not limited to, the following: • the awarding of contracts to local contractors; and • the establishment of foreign subsidiaries with significant ownership positions reserved by the foreign government for local citizens. While the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to environmental compliance costs and liabilities. Our business is significantly affected by a wide range of environmental laws and regulations in the areas in which we operate, and increasingly stringent laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. We incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. The technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex and expensive to implement. These laws may provide for “strict liability” for remediation costs, damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. Strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. Some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. We use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. In addition, many of our current and former facilities are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. Accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of potentially contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. In addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. We believe we are currently in substantial compliance with environmental laws and regulations. 11 Table of Contents World political events could affect the markets for our services. World political events have resulted in military action in the Middle East, terrorist attacks and related unrest. Military action by the United States or other nations could escalate and further acts of terrorism may occur in the U.S. or elsewhere. Such acts of terrorism could be directed against us. Such developments have caused instability in the world’s financial and insurance markets in the past. In addition, these developments could lead to increased volatility in prices for crude oil and natural gas and could affect the markets for our products and services. Insurance premiums could increase and coverages may be unavailable in the future. U.S. government regulations may effectively preclude us from actively engaging in business activities in certain countries. These regulations could be amended to restrict or prohibit business activities in certain countries where we currently operate or where we may wish to operate in the future. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of mergers, acquisitions or divestitures. A key element of our business strategy has been, and we believe will continue to be, the acquisition of other businesses. We entered into the agreement and plan of merger to acquire Complete with the expectation that it would result in numerous benefits including, among other things, expansion opportunities, an expanded product line and workforce better equipped to serve customers, maintaining business and customer levels and accretion to our earnings per share. Whether we realize the anticipated benefits from the Complete acquisition or any other transactions depends, in part, upon our ability to integrate the operations of the acquired business, the performance of the underlying product and service portfolio, and the performance of the management team and other personnel of the acquired operations. Accordingly, our financial results could be adversely affected from unanticipated performance issues, legacy liabilities, transaction-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles, charges for impairment of long-term assets, credit guarantees, partner performance and indemnifications. While we believe that we have established appropriate and adequate procedures and processes to mitigate these risks, there is no assurance that these transactions will be successful. We also may make strategic divestitures from time to time. These transactions may result in continued financial involvement in the divested businesses, such as guarantees or other financial arrangements, following the transaction. Nonperformance by those divested businesses could affect our future financial results through additional payment obligations, higher costs or asset write-downs. Demand for our products and services could be reduced or eliminated by governmental regulation or a change in the law regarding emissions. A variety of regulatory developments, proposals or requirements have been introduced in the domestic and international regions that are focused on restricting the emission of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases. Among these developments are the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, also known as the “Kyoto Protocol,” the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative in the Northeastern United States, and the Western Regional Climate Action Initiative in the Western United States. Also, in 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court held in Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA that greenhouse gases are an “air pollutant” under the federal Clean Air Act and thus subject to future regulation. It is not currently feasible to predict whether, or which of, the current greenhouse gas emission proposals will be adopted. In addition, there may be subsequent international treaties, protocols or accords that the United States joins in the future. The potential passage of climate change regulation may curtail production and demand for fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for our products and services, which may in turn adversely affect future results of operations. Estimates of our oil and gas reserves and potential liabilities relating to our oil and gas properties may be incorrect. From time to time, we may engage in projects that include the acquisition of oil and gas properties. Acquisitions of these properties require an assessment of a number of factors beyond our control, including estimates of 12 Table of Contents recoverable reserves, future oil and gas prices, operating costs and potential environmental and plugging and abandonment liabilities. These assessments are complex and inherently imprecise, and, with respect to estimates of oil and gas reserves, require significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. In addition, since these properties are typically mature and could be in shallow water, our facilities and operations may be more susceptible to hurricane damage, equipment failure or mechanical problems. In connection with these assessments, we perform due diligence reviews that we believe are generally consistent with industry practices. However, our reviews may not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, our reviews may not permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. We may not always discover structural, subsurface, environmental or other problems that may exist or arise. Actual future production, cash flows, development expenditures, operating and abandonment expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those estimated by us and any significant variance in these assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantity and value of our proved reserves. Therefore, the risk exists we may overestimate the value of economically recoverable reserves and/or underestimate the cost of plugging wells and abandoning production facilities. If costs of abandonment are materially greater or actual reserves are materially lower than our estimates, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Business growth could outpace the capabilities of our infrastructure and workforce. We cannot be certain that our infrastructure and workforce will be adequate to support our operations as we expand. Future growth after the Complete acquisition also could impose significant additional demands on our resources, resulting in additional responsibilities of our senior management, including the need to recruit and integrate new senior level managers, executives and operating personnel. We cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain such additional personnel. To the extent that we are unable to manage our growth effectively, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, we may not be able to expand our operations or execute our business plan. We will incur substantial integration costs in connection with the Complete acquisition and the coordination of our and Complete’s businesses. We have incurred substantial expenses in connection with the Complete acquisition, and we expect to incur substantial expenses in connection with coordinating the businesses, operations, policies and procedures of our legacy business and Complete’s business. While we have assumed that a certain level of transaction and coordination expenses will be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of these transaction and coordination expenses. Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately. We may be exposed to unforeseen costs in some of our projects. Some of our decommissioning business may be conducted under fixed price or “turnkey” contracts. Under fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform a defined scope of work for a fixed price. Prices for these contracts are established based largely upon estimates and assumptions relating to project scope and specifications, personnel and material needs. These estimates and assumptions may prove inaccurate or conditions may change due to factors out of our control, resulting in cost overruns, which we may be required to absorb and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 13 Table of Contents 