Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following factors in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report. The risks described below are the material risks that we have identified. In addition, they may not be the only material risks that we face. There are many factors that affect our business and the results of our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently view as immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of these risks develop into actual events, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If that occurred, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. 6 Table of Contents The Deepwater Horizon incident could have a lingering significant impact on exploration and production activities in United States coastal waters that could adversely affect demand for our services and equipment. As an oil and gas service company, the success and profitability of our operations in the United States are influenced by the level of drilling and exploration activity in the Gulf of Mexico. Revenue generated from our Gulf of Mexico market area was approximately $675.8 million, $804.9 million and $1,204.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The April 2010 catastrophic explosion of the Deepwater Horizon, the related oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and the U.S. Government’s response to these events has significantly and adversely disrupted oil and gas exploration activities in the Gulf of Mexico. Shortly after the explosion, the United States government imposed a moratorium effectively suspending all deepwater drilling activity in the Gulf of Mexico which was subsequently lifted. Although the moratorium did not suspend drilling activity in the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico, new safety and permitting requirements have been imposed on shallow water operators, resulting in fewer drilling permits being issued to shallow water operators since the Deepwater Horizon explosion. Additionally, the commission appointed by the President of the United States to study the causes of the catastrophe released its report and has recommended certain legislative and regulatory measures that should be taken with the stated goal to minimize the possibility of a reoccurrence of a disastrous spill. Various bills are being considered by Congress which, if enacted, could either significantly increase the costs of conducting drilling and exploration activities in the Gulf of Mexico, particularly in deep waters, or possibly drive a substantial portion of drilling and operation activity out of the Gulf of Mexico. There are a number of uncertainties affecting the oil and gas industry that continue to exist in the aftermath of the Deepwater Horizon events and the release of the commission report, including whether Congress will repeal the $75 million cap for non-reclamation liabilities under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, whether insurance will continue to be available at a reasonable cost and with reasonable policy limits to support drilling and exploration activity in the Gulf of Mexico, whether permits for drilling and other oilfield service activities will be issued and at what rate, and whether the overall legislative and regulatory response to the disaster will discourage investment in oil and gas exploration in the Gulf of Mexico. Although the eventual outcome of these uncertainties is currently unknown, any one or more of them could constrict the return of demand for our products and services to historical levels or further reduce demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our operations in the Gulf of Mexico. However, until the ultimate regulatory response to these events becomes more certain, we cannot accurately predict the extent of the impact those responses could have on our customers and similarly, the long term impact on our business and operations. Any regulatory response that has the effect of materially curtailing drilling and exploration activity in the Gulf of Mexico will ultimately adversely affect our operations in the Gulf of Mexico. Adverse macroeconomic and business conditions may significantly and negatively affect our results of operations. Economic conditions in the United States and international markets in which we operate could substantially affect our revenue and profitability. The lingering domestic and global financial crises, the associated fluctuating oil and gas prices, and the disruption in the credit markets have had an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, and if sustained or worsened, such adverse effects could continue or worsen. Additionally, if the disruption in the credit markets continues, some of our suppliers and customers may be unable to recover from, or could face additional credit issues, cash flow problems and other financial hardships. Changes in governmental banking, monetary and fiscal policies to restore the domestic and global financial markets and increase credit availability may not be effective. It is difficult to determine the breadth and duration of the domestic and global financial crises and the many ways in which they may affect our suppliers, customers and our business in general. The continuation or further deterioration of these difficult financial and macroeconomic conditions could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Our borrowing capacity could be affected by the uncertainty impacting credit markets generally. Lingering disruptions in the credit and financial markets could adversely affect financial institutions, inhibit lending and limit access to capital and credit for many companies. Although we believe that the banks participating in our 7 Table of Contents credit facility have adequate capital and resources, we can provide no assurance that all of those banks will continue to operate as a going concern in the future. If any of the banks in our lending group were to fail, it is possible that the borrowing capacity under our credit facility would be reduced. In the event that the availability under our credit facility was reduced significantly, we could be required to obtain capital from alternate sources in order to finance our capital needs. Our options for addressing such capital constraints would include, but not be limited to, (1) obtaining commitments from the remaining banks in the lending group or from new banks to fund increased amounts under the terms of our credit facility, (2) accessing the public capital markets, or (3) delaying certain projects. If it became necessary to access additional capital, any such alternatives could have terms less favorable than those terms under our existing credit facility, which could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If future financing is not available to us when required, as a result of limited access to the credit markets or otherwise, or is not available to us on acceptable terms, we may be unable take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to the cyclical nature of the oil and gas industry. Demand for most of our oilfield services is substantially dependent on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. This level of activity has traditionally been volatile as a result of sensitivities to oil and gas prices and generally dependent on the industry’s view of future oil and gas prices. The purchases of the products and services we provide are, to a substantial extent, deferrable in the event oil and gas companies reduce expenditures. Therefore, the willingness of our customers to make expenditures is critical to our operations. Oil and gas prices are very volatile and could be affected by many factors, including the following: • the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production; • the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; • demand for energy, which is affected by worldwide economic activity and population growth; • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, to set and maintain production levels for oil; • the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; • domestic and global political and economic uncertainty, socio-political unrest and instability or hostilities; • demand for and availability of alternative, competing sources of energy; and • technological advances affecting energy exploration, production and consumption. Although the effects of changing prices on activity levels in production and development sectors of the oil and gas industry are less immediate and as a result, less volatile than the exploration sector, producers generally react to declining oil and gas prices by reducing expenditures. This has, in the past, adversely affected and may in the future adversely affect our business. We are unable to predict future oil and gas prices or the level of oil and gas industry activity. A prolonged low level of activity in the oil and gas industry will adversely affect the demand for our products and services and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our industry is highly competitive. We operate in highly competitive areas of the oilfield services industry. The products and services of each of our principal industry segments are sold in highly competitive markets, and our revenues and earnings may be affected by the following factors: • changes in competitive prices; • fluctuations in the level of activity in major markets; • an increased number of liftboats in the Gulf of Mexico; • general economic conditions; and • governmental regulation. 8 Table of Contents We compete with the oil and gas industry’s largest integrated and independent oilfield service providers. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the market areas that we serve are price, product and service quality, safety record, equipment availability and technical proficiency. Our operations may be adversely affected if our current competitors or new market entrants introduce new products or services with better features, performance, prices or other characteristics than our products and services. Further, additional liftboat capacity in the Gulf of Mexico would increase competition for that service, likely resulting in lower day rates and utilization. Competitive pressures or other factors also may result in significant price competition that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Finally, competition among oilfield service and equipment providers is also affected by each provider’s reputation for safety and quality. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from our international operations, which exposes us to additional political, economic and other uncertainties. Our international revenues accounted for approximately 28%, 22%, and 17% of our total revenues in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in any business operating in foreign countries, including, but not limited to, the following: • political, social and economic instability; • potential expropriation, seizure or nationalization of assets; • increased operating costs; • civil unrest and protests, strikes, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict; • renegotiating, cancellation or forced modification of contracts; • import-export quotas; • confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; • currency fluctuations; • restrictions on the repatriation of funds; • submission to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel or having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or arbitration panel against a sovereign nation within its own territory; and • other forms of government regulation which are beyond our control. Additionally, our competitiveness in international market areas may be adversely affected by regulations, including, but not limited to, the following: • the awarding of contracts to local contractors; • the employment of local citizens; and • the establishment of foreign subsidiaries with significant ownership positions reserved by the foreign government for local citizens. The occurrence of any of the risks described above could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We are susceptible to adverse weather conditions in the Gulf of Mexico. Certain areas in and near the Gulf of Mexico experience hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a relatively frequent basis. Substantially all of our assets offshore and along the Gulf of Mexico are susceptible to damage or total loss by these storms. Although we maintain insurance on our properties, due to the significant losses incurred as a consequence of the hurricanes that occurred in the Gulf of Mexico in recent years these coverages are not comparable with that of prior years. For instance, since 2006, our insurance policies now have an annual aggregate limit, rather than an occurrence limit. Also, our deductible for wind damage versus non-wind damage events is between five and ten times higher. Thus, we are at greater risk of loss due to severe weather conditions. Any significant uninsured losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Damage to our equipment caused by high winds and turbulent seas could cause us to curtail or suspend service operations for significant periods of time until damage can be assessed and repaired. Moreover, even if we do not experience direct damage from any of these storms, we may experience disruptions in our operations because 9 Table of Contents customers may curtail or suspend their development activities due to damage to their platforms, pipelines and other related facilities. We do not maintain business interruption insurance that could protect us from these events. We depend on key personnel. Our success depends to a great degree on the abilities of our key management personnel, particularly our chief executive officer and other high-ranking executives. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could adversely affect us. We might be unable to employ a sufficient number of skilled workers. The delivery of our products and services require personnel with specialized skills and experience. As a result, our ability to remain productive and profitable will depend upon our ability to employ and retain skilled workers. In addition, our ability to expand our operations depends in part on our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. The demand for skilled workers in our industry is high, and the supply is limited. We could be faced with severe shortages of experienced personnel as we expand our operations and enter new markets. In developed countries, many senior engineers, managers and other professionals are reaching retirement age, with no assurance that enough college graduates and younger workers will be ready to replace them. In addition, although our employees are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement, the marine services industry has in the past been targeted by maritime labor unions in an effort to organize Gulf of Mexico employees. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers or the unionization of our Gulf of Mexico employees could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates that we must pay or both. If either of these events were to occur, our capacity and profitability could be diminished and our growth potential could be impaired. We depend on significant customers. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from a small number of major and independent oil and gas companies. In 2010, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue. Of our 2009 and 2008 total revenue, Chevron accounted for approximately 15% and 12%, respectively, Apache accounted for approximately 13% and 11%, respectively, and BP accounted for approximately 11% for each year. Our inability to continue to perform services for a number of our large existing customers, if not offset by sales to new or other existing customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. The terms of our contracts could expose us to unforeseen costs and costs not within our control. Under fixed-price contracts, turnkey or modified turnkey contracts, we agree to perform a defined scope of work for a fixed price. Extra work, which is subject to customer approval, is billed separately. As a result, we can improve our expected profit by superior contract performance, productivity, worker safety and other factors resulting in cost savings. However, we could incur cost overruns above the approved contract price, which may not be recoverable. Prices for these contracts are established based largely upon estimates and assumptions relating to project scope and specifications, personnel and material needs. These estimates and assumptions may prove inaccurate or conditions may change due to factors out of our control, resulting in cost overruns, which we may be required to absorb and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our profits from these contracts could decrease and we could experience losses if we incur difficulties in performing the contracts or are unable to secure suitable commitments from our subcontractors and other suppliers. Many of these contracts require us to satisfy specified progress milestones or performance standards in order to receive payment. Under these types of arrangements, we may incur significant costs for equipment, labor and supplies prior to receipt of payment. If the customer fails or refuses to pay us for any reason, there is no assurance we will be able to collect amounts due to us for costs previously incurred. In some cases, we may find it necessary to terminate subcontracts and we may incur costs or penalties for canceling our commitments to them. If we are unable to collect amounts owed to us under these contracts, we may be required to record a charge against previously recognized earnings related to the project, and our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Percentage-of-completion accounting for contract revenue may result in material adjustments. A portion of our revenue is recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. The percentage-of-completion accounting practices that we use result in our recognizing contract revenue and earnings ratably over the contract term based on the proportion of actual costs incurred to our estimated total contract costs. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenue and costs. We review our estimates of contract revenue, costs and profitability on a monthly basis. Prior to contract completion, we may adjust our estimates on one or more occasions as a result of changes in cost estimates, change orders to the original contract, collection disputes with the customer on amounts invoiced or claims against the customer for extra work or increased cost due to customer-induced delays and other factors. Contract losses are recognized in the fiscal period in which the loss is determined. Contract profit estimates are also adjusted in the fiscal period in which it is determined that an adjustment is required. No restatements are made to prior periods for changes in these estimates. As a result of the requirements of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, the possibility exists, for example, that we could have estimated and reported a profit on a contract over several prior periods and later determine that all or a portion of such previously estimated and reported profits were overstated or understated. If this occurs, the cumulative impact of the change will be reported in the period in which such determination is made, thereby eliminating all or a portion of any profits related to long-term contracts that would have otherwise been reported in such period or even resulting in a loss being reported for such period. The dangers inherent in our operations and the limits on insurance coverage could expose us to potentially significant liability costs and materially interfere with the performance of our operations. Our operations are subject to numerous operating risks inherent in the oil and gas industry that could result in substantial losses. These risks include the following: • fires; • explosions, blowouts and cratering; • hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions; • mechanical problems, including pipe failure; • abnormally pressured formations; and • environmental accidents, including oil spills, gas leaks or ruptures, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas, brine or well fluids, or other discharges of toxic gases or other pollutants. These risks affect our provision of oilfield services and equipment, as well as our oil and gas operations. Our liftboats and marine vessels are also subject to operating risks such as catastrophic marine disasters, adverse weather conditions, collisions and navigation errors. The realization of these risks could result in catastrophic events causing personal injury, loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property or equipment, or damages to the environment, which could lead to claims against us for substantial damages. In addition, certain of our employees who perform services on offshore platforms and marine vessels are covered by provisions of the Jones Act, the Death on the High Seas Act and general maritime law. These laws make the liability limits established by federal and state workers’ compensation laws inapplicable to these employees and instead permit them or their representatives to pursue actions against us for damages for job related injuries. Realization of any of the foregoing by our equity-method investments engaged in oil and gas production could result in significant impairment to our equity-method investment balances. As a result of indemnification obligations contained in most of our customer contracts, we may also be required to indemnify our customers for any damages sustained by our employees or equipment, regardless of whether those damages were caused by us. We maintain several types of insurance to cover liabilities arising from our operations. These policies include primary and excess umbrella liability policies with limits of $200 million dollars per occurrence, including sudden and accidental pollution incidents. We also maintain property insurance on our physical assets, including marine vessels and operating equipment and platforms and wells. The cost of many of the types of insurance coverage maintained for our oil and gas operations has increased significantly due to losses as a result of hurricanes that 11 Table of Contents occurred in the Gulf of Mexico in recent years and resulted in the retention of significant additional risk by us and our equity-method investments, primarily through higher insurance deductibles. Also, most of these property insurance policies now have annual aggregate limits, rather than occurrence-based limits, for named storm damages and significantly higher deductibles for wind damage. Very few insurance underwriters offer certain types of insurance coverage maintained by us, and there can be no assurance that any particular type of insurance coverage will continue to be available in the future, that we will not accept retention of additional risk through higher insurance deductibles or otherwise, or that we will be able to purchase our desired level of insurance coverage at commercially feasible rates. The frequency and severity of incidents related to our operating risks affect our operating costs, insurability, revenue derived from our equity-method investments, and relationships with customers, employees and regulators. Any increase in the frequency or severity of such incidents, or the general level of compensation and damage awards with respect to such incidents, could adversely affect our ability to obtain insurance or projects from oil and gas companies. Also, any significant uninsured losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are vulnerable to the potential difficulties associated with rapid expansion. We have grown rapidly over the last several years through internal growth and acquisitions of other companies. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to manage the rapid growth that we have experienced and the demands from increased responsibility on our management personnel. The following factors could present difficulties to us: • lack of experienced management-level personnel; • increased administrative burden; and • increased logistical problems common to large, expansive operations. If we do not manage these potential difficulties successfully, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our inability to control the inherent risks of acquiring businesses could adversely affect our operations. Acquisitions have been and we believe will continue to be a key element of our business strategy. We cannot assure that we will be able to identify and acquire acceptable acquisition candidates on terms favorable to us in the future. We may be required to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions. Such additional debt service requirements may impose a significant burden on our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully consolidate the operations and assets of any acquired business with our own business. Acquisitions may not perform as expected when the transaction was consummated and may be dilutive to our overall operating results. In addition, our management may not be able to effectively manage our increased size or operate a new line of business. The nature of our industry subjects us to compliance with regulatory and environmental laws. Our business is significantly affected by a wide range of local, state and federal statutes, rules, orders and regulations, as well as international laws in the other countries in which we operate, relating to the oil and gas industry in general, and more specifically with respect to the environment, health and safety, waste management and the manufacture, storage, handling and transportation of hazardous wastes. The failure to comply with these rules and regulations can result in the revocation of permits, corrective action orders, administrative or civil penalties and criminal prosecution. Further, laws and regulations in this area are complex and change frequently. Changes in laws or regulations, or their enforcement, could subject us to material costs. Our operations are also subject to certain requirements under OPA. Under OPA and its implementing regulations, “responsible parties,” including owners and operators of certain vessels, are strictly liable for damages resulting from spills of oil and other related substances in the United States waters, subject to certain limitations. OPA also requires a responsible party to submit proof of its financial ability to cover environmental cleanup and restoration costs that could be incurred in connection with an oil spill. Further, OPA imposes other requirements, such as the preparation of oil spill response plans. In the event of a substantial oil spill, we could be required to expend 12 Table of Contents potentially significant amounts of capital which could have a material adverse effect on our future operations and financial results. We have compliance costs and potential environmental liabilities with respect to our offshore and onshore operations, including our environmental cleaning services. Certain environmental laws provide for joint and several liabilities for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. These environmental statutes may impose liability without regard to negligence or fault. In addition, we may be subject to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as a result of alleged exposure to hazardous substances. We believe that our present operations substantially comply with applicable federal and state pollution control and environmental protection laws and regulations. We also believe that compliance with such laws has not had a material adverse effect on our operations. However, we are unable to predict whether environmental laws and regulations will have a material adverse effect on our future operations and financial results. Sanctions for noncompliance may include revocation of permits, corrective action orders, administrative or civil penalties and criminal prosecution. Federal, state and local statutes and regulations require permits for plugging and abandonment and reports concerning operations. A decrease in the level of enforcement of such laws and regulations in the future would adversely affect the demand for our services and products. In addition, demand for our services is affected by changing taxes, price controls and other laws and regulations relating to the oil and gas industry generally. The adoption of laws and regulations curtailing exploration and development drilling for oil and gas in our areas of operations for economic, environmental or other policy reasons could also adversely affect our operations by limiting demand for our services. The regulatory burden on our business increases our costs and, consequently, affects our profitability. We are unable to predict the level of enforcement of existing laws and regulations, how such laws and regulations may be interpreted by enforcement agencies or court rulings, or whether additional laws and regulations will be adopted. We are also unable to predict the effect that any such events may have on us, our business or our financial condition. A terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm our business. Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts and other armed conflicts may adversely affect the United States and global economies and could prevent us from meeting our financial and other obligations. If any of these events occur, the resulting political instability and societal disruption could reduce overall demand for oil and natural gas, potentially putting downward pressure on demand for our services and causing a reduction in our revenues. Oil and gas related facilities could be direct targets of terrorist attacks, and our operations could be adversely impacted if infrastructure integral to customers’ operations is destroyed or damaged. Costs for insurance and other security may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions effects and climate change issues may adversely affect our operations and markets. The impact and implication of greenhouse gas emissions has received increasing attention, especially in the form of proposals to regulate the emissions. Regulation of emissions has been proposed on an international, national, regional, state and local level. These proposals include an international protocol, which has gone into effect but is not binding on the United States, and numerous bills introduced to the U.S. Congress relating to climate change. In June 2009, a bill to control and reduce emissions of greenhouse gasses in the United States, was approved by the U.S. House of Representatives. The legislation, often referred to as a “cap-and-trade” system, would limit greenhouse gas emissions while creating a corresponding market for the purchase and sale of emission permits. Although not passed by the U.S. Senate, and therefore not law, the Senate has initiated drafting its own legislation for the control and reduction of greenhouse emissions. It is not currently feasible to predict whether, or which of, the current greenhouse gas emission proposals will be adopted. In addition, there may be subsequent international treaties, protocols or accords that the United States joins in the future. The potential passage of climate change regulation may impact our operations, however, since it may limit demand and production of fossil fuels by our customers. The impact on our customers, in turn, may adversely affect demand for our products and services, which could adversely impact our operations. 13 Table of Contents Estimates of our oil and gas reserves and potential liabilities relating to our oil and gas properties may be incorrect. We acquire mature oil and gas properties in the Gulf of Mexico on an “as is” basis and assume all plugging, abandonment, restoration and environmental liability with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties. Acquisitions of these properties require an assessment of a number of factors beyond our control, including estimates of recoverable reserves, future oil and gas prices, operating costs and potential environmental and plugging and abandonment liabilities. These assessments are complex and inherently imprecise, and, with respect to estimates of oil and gas reserves, require significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. In addition, since these properties are typically mature, our facilities and operations may be more susceptible to hurricane damage, equipment failure or mechanical problems. In connection with these assessments, we perform due diligence reviews that we believe are generally consistent with industry practices. However, our reviews may not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, our reviews may not permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. We may not always discover structural, subsurface, environmental or other problems that may exist or arise. Actual future production, cash flows, development expenditures, operating and abandonment expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those estimated by us and any significant variance in these assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantity and value of our proved reserves. Therefore, the risk is that we may overestimate the value of economically recoverable reserves and/or underestimate the cost of plugging wells and abandoning production facilities. If costs of abandonment are materially greater or actual reserves are materially lower than our estimates, they could have an adverse effect on earnings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 