ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSYou should carefully consider each of the following risks associated with an investment in our publicly traded securities and all of the other information in our 2011 Annual Report. Our business may also be adversely affected by risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial. If any of the events contemplated by the following discussion of risks should occur, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations may suffer.Our success depends on our ability to execute fully our global business strategy.Our ability to implement the key initiatives of our global business strategy is dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to:•implement our multi-year restructuring programs and any initiatives arising under the long-range business review as well as achieve any anticipated savings and benefits from such programs and initiatives;•increase our beauty sales and market share, and strengthen our brand image;•realize anticipated cost savings and reinvest such savings effectively in consumer-oriented investments and other aspects of our business;•implement appropriate product mix and pricing strategies and achieve anticipated benefits from these strategies;•implement Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) and realize efficiencies across our supply chain, marketing processes, sales model and organizational structure;•implement customer service initiatives and the Sales and Operation Planning process;•implement and continue to innovate our Internet platform and technology strategies;•implement our outsourcing strategies;•effectively manage inventory and implement initiatives to reduce inventory levels, including the potential impact on cash flows and obsolescence;•secure short and long-term financing, or financing at attractive rates, maintain appropriate cash flow levels to fund, among other things, cash dividends, and implement cash management, tax, foreign currency hedging and risk management strategies;•implement our Sales Leadership program globally, recruit Representatives, enhance the Representative experience and increase their productivity through field activation programs, execute Service Model Transformation and other investments in the direct selling channel;•transition our business in North America, including enhancing our Sales Leadership model and optimizing our product portfolio;•increase the number of consumers served per Representative and their engagement online, as well as to reach new consumers through a combination of new brands, new businesses, new channels and pursuit of strategic opportunities such as acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances with other companies; and•estimate and achieve any financial projections concerning, for example, future revenue, profit, cash flow, and operating margin increases.There can be no assurance that any of these initiatives will be successfully and fully executed in the amounts or within the time periods that we expect.We may experience financial and strategic difficulties and delays or unexpected costs in completing our multi-year restructuring programs or long-range business review, including achieving any anticipated savings and benefits of the initiatives thereunder.In October 2011, we committed to undertake a detailed assessment of our long-range business plan in order to improve our performance and better position ourselves in the increasingly complex economic environment. The review will include internal and external inputs, executional capabilities and capital allocation. We also continue to implement our previously announced multi-year restructuring programs. We may not realize, in full or in part, any anticipated savings or benefits from one or more of any initiatives arising under the long-range business review or our multi-year restructuring programs. Other events and circumstances, such as financial and strategic difficulties and delays or unexpected costs, may occur which could result in our not realizing all or any of the anticipated savings or benefits. If we are unable to realize these savings or benefits, our ability to 8continue to fund other initiatives may be adversely affected. In addition, our plans to invest these savings and benefits ahead of future growth means that such costs will be incurred whether or not we realize these savings and benefits.We are also subject to the risk of business disruption in connection with our long-range business review, multi-year restructuring programs or other initiatives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our growth objectives.There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve profitable growth in the future, particularly in our largest markets, such as the U.S., and developing and emerging markets, such as Brazil or Russia. Our growth overall is also subject to the strengths and weaknesses of our individual markets, including our international markets, which are or may be impacted by global economic conditions. We cannot assure that our broad-based geographic portfolio will be able to withstand an economic downturn, recession, cost inflation, commodity cost pressures, economic or political instability, competitive or other market pressures in one or more particular regions. Our ability to increase or maintain revenue and earnings depends on numerous factors, and there can be no assurance that our current or future business strategies will lead us to achieve our growth objectives or maintain our rates of growth.Our success depends, in part, on our key personnel.Our success depends, in part, on our ability to retain our key personnel. The unexpected loss of or failure to retain one or more of our key employees could adversely affect our business. Our success also depends, in part, on our continuing ability to identify, hire, train and retain other highly qualified personnel. Competition for these employees can be intense. We may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel in the future, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our business, including the execution of our global business strategy. For example, on December 13, 2011, the Company announced that in 2012 the Company will separate the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”). Any failure by a successor CEO or our management team to perform as expected may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. This risk may be exacerbated by the uncertainties associated with the implementation of our multi-year restructuring programs and long-range business review. Our business is conducted worldwide primarily in one channel, direct selling.Our business is conducted worldwide, primarily in the direct-selling channel. Sales are made to the ultimate consumer principally through approximately 6.4 million active independent Representatives worldwide. There is a high rate of turnover among Representatives, which is a common characteristic of the direct-selling business. As a result, in order to maintain our business and grow our business in the future, we need to recruit, retain and service Representatives on a continuing basis and continue to innovate the direct-selling model. Consumer purchasing habits, including reducing purchases of beauty and related products generally, or reducing purchases from Representatives or buying beauty and related products in channels other than in direct selling, such as retail, could reduce our sales, impact our ability to execute our global business strategy or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our competitors establish greater market share in the direct-selling channel, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. Furthermore, if any government bans or severely restricts our business method of direct selling, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected.Our ability to conduct business, particularly in international markets, may be affected by political, legal, tax and regulatory risks.Our ability to capitalize on growth, particularly in new international markets, and to maintain the current level of operations, particularly in our existing international markets, is exposed to various risks, including:•the possibility that a foreign government might ban or severely restrict our business method of direct selling; •the possibility that local civil unrest, economic or political instability, changes in macro-economic conditions, changes in diplomatic or trade relationships or other uncertainties might disrupt our operations in an international market;•the lack of well-established or reliable legal systems in certain areas where we operate;•the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities;•the possibility that a government authority might impose legal, tax or other financial burdens on our Representatives, as direct sellers, or on Avon, due, for example, to the structure of our operations in various markets; and9•the possibility that a government authority might challenge the status of our Representatives as independent contractors or impose employment or social taxes on our Representatives.For example, in 1998, the Chinese government banned direct selling, but, subsequently in April 2005, the Chinese government granted approval for us to proceed with a limited test of direct selling in certain areas. The Chinese government later issued direct-selling regulations in late 2005, and we were granted a direct-selling license by China's Ministry of Commerce in late February 2006, which allowed us to commence direct selling under such regulations. However, there can be no assurance that these and other regulations and approvals will not be rescinded, restricted or otherwise altered, or that other regulations and approvals will not be adopted, which may have a material adverse effect on our business in China. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully transition and evolve our business in China in connection with the development and evolution of the direct selling business in that market and successfully operate using a direct-selling model permitted in that market, or that we will experience growth in that or other emerging markets. We may encounter similar political, legal and regulatory risks in other international markets in our portfolio. We are also subject to the adoption, interpretation and enforcement by governmental agencies in the United States and abroad of other laws, rules, regulations or policies, including any changes thereto, such as restrictions on trade, import and export license requirements, privacy and data protection laws, records and information management, e-invoicing, and tariffs and taxes, which may require us to adjust our operations and systems in certain markets where we do business. For example, privacy and data protection laws are subject to frequently changing rules and regulations, which may vary among the various jurisdictions where we operate. If we are unable to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements, our business and/or reputation may be adversely affected. We cannot predict with certainty the outcome or the impact that pending or future legislative and regulatory changes may have on our business in the future.We are subject to financial risks related to our international operations, including exposure to foreign currency fluctuations.We operate globally, through operations in various locations around the world, and derive approximately 83% of our consolidated revenue from our operations outside of the U.S.One risk associated with our international operations is that the functional currency for most of our international operations is the applicable local currency. Because of this, movements in exchange rates may have a significant impact on our earnings, assets, cash flow and financial position. For example, currencies for which we have significant exposures include the Argentine peso, Australian dollar, Brazilian real, British pound, Canadian dollar, Chinese renminbi, Colombian peso, the euro, Mexican peso, Philippine peso, Polish zloty, Russian ruble, South Africa rand, Turkish lira, Ukrainian hryvnia and Venezuelan bolívar. Periodically, we implement foreign currency hedging and risk management strategies to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign exchange rates. There can be no assurance that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Another risk associated with our international operations is the possibility that a foreign government may impose currency remittance restrictions. Due to the possibility of government restrictions on transfers of cash out of the country and control of exchange rates, we may not be able to immediately repatriate cash at the official exchange rate or if the official exchange rate devalues, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, currency restrictions enacted by the Venezuelan government in 2003 have become more restrictive and have impacted the ability of our subsidiary in Venezuela (Avon Venezuela) to obtain foreign currency at the official rate to pay for imported products. Unless official foreign exchange is made more readily available, Avon Venezuela's operations will continue to be negatively impacted as it will need to obtain more of its foreign currency needs from non-government sources where the exchange rate is less favorable than the official rate.Inflation is another risk associated with our international operations. For example, Venezuela has been designated as a highly inflationary economy. Gains and losses resulting from the remeasurement of the financial statements of subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary economies are recorded in earnings. Given Venezuela's designation as a highly inflationary economy and the devaluation of the official rate, our revenue, operating profit, and net income will continue to be negatively impacted in 2012 and beyond. In addition, there can be no assurance that other countries in which we operate will not also become highly inflationary and that our operations will not be negatively impacted as a result. See the "Segment Review" section within MD&A on pages 31 through 32 of our 2011 Annual Report for additional information regarding Venezuela.A general economic downturn, a recession globally or in one or more of our geographic regions or sudden disruption in business conditions or other challenges may adversely affect our business and our access to liquidity and capital.A downturn in the economies in which we sell our products, including any recession in one or more of our geographic regions, or the current global macro-economic pressures, could adversely affect our business and our access to liquidity and capital. Recent global economic events over the past few years, including job losses, the tightening of credit markets and failures of financial institutions and other entities, have resulted in challenges to our business and a heightened concern regarding further deterioration globally. We could experience declines in revenues, profitability and cash flow due to reduced orders, payment delays, supply chain disruptions or other factors caused by economic or operational challenges. Any or all of these factors could potentially have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources, including our ability to issue commercial paper, raise additional capital and maintain credit lines and offshore cash balances. An adverse change in our credit ratings could result in an increase in our borrowing costs and have an adverse impact on our ability to access certain debt markets, including the commercial paper market.Consumer spending is also generally affected by a number of factors, including general economic conditions, inflation, interest rates, energy costs, gasoline prices and consumer confidence generally, all of which are beyond our control. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, such as beauty and related products, tend to decline during recessionary periods, when disposable income is lower, and may impact sales of our products. We face continued economic challenges in fiscal 2012 because customers may continue to have less money for discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, reduced access to credit and sharply falling home prices, among other things.In addition, sudden disruptions in business conditions as a result of a terrorist attack similar to the events of September 11, 2001, including further attacks, retaliation and the threat of further attacks or retaliation, war, adverse weather conditions and climate changes or other natural disasters, such as Hurricane Katrina, pandemic situations or large scale power outages can have a short or, sometimes, long-term impact on consumer spending.We face significant competition.We face competition from competing products in each of our lines of business, in both the domestic and international markets. Worldwide, we compete against products sold to consumers by other direct-selling and direct-sales companies and through the Internet, and against products sold through the mass market and prestige retail channels. We also face increasing competition in our developing and emerging markets.Within the direct selling channel, we compete on a regional, and often country-by-country basis, with our direct-selling competitors. There are also a number of direct-selling companies that sell product lines similar to ours, some of which also have worldwide operations and compete with us globally. Unlike most other beauty companies, we compete within a distinct business model where providing a compelling earnings opportunity for our Representatives is as critical as developing and marketing new and innovative products. Therefore, in contrast to a typical consumer packaged goods ("CPG") company which operates within a broad-based consumer pool, we must first compete for a limited pool of Representatives before we reach the ultimate consumer.Direct sellers compete for representative or entrepreneurial talent by providing a more competitive earnings opportunity or "better deal" than that offered by the competition. Representatives are attracted to a direct seller by competitive earnings opportunities, often through what are commonly known as "field incentives" in the direct selling industry. Competitors devote substantial effort to finding out the effectiveness of such incentives so that they can invest in incentives that are the most cost effective or produce the better payback. As the largest and oldest beauty direct seller, Avon's business model and strategies are often highly sought after, particularly by smaller local and more nimble competitors who seek to capitalize on our investment and experience. As a result, we are subject to significant competition for the recruitment of Representatives from other direct selling or network marketing organizations. It is therefore continually necessary to innovate and enhance our direct selling and service model as well as to recruit and retain new Representatives. If we are unable to do so our business will be adversely affected.Within the broader CPG industry, we compete against large and well-known cosmetics and fragrances companies that manufacture and sell broad product lines through various types of retail establishments. In addition, we compete against many other companies that manufacture and sell in more narrow Beauty product lines sold through retail establishments. This industry is highly competitive, and some of our principal competitors in the CPG industry are larger than we are and have greater resources than we do. Competitive activities on their part could cause our sales to suffer. We have many competitors in the highly competitive gift and decorative products and apparel industries globally, including retail establishments, principally department stores, gift shops and specialty retailers, and direct-mail companies specializing in these products. Our principal competition in the highly competitive fashion jewelry industry consists of a few large companies and many small companies that sell fashion jewelry through retail establishments.The number of competitors and degree of competition that we face in this beauty and related products industry varies widely from country to country. If our advertising, promotional, merchandising or other marketing strategies are not successful, if we are unable to deliver new products that represent technological breakthroughs, if we do not successfully manage the timing of new product introductions or the profitability of these efforts, or if for other reasons our Representatives or end customers perceive competitors' products as having greater appeal, then our sales and financial results may suffer.Any acquisitions may expose us to additional risks.We continuously review acquisition prospects that would complement our current product offerings, increase the size and geographic scope of our operations or otherwise offer growth and operating efficiency opportunities. The financing for any of these acquisitions could dilute the interests of our stockholders, result in an increase in our indebtedness or both. Acquisitions may entail numerous risks, including:•difficulties in assimilating acquired operations or products, including the loss of key employees from acquired businesses and disruption to our direct selling channel;•diversion of management's attention from our core business;•adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; and•risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience.For example, the challenges to our acquired Silpada business, including the effect of rising silver prices, macro-economic pressures, competition, and the impact of declines in expected future cash flows and growth rates, and a change in the discount rate used to determine the fair value of expected future cash flows, have impacted the estimated fair value of the recorded goodwill and intangible assets. An impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. See Note 17, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, on page F-42 through F-44 of our 2011 Annual Report for additional information regarding Silpada.Our failure to successfully complete the integration of any acquired business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or consummate acquisitions on favorable terms.A disruption of a key information technology system, process or site could adversely affect our operations.We employ information technology systems to support our business, including systems to support financial reporting, web-based tools, an ERP system which we are implementing on a worldwide basis, and an internal communication and data transfer network. We also employ information technology systems to support Representatives in many of our markets, including electronic order collection and invoicing systems and on-line training, and utilize third-party service providers. We have Internet sites in many of our markets, including business-to-business websites to support Representatives. We have undertaken initiatives to increase our reliance on employing information technology systems to enable our Representatives, as well as initiatives, as part of our multi-year restructuring programs, to outsource certain services, including the provision of global human resources information technology systems to our employees and other information technology processes. Any of these systems may be susceptible to outages or disruptions due to the complex landscape of localized applications and architectures as well as incidents due to legacy or unintegrated systems or both, fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, break-ins, corruption and similar events. There may be other challenges and risks as we upgrade, modernize, and standardize our information technology systems, such as through Service Model Transformation, on a worldwide basis. In addition, in the third quarter of 2011, we experienced challenges in implementing an ERP system in Brazil which impacted service levels, which in turn negatively impacted average order and Active Representative and revenue growth during 2011. Despite our industry-standard network security measures, including performing due diligence on our third-party vendors, our systems may also be vulnerable to computer viruses, data security breaches, break-ins, corruption and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with these systems. The occurrence of these or other events could disrupt our information technology systems and adversely affect our operations. Third-party suppliers provide, among other things, the raw materials used to manufacture our Beauty products, and the loss of these suppliers or a disruption or interruption in the supply chain may adversely affect our business.We manufacture and package almost all of our Beauty products. Raw materials, consisting chiefly of essential oils, chemicals, containers and packaging components, are purchased from various third-party suppliers for our Beauty products. Almost all of our non-Beauty products are purchased from various suppliers. Additionally, we produce the brochures that are used by 10Representatives to sell Avon products. The loss of multiple suppliers or a significant disruption or interruption in the supply chain could have a material adverse effect on the manufacturing and packaging of our Beauty products, the purchasing of our non-Beauty products or the production of our brochures. This risk may be exacerbated by our strategic sourcing initiative ("SSI"), which is shifting our purchasing strategy toward a globally-coordinated one, which leverages volumes. Furthermore, increases in the costs of raw materials or other commodities may adversely affect our profit margins if we are unable to pass along any higher costs in the form of price increases or otherwise achieve cost efficiencies in manufacturing and distribution.The loss of or a disruption in our manufacturing and distribution operations could adversely affect our business.Our principal properties consist of worldwide manufacturing facilities for the production of Beauty products, distribution centers where offices are located and where finished merchandise is packed and shipped to Representatives in fulfillment of their orders, and one principal research and development facility. Additionally, we also use third party manufacturers to manufacture certain of our products. Therefore, as a company engaged in manufacturing, distribution and research and development on a global scale, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including industrial accidents, environmental events, fires, strikes and other labor or industrial disputes, disruptions in logistics or information systems (such as the ERP system), loss or impairment of key manufacturing or distribution sites, product quality control, safety, licensing requirements and other regulatory or government issues, as well as natural disasters, pandemics, border disputes, acts of terrorism and other external factors over which we have no control. These risks may be exacerbated by our efforts to increase facility consolidation covering our manufacturing, distribution and supply footprints, which may require significant resources and be challenging to achieve, or if we are unable to successfully enhance our disaster recovery planning. The loss of, or damage to, any of our facilities or centers, or that of our third party manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our success depends, in part, on the quality and safety of our products.Our success depends, in part, on the quality and safety of our products, including the procedures we employ to detect the likelihood of hazard, manufacturing issues and unforeseen product misuse. If our products are found to be, or are perceived to be, defective or unsafe, or if they otherwise fail to meet our Representatives' or end customers' standards, our relationship with our Representatives or end customers could suffer, we could need to recall some of our products, our reputation or the appeal of our brand could be diminished, and we could lose market share and/or become subject to liability claims, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our ability to anticipate and respond to market trends and changes in consumer preferences could affect our financial results.Our continued success depends on our ability to anticipate, gauge and react in a timely and effective manner to changes in consumer spending patterns and preferences for beauty and related products. We must continually work to develop, produce and market new products, maintain and enhance the recognition of our brands, achieve a favorable mix of products, and refine our approach as to how and where we market and sell our products. While we devote considerable effort and resources to shape, analyze and respond to consumer preferences, consumer spending patterns and preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and can change rapidly. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to trends in the market for beauty and related products and changing consumer demands, our financial results will suffer. Furthermore, material shifts or decreases in market demand for our products, including as a result of changes in consumer spending patterns and preferences or incorrect forecasting of market demand, could result in us carrying inventory that cannot be sold at anticipated prices or increased product returns by our Representatives. Failure to maintain proper inventory levels or increased product returns by our Representatives could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, specifically patents and trademarks, our ability to compete could be negatively impacted.The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the value associated with our product innovations and our brand equity. We own the material patents and trademarks used in connection with the marketing and distribution of our major products both in the U.S. and in other countries where such products are principally sold. Although most of our material intellectual property is registered in the U.S. and in certain foreign countries in which we operate, there can be no assurance with respect to the rights associated with such intellectual property in those countries. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries, including many emerging markets, such as China, may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. The costs required to protect our patents and trademarks may be substantial.11We are involved, and may become involved in the future, in legal proceedings that, if adversely adjudicated or settled, could adversely affect our financial results.We are and may, in the future, become party to litigation. In general, litigation claims can be expensive and time consuming to bring or defend against and could result in settlements or damages that could significantly affect financial results. We are currently vigorously contesting certain of these litigation claims. However, it is not possible to predict the final resolution of the litigation to which we currently are or may in the future become party to, and the impact of certain of these matters on our business, results of operations and financial condition could be material.Government reviews, inquiries, investigations, and actions could harm our business or reputation.As we operate in various locations around the world, our operations in certain countries are subject to significant governmental scrutiny and may be harmed by the results of such scrutiny. The regulatory environment with regard to direct selling in emerging and developing markets where we do business is evolving, and officials in such locations often exercise broad discretion in deciding how to interpret and apply applicable regulations. From time to time, we may receive formal and informal inquiries from various government regulatory authorities about our business and compliance with local laws and regulations. Any determination that our operations or activities, or the activities of our Representatives, are not in compliance with existing laws or regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, interruptions of business, loss of supplier, vendor or other third party relationships, termination of necessary licenses and permits, or similar results, all of which could potentially harm our business and/or reputation. Even if an inquiry does not result in these types of determinations, it potentially could create negative publicity which could harm our business and/or reputation. We are investigating Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and related U.S. and foreign law matters, and from time to time we may conduct other internal investigations and compliance reviews, the consequences of which could negatively impact our business.From time to time, we may conduct internal investigations and compliance reviews, the consequences of which could negatively impact our business. Any determination that our operations or activities are not, or were not, in compliance with existing United States or foreign laws or regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, interruptions of business, loss of supplier, vendor or other third party relationships, termination of necessary licenses and permits, and other legal or equitable sanctions. Other legal or regulatory proceedings, as well as government investigations, which often involve complex legal issues and are subject to uncertainties, may also follow as a consequence. It is our policy to cooperate with U.S. and foreign government agencies and regulators, as appropriate, in connection with our investigations and compliance reviews.As previously reported, we have engaged outside counsel to conduct an internal investigation and compliance reviews focused on compliance with the FCPA and related U.S. and foreign laws in China and additional countries. The internal investigation, which is being conducted under the oversight of our Audit Committee, began in June 2008. As we reported in October 2008, we voluntarily contacted the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and the United States Department of Justice to advise both agencies of our internal investigation. We are continuing to cooperate with both agencies and inquiries by them, including but not limited to, signing tolling agreements, translating and producing documents and assisting with interviews.As previously reported in July 2009, in connection with the internal investigation, we commenced compliance reviews regarding the FCPA and related U.S. and foreign laws in additional countries in order to evaluate our compliance efforts. We are conducting these compliance reviews in a number of other countries selected to represent each of the Company's international geographic segments. The internal investigation and compliance reviews are focused on reviewing certain expenses and books and records processes, including, but not limited to, travel, entertainment, gifts, use of third party vendors and consultants and related due diligence, joint ventures and acquisitions, and payments to third-party agents and others, in connection with our business dealings, directly or indirectly, with foreign governments and their employees. The internal investigation and compliance reviews of these matters are ongoing, and we continue to cooperate with both agencies with respect to these matters. In connection with the internal investigation and compliance reviews, we continue to enhance our ethics and compliance program, including our policies and procedures, FCPA compliance-related training, FCPA third party due diligence program and other compliance-related resources.On October 26, 2011, the Company received a subpoena from the SEC requesting documents and information in connection with a Regulation FD investigation of the Company's contacts and communications with certain financial analysts and other representatives of the financial community during 2010 and 2011. The Company was also advised that a formal order of investigation was issued by the SEC relating to the FCPA matters described above and the Regulation FD matters that are referenced in the subpoena. The Company intends to cooperate fully with the SEC's investigation. We also have commenced an internal investigation, which is being conducted by outside counsel under the oversight of our Audit Committee, in connection with the Regulation FD matters.12In connection with the ongoing internal investigations and compliance reviews described above, certain personnel actions have been taken and additional personnel actions may be taken in the future. At this point we are unable to predict the duration, scope, developments in, results of, or consequences of the internal investigations and compliance reviews and the government's investigation.Any determination that our operations or activities, including our licenses or permits, importing or exporting, or product testing or approvals are not, or were not, in compliance with existing laws or regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, civil and criminal penalties, interruptions of business, modification of business practices and compliance programs, equitable remedies, including disgorgement, injunctive relief and other sanctions that we may take against our personnel or that may be taken against us or our personnel. Further, other countries in which we do business may initiate their own investigations and impose similar sanctions. Because the internal investigations, compliance reviews and the government's investigation are ongoing, there can be no assurance as to how the resulting consequences, if any, may impact our internal controls, business, reputation, consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.Significant changes in pension fund investment performance, assumptions relating to pension costs or required legal changes in pension funding rules may have a material effect on the valuation of pension obligations, the funded status of pension plans and our pension cost.Our funding policy for pension plans is to accumulate plan assets that, over the long run, will approximate the present value of projected benefit obligations. Our pension cost is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure pension obligations, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations at the measurement date and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in corresponding increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets, particularly equity securities, or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. A change in the discount rate would result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following fiscal years. Similarly, changes in the expected return on plan assets can result in significant changes in the net periodic pension cost of the following fiscal years. Finally, recent pension funding requirements under the Pension Protection Act of 2006, such as pension funding obligations and limitations on a hybrid plan's interest crediting rate to the "market rate of return", may result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations affecting the reported funded status of our pension plans. The market price of our common stock could be subject to fluctuations as a result of many factors.Factors that could affect the trading price of our common stock include the following:•variations in operating results;•economic conditions and volatility in the financial markets; •announcements or significant developments in connection with our business and with respect to beauty and related products or the beauty industry in general;•actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly or annual financial results;•unsolicited takeover proposals or proxy contests;•changes in our dividend practice;•developments in connection with the FCPA or other investigations and any litigation related thereto;•governmental policies and regulations;•estimates of our future performance or that of our competitors or our industries;•general economic, political, and market conditions;•market rumors; and•factors relating to competitors.The trading price of our common stock has been, and could in the future continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNot applicable.13