ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSYou should carefully consider each of the following risks associated with an investment in our publicly traded securities and all of the other information in our 2012 Annual Report. Our business may also be adversely affected by risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial. If any of the events contemplated by the following discussion of risks should occur, our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected.Our success depends on our ability to improve our financial and operational performance and execute fully our global business strategy.Our ability to improve our financial and operational performance and implement the key initiatives of our global business strategy is dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to:•implement our stabilization strategies, cost savings initiative, multi-year restructuring programs and other initiatives, including Service Model Transformation, and achieve anticipated savings and benefits from such programs and initiatives;•reverse declines in our top line performance and market share, and strengthen our brand image;•reduce costs, particularly SG&A costs, and reinvest certain of those savings effectively in consumer-oriented investments and other aspects of our business, while effectively managing our cost base;•implement appropriate product mix and pricing strategies that are more aligned with the preferences of local markets and achieve anticipated benefits from these strategies;•implement enterprise resource planning ("ERP") successfully, execute investments in information technology infrastructure and realize efficiencies across our supply chain, marketing processes, sales model and organizational structure;•implement customer service initiatives;•implement and continue to innovate our Internet platform and technology strategies;•effectively manage our outsourcing activities;•improve our marketing and advertising, including our brochures and our social media presence;•improve working capital, effectively manage inventory and implement initiatives to reduce inventory levels, including the potential impact on cash flows and obsolescence;•service our current indebtedness, secure short- and long-term financing, or financing at attractive rates, maintain appropriate capital investment, capital structure and cash flow levels to fund, among other things, cash dividends, and implement cash management, tax, foreign currency hedging and risk management strategies;•reverse declines in Active Representatives and Representative satisfaction by successfully reducing campaign complexity, implementing our Leadership program globally, enhancing the Representative experience and earnings potential and improving our brand image;•increase the productivity of Representatives through successful implementation of field activation programs and technology tools and enablers, Service Model Transformation and other investments in the direct-selling channel;•improve our business in North America through successfully implementing field transformation and a strong multi-level leadership structure;•improve management of our businesses in developing markets, including improving local information technology resource and management of local supply chains;•increase the number of consumers served per Representative and their engagement online, as well as to reach new consumers through a combination of new brands, new businesses, new channels and pursuit of strategic opportunities such as acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances with other companies; and•estimate and achieve any financial projections concerning, for example, future revenue, profit, cash flow, and operating margin increases.There can be no assurance that any of these initiatives will be successfully and fully executed within the time periods that we expect.8We may experience financial and strategic difficulties and delays or unexpected costs in completing our various restructuring and cost-savings initiatives, including achieving any anticipated savings and benefits of these initiatives.In an effort to improve operating performance, we identified certain actions in 2012 aimed at enhancing our operating model, reducing costs, and improving efficiencies. As a result of the analysis and the actions taken in connection with this restructuring, we have recorded total costs to implement of $73.9 million before taxes associated with approved initiatives. We also continue to implement our previously announced restructuring programs. For our restructuring program launched in 2005 (the "2005 Restructuring Program"), we have recorded total costs to implement restructuring initiatives of $527.1 million before taxes and expect our total costs when fully implemented to be approximately $525 million before taxes when considering historical and future costs along with expected gains from sales of properties. With regards to the restructuring program launched in 2009 (the "2009 Restructuring Program"), we have recorded total costs to implement restructuring initiatives of $255.0 million before taxes and expect total costs to implement to reach approximately $260 million before taxes. See Note 15, Restructuring Initiatives, on pages F-43 through F-46 of our 2012 Annual Report for details of the costs of the restructuring initiatives. We also recently outlined initial steps toward achieving the Company's previously communicated annual cost-savings target of $400 million by the end of 2015. In connection with this cost-savings target, on December 11, 2012 we announced initial steps of a cost savings initiative (the "$400M Cost Savings Initiative"), in an effort to stabilize the business and return Avon to sustainable growth. The $400M Cost Savings Initiative includes a targeted global headcount reduction of approximately 1,500 positions and related actions. As part of the $400M Cost Savings Initiative, the Company announced that it will exit the South Korea and Vietnam markets. These actions are aimed at concentrating resources on high priority markets and activities and boosting efficiencies, and are expected to be largely completed before the end of 2013. For the initiatives approved to date, cost to implement these actions is expected to be in the range of $70-80 million before taxes, of which $50.7 million before taxes was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2012. At this time we are unable to quantify the total costs when the initiative is fully implemented. In connection with the initial steps of the $400M Cost Savings Initiative, we expect to realize annualized savings of approximately $70 million before taxes. See the "Overview" section within MD&A on pages 22 through 23 of our 2012 Annual Report for further informationWe may not realize anticipated savings or benefits from one or more initiatives arising under our restructuring and cost-savings programs or other initiatives in full or in part or within the time periods we expect. Other events and circumstances, such as financial and strategic difficulties and delays or unexpected costs, may occur which could result in our not realizing all or any of the anticipated savings or benefits. If we are unable to realize these savings or benefits, our ability to continue to fund other initiatives may be adversely affected. In addition, our plans to invest these savings and benefits ahead of future growth means that such costs will be incurred whether or not we realize these savings and benefits. We are also subject to the risks of labor unrest, negative publicity and business disruption in connection with our restructuring and cost-savings programs and other initiatives. Failure to realize anticipated savings or benefits from our restructuring and cost-savings programs and other initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows.There can be no assurance that we will be able to reverse declining margins and net income and achieve profitable growth.There can be no assurance that we will be able to reverse declining margins and net income and achieve profitable growth in the future, particularly in our largest markets, such as Brazil and the U.S., and developing and emerging markets, such as Mexico and Russia. Our gross margin in 2012 declined to 61.1%, compared to 63.3% in 2011 and 62.8% in 2010. Our operating margin in 2012 declined to 2.9%, compared to 7.6% in 2011 and 9.9% in 2010. In 2012. we had a net loss of $38.2 million, as compared to net income of $517.8 million and $609.3 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Reversing these trends will depend on our ability to improve financial and operational performance and execution of our global business strategy. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve these goals. To reverse these trends in margins and net income and achieve profitable growth, we also need to successfully implement certain initiatives including our restructuring and cost-savings initiatives, and there can no assurance that we will be able to do so. Our achievement of profitable growth is also subject to the strengths and weaknesses of our individual markets, including our international markets, which are or may be impacted by global economic conditions. We cannot assure that our broad-based geographic portfolio will be able to withstand an economic downturn, recession, cost or wage inflation, commodity cost pressures, economic or political instability, competitive pressures or other market pressures in one or more particular regions. Failure to reverse declining margins and net income and achieve profitable growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows. 9Our business is conducted worldwide primarily in one channel, direct selling.Our business is conducted worldwide, primarily in the direct-selling channel. Sales are made to the ultimate consumer principally through more than 6 million active independent Representatives worldwide. There is a high rate of turnover among Representatives, which is a common characteristic of the direct selling business. In order to reverse losses of Representatives and grow our business in the future, we need to recruit, retain and service Representatives on a continuing basis and create attractive Representative earning opportunities, successfully implement initiatives such as Service Model Transformation and the One Simple Sales Model in the U.S., improve our product offerings and improve our marketing and advertising, among other things, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve these objectives. Additionally, consumer purchasing habits, including reducing purchases of beauty and related products generally, or reducing purchases from Representatives or buying beauty and related products in channels other than in direct selling, such as retail, could reduce our sales, impact our ability to execute our global business strategy or have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, if our competitors establish greater market share in the direct-selling channel, our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. Furthermore, if any government bans or severely restricts our business method of direct selling, our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected.We are subject to financial risks related to our international operations, including exposure to foreign currency fluctuations.We operate globally, through operations in various locations around the world, and derive approximately 85% of our consolidated revenue from our operations outside of the U.S.One risk associated with our international operations is that the functional currency for most of our international operations is the applicable local currency. For example, currencies for which we have significant exposures include the Argentine peso, Australian dollar, Brazilian real, British pound, Canadian dollar, Chinese renminbi, Colombian peso, the Czech Republic koruna, the euro, Mexican peso, New Zealand dollar, Peruvian new sol, Philippine peso, Polish zloty, Russian ruble, South Africa rand, Turkish lira, and Ukrainian hryvnia. As a result, movements in exchange rates may have a significant impact on our business, assets, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows. For example, in 2012, our revenues declined 5% compared to 2011 due to unfavorable foreign exchange, but were relatively unchanged on a Constant $ basis. There can be no assurance that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or cash flows. Another risk associated with our international operations is the possibility that a foreign government may impose currency remittance restrictions. Due to the possibility of government restrictions on transfers of cash out of the country and control of exchange rates, we may not be able to immediately repatriate cash at the official exchange rate. If this should occur, or if the official exchange rate devalues, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or cash flows. For example, currency restrictions enacted by the Venezuelan government in 2003 have become more restrictive and have impacted the ability of our subsidiary in Venezuela (Avon Venezuela) to obtain foreign currency at the official rate to pay for imported products. We are currently unable to predict the likelihood of government approvals of these requests, or if approved, the estimated time for remittance. Unless official foreign exchange is made more readily available, Avon Venezuela's operations will continue to be negatively impacted as it will need to obtain more of its foreign currency needs from non-government sources where the exchange rate is less favorable than the official rate.Inflation is another risk associated with our international operations. For example, Venezuela has been designated as a highly inflationary economy, and in February 2013 the Venezuelan government devalued its currency for the second time since January 1, 2010. Gains and losses resulting from the remeasurement of the financial statements of subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary economies are recorded in earnings. Given Venezuela's designation as a highly inflationary economy, the devaluation of the official rate and the potential for future devaluation, our revenue, operating profit, and net income will continue to be negatively impacted in 2013 and beyond. See the "Segment Review - Latin America" section within MD&A on pages 34 through 37 of our 2012 Annual Report for additional information regarding Venezuela. In addition, there can be no assurance that other countries in which we operate, such as Argentina, will not also become highly inflationary and that our revenue, operating profit, and net (loss) income will not be adversely impacted as a result. Our indebtedness and debt service obligations could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $3.2 billion of indebtedness outstanding and approximately $250 million of the $1 billion revolving credit facility could have been drawn down without violating any covenant. As of December 31, 2012, we had $375 million and $500 million of outstanding indebtedness that matures and will need to be refinanced or repaid in 2013 and March 2014, respectively. In addition, $137.5 million of the Company's term loan is due in June 2014. We may also incur additional long-term indebtedness and working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs, subject to certain restrictions under our indebtedness, including our revolving credit facility and our term loan, which would increase our total 10indebtedness. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings and other financing may be unavailable in an amount sufficient to enable us to fund our future financial obligations or our other liquidity needs. Our indebtedness could have material negative consequences on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows, including the following: •limitations on our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing sufficient to fund growth, such as working capital and capital expenditures requirements or to meet debt service requirements or other cash requirements, in particular during periods in which credit markets are weak;•a downgrade in our credit ratings;•an allocation of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thus reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes, including operating costs and capital expenditures that could improve our competitive position and operating results;•a sale of debt or equity securities or sale of some of our core assets (subject to certain restrictions under our existing indebtedness, including our revolving credit facility and our term loan), possibly on unfavorable terms, to meet payment obligations;•a limitation on our flexibility to plan for, or react to, competitive challenges in our business and the beauty industry;•the possibility that we are put at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that do not have as much debt as us, and competitors that may be in a more favorable position to access additional capital resources and withstand economic downturns; •limitations on our ability to execute business development activities to support our strategies;•limitations on our ability to invest in recruiting, retaining and servicing our Representatives; and•compliance with certain covenants in our debt instruments, including the impact of any significant restructuring charges or significant legal or regulatory settlements, or our ability to obtain necessary waivers from compliance with, or necessary amendments to, such covenants, and the impact any non-compliance may have on our ability to secure financing.If we incur additional indebtedness, the related risks that we now face (including those described above), could intensify.To service our debt obligations, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Any failure to meet our debt service obligations, or to refinance or repay our outstanding indebtedness as it matures, could materially adversely impact our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows.Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations and repay or refinance our maturing indebtedness will depend principally upon our future operating performance. As a result, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, will affect our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt service obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, incurring additional debt, issuing equity or convertible securities, utilizing our revolving credit facility, reducing discretionary expenditures, selling certain assets or reducing our cash dividend to shareholders (or combinations thereof). Refer to the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section within MD&A on pages 42 through 47 of our 2012 Annual Report for further information. Our ability to execute such alternative financing plans will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. In addition, our ability to execute such alternative financing plans may be subject to certain restrictions under our existing indebtedness, including our revolving credit facility and our term loan. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants compared to those associated with any debt that is being refinanced, which could further restrict our business operations. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or our inability to refinance our debt obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness is dependent on our subsidiaries' ability to generate cash flow and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are non-U.S. entities that may be prohibited by law or other regulations from distributing funds to us, and we may be subject to unfavorable foreign exchange rates or payment of repatriation taxes and withholdings. For example, in 2003 Venezuela enacted restrictions on foreign currency exchange, as more fully described under "We are subject to financial risks related to our international operations, 11including exposure to foreign currency fluctuations" and within the "Segment Review - Latin America" section within MD&A on pages 10 and 34 through 37 of our 2012 Annual Report. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. A failure to make scheduled payments, or other material uncured breaches of our contractual obligations, could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of our indebtedness and the exercise of other remedies by our creditors that could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows.We are currently conducting an internal investigation and compliance reviews focused on compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and related United States ("U.S.") and foreign laws and we are in discussions with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and the United States Department of Justice ("DOJ") regarding resolving their investigations of these matters. Based on our most recent communications with the SEC and the DOJ, we believe it is probable that we will incur a loss related to the government investigations. We are unable to reasonably estimate the amount or range of such loss; however, such loss could be material.As previously reported, we have engaged outside counsel to conduct an internal investigation and compliance reviews focused on compliance with the FCPA and related U.S. and foreign laws in China and additional countries. The internal investigation, which is being conducted under the oversight of our Audit Committee, began in June 2008.As previously reported in July 2009, in connection with the internal investigation, we commenced compliance reviews regarding the FCPA and related U.S. and foreign laws in additional countries in order to evaluate our compliance efforts. We are conducting these compliance reviews in a number of countries selected to represent each of the Company's international geographic segments. The internal investigation and compliance reviews are focused on reviewing certain expenses and books and records processes, including, but not limited to, travel, entertainment, gifts, use of third-party vendors and consultants and related due diligence, joint ventures and acquisitions, and payments to third-party agents and others, in connection with our business dealings, directly or indirectly, with foreign governments and their employees. The internal investigation and compliance reviews of these matters are ongoing. In connection with the internal investigation and compliance reviews, certain personnel actions, including termination of employment of certain senior members of management, have been taken, and additional personnel actions may be taken in the future. In connection with the internal investigation and compliance reviews, we continue to enhance our ethics and compliance program, including our policies and procedures, FCPA compliance-related training, FCPA third-party due diligence program and other compliance-related resources.As previously reported in October 2008, we voluntarily contacted the SEC and the DOJ to advise both agencies of our internal investigation. We have cooperated and continue to cooperate with investigations of these matters by the SEC and the DOJ. We have, among other things, signed tolling agreements, responded to inquiries, translated and produced documents, assisted with interviews, and provided information on our internal investigation and compliance reviews, personnel actions taken and steps taken to enhance our ethics and compliance program. As previously reported in August 2012, we are in discussions with the SEC and the DOJ regarding resolving the government investigations. These discussions are ongoing. There can be no assurance that a settlement with the SEC and the DOJ will be reached or, if a settlement is reached, the timing of any such settlement or the terms of any such settlement. We expect any such settlement may include civil and/or criminal fines and penalties as well as non-monetary remedies, such as oversight requirements and additional remediation and compliance requirements. We may be required to incur significant future costs to comply with the non-monetary terms of any settlement with the SEC and the DOJ. Under certain circumstances, we may also be required to advance significant professional fees and expenses to certain current and former Company employees in connection with these matters. Until any settlement or other resolution of these matters, we expect to continue to incur costs, primarily professional fees and expenses, which may be significant, in connection with the government investigations. At this point we are unable to predict the developments in, outcome of, and economic and other consequences of the government investigations or their impact on our earnings, cash flow, liquidity, financial condition and ongoing business. However, based on our most recent communications with the DOJ and the SEC, the Company believes that it is probable that the Company will incur a loss related to the government investigations. We are unable to reasonably estimate the amount or range of such loss; however, such loss could be material.A general economic downturn, a recession globally or in one or more of our geographic regions or sudden disruption in business conditions or other challenges may adversely affect our business, our access to liquidity and capital, and our credit ratings.A downturn in the economies in which we sell our products, including any recession in one or more of our geographic regions, or the current global macro-economic pressures, could adversely affect our business and our access to liquidity and capital. Recent global economic events over the past few years, including job losses, the tightening of credit markets and failures of financial institutions and other entities, have resulted in challenges to our business and a heightened concern regarding further deterioration globally. In addition, as mentioned above, our business is conducted primarily in the direct-selling channel. We could experience declines in revenues, profitability and cash flow due to reduced orders, payment delays, supply chain 12disruptions or other factors caused by such economic, operational or business challenges. Any or all of these factors could potentially have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources, including our ability to issue commercial paper, raise additional capital and maintain credit lines and offshore cash balances. Avon's long-term credit ratings are Baa2 (Stable Outlook) with Moody's and BBB- (Negative Outlook) with S&P, which are on the low end of investment grade, and BB+ (Stable Outlook) with Fitch, which is below investment grade. In February 2013, Fitch lowered their long-term credit rating from BBB- (Negative Outlook) to BB+ (Stable Outlook) and Moody's lowered their long-term credit rating from Baa1 (Negative Outlook) to Baa2 (Stable Outlook). Additional rating agency reviews could result in a further change in outlook or downgrade, which would likely result in an increase in financing costs, including interest expense under certain of our debt instruments, less favorable covenants and financial terms of our financing arrangements, and reduced access to lending sources, including the commercial paper market. Refer to the "Capital Resources - Private Notes" section within MD&A on pages 46 through 47 of our 2012 Annual Report for additional information regarding the impact of credit ratings on our Private Notes.Consumer spending is also generally affected by a number of factors, including general economic conditions, inflation, interest rates, energy costs, gasoline prices and consumer confidence generally, all of which are beyond our control. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, such as beauty and related products, tend to decline during recessionary periods, when disposable income is lower, and may impact sales of our products. We face continued economic challenges in fiscal 2013 because customers may continue to have less money for discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, reduced access to credit and sharply falling home prices, among other things.In addition, sudden disruptions in business conditions as a result of a terrorist attack similar to the events of September 11, 2001, including further attacks, retaliation and the threat of further attacks or retaliation, war, adverse weather conditions and climate changes or other natural disasters, for example, 2012 weather conditions impacting the Philippines, pandemic situations or large scale power outages can have a short- or, sometimes, long-term impact on consumer spending.Our ability to conduct business, particularly in international markets, may be affected by political, legal, tax and regulatory risks.Our ability to achieve growth, particularly in new international markets, and to improve operations, particularly in our existing international markets, is exposed to various risks, including:•the possibility that a foreign government might ban or severely restrict our business method of direct selling; •the possibility that local civil unrest, economic or political instability, bureaucratic delays, changes in macro-economic conditions, changes in diplomatic or trade relationships or other uncertainties might disrupt our operations in an international market;•the lack of well-established or reliable legal systems in certain areas where we operate;•the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities, including exposure to tax assessments without prior notice or the opportunity to review the basis for any such assessments in certain jurisdictions;•the possibility that a government authority might impose legal, tax or other financial burdens on our Representatives, as direct sellers, or on Avon, due, for example, to the structure of our operations in various markets; and•the possibility that a government authority might challenge the status of our Representatives as independent contractors or impose employment or social taxes on our Representatives.We are also subject to the adoption, interpretation and enforcement by governmental agencies in the U.S. (including on federal, state and local levels) and abroad of other laws, rules, regulations or policies, including any changes thereto, such as restrictions on trade, license and permit requirements, import and export license requirements, privacy and data protection laws, anti-corruption laws, environmental laws, records and information management, e-invoicing, tariffs and taxes, health care reform requirements such as the Patient Protection and Affordable Healthcare Act, and regulation of product claims or ingredients, which may require us to adjust our operations and systems in certain markets where we do business. For example, privacy and data protection laws are subject to frequently changing rules and regulations, which may vary among the various jurisdictions where we operate. If we are unable to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements, our business and/or reputation may be adversely affected. We cannot predict with certainty the outcome or the impact that pending or future legislative and regulatory changes may have on our business in the future.Our success depends, in part, on our key personnel.Our success depends, in part, on our ability to retain our key personnel. The unexpected loss of or failure to retain one or more of our key employees could adversely affect our business. Our success also depends, in part, on our continuing ability to identify, hire, attract, train, develop and retain other highly qualified personnel. Competition for these employees can be intense and our ability to hire, attract and retain them depends on our ability to provide competitive compensation. We may not be able 13to attract, assimilate, develop or retain qualified personnel in the future, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our business, including the execution of our global business strategy. For example, since 2011, there have been many changes to the Company's senior management, including a new chief executive officer and chief financial officer. Any failure by our management team to perform as expected may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. This risk may be exacerbated by the uncertainties associated with the implementation of our stabilization strategies and restructuring and cost-savings initiatives. We face intense competition and can make no assurances about our ability to overcome our competitive challenges.We face intense competition from competing products in each of our lines of business, in both the domestic and international markets. Worldwide, we compete against products sold to consumers by other direct selling and direct sales companies and through the Internet, and against products sold through the mass market and prestige retail channels. We also face increasing competition in our developing and emerging markets, particularly Brazil.Within the direct-selling channel, we compete on a regional, and often country-by-country, basis with our direct selling competitors. There are also a number of direct selling companies that sell product lines similar to ours, some of which also have worldwide operations and compete with us globally. Unlike most other beauty companies, we compete within a distinct business model where providing a compelling earnings opportunity for our Representatives is as critical as developing and marketing new and innovative products. Therefore, in contrast to a typical consumer packaged goods ("CPG") company which operates within a broad-based consumer pool, we must first compete for a limited pool of Representatives before we reach the ultimate consumer.Direct sellers compete for representative or entrepreneurial talent by providing a more competitive earnings opportunity or "better deal" than that offered by the competition. Representatives are attracted to a direct seller by competitive earnings opportunities, often through what are commonly known as "field incentives" in the direct selling industry. Competitors devote substantial effort to finding out the effectiveness of such incentives so that they can invest in incentives that are the most cost effective or produce the better payback. As the largest and oldest beauty direct seller, Avon's business model and strategies are often highly sought after, particularly by smaller and more nimble competitors who seek to capitalize on our investment and experience. As a result, we are subject to significant competition for the recruitment of Representatives from other direct selling or network marketing organizations. It is therefore continually necessary to innovate and enhance our direct selling and service model as well as to recruit and retain new Representatives. If we are unable to do so, our business will be adversely affected.Within the broader CPG industry, we compete against large and well-known cosmetics and fragrances companies that manufacture and sell broad product lines through various types of retail establishments. In addition, we compete against many other companies that manufacture and sell in more narrow beauty product lines sold through retail establishments. This industry is highly competitive, and some of our principal competitors in the CPG industry are larger than we are and have greater resources than we do. Competitive activities on their part could cause our sales to suffer. We have many competitors in the highly competitive gift and decorative products and apparel industries globally, including retail establishments, principally department stores, gift shops and specialty retailers, and direct-mail companies specializing in these products. Our principal competition in the highly competitive fashion jewelry industry consists of a few large companies and many small companies that sell fashion jewelry through retail establishments.The number of competitors and degree of competition that we face in the beauty and related products industry varies widely from country to country. If our advertising, promotional, merchandising or other marketing strategies are not successful, if we are unable to improve our product mix and offer new products that represent technological breakthroughs and are aligned with local preferences, if we do not successfully manage the timing of new product introductions or the profitability of these efforts, if we are unable to improve our Representative Value Proposition ("RVP"), or if for other reasons our Representatives or end customers perceive competitors' products as having greater appeal, then our sales and results of operations will be adversely affected.Our ability to improve our financial performance depends on our ability to anticipate and respond to market trends and changes in consumer preferences.Our ability to improve our financial performance depends on our ability to anticipate, gauge and react in a timely and effective manner to changes in consumer spending patterns and preferences for beauty and related products. We must continually work to develop, produce and market new products, maintain and enhance the recognition of our brands, achieve a favorable mix of products, and refine our approach as to how and where we market and sell our products. Consumer spending patterns and preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and can change rapidly. There can be no assurance that we will be able to anticipate and respond to trends in the market for beauty and related products and changing consumer demands and improve our financial results. 14Furthermore, material shifts or decreases in market demand for our products, including as a result of changes in consumer spending patterns and preferences or incorrect forecasting of market demand, could result in us carrying inventory that cannot be sold at anticipated prices or increased product returns by our Representatives. Failure to maintain proper inventory levels or increased product returns by our Representatives could result in a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows.A disruption of a key information technology system, process or site could adversely affect our operations.We employ information technology systems to support our business, including systems to support financial reporting, web-based tools, an ERP system which we are implementing on a worldwide basis, and an internal communication and data transfer network. We also employ information technology systems to support Representatives in many of our markets, including electronic order collection and invoicing systems and on-line training, and utilize third-party service providers. We have Internet sites in many of our markets, including business-to-business websites to support Representatives. We have undertaken initiatives to increase our reliance on employing information technology systems to enable our Representatives, as well as initiatives, as part of our multi-year restructuring programs, to outsource certain services, including the provision of global human resources information technology systems to our employees and other information technology processes. Any of these systems may be susceptible to outages or disruptions due to the complex landscape of localized applications and architectures as well as incidents due to legacy or unintegrated systems or both, fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, cyber security breaches, break-ins, corruption and similar events. There may be other challenges and risks as we upgrade, modernize, and standardize our information technology systems, such as through Service Model Transformation, on a worldwide basis. In addition, in the third quarter of 2011, we experienced challenges in implementing an ERP system in Brazil which impacted service levels, which in turn negatively impacted average order and Active Representative and revenue growth during 2011. Despite our network/ cyber security measures, our systems may also be vulnerable to computer viruses, data or cyber security breaches, break-ins, corruption and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with these systems. The occurrence of these or other events could disrupt our information technology systems and adversely affect our operations, as well as cause damage to our reputation, financial obligations to third parties, fines, penalties, regulatory proceedings and private litigation with potentially large costs, and could also result in deterioration in our employees' and customers' confidence in us and other competitive disadvantages. Third-party suppliers provide, among other things, the raw materials used to manufacture our Beauty products, and the loss of these suppliers or a disruption or interruption in the supply chain may adversely affect our business.We manufacture and package the majority of our Beauty products. Raw materials, consisting chiefly of essential oils, chemicals, containers and packaging components, are purchased from various third-party suppliers for our Beauty products. All of our Fashion and Home products are purchased from various suppliers. Additionally, we produce the brochures that are used by Representatives to sell Avon products. The loss of multiple suppliers or a significant disruption or interruption in the supply chain could have a material adverse effect on the manufacturing and packaging of our Beauty products, the purchasing of our Fashion and Home products or the production of our brochures. This risk may be exacerbated by our globally-coordinated purchasing strategy, which leverages volumes. In addition, regulatory action, such as restrictions on importation, may also disrupt or interrupt our supply chain. Furthermore, increases in the costs of raw materials or other commodities may adversely affect our profit margins if we are unable to pass along any higher costs in the form of price increases or otherwise achieve cost efficiencies in manufacturing and distribution. Significant changes in pension fund investment performance, assumptions relating to pension costs or required legal changes in pension funding rules may have a material effect on the valuation of pension obligations, the funded status of pension plans and our pension cost.Our funding policy for pension plans is to accumulate plan assets that, over the long run, will approximate the present value of projected benefit obligations. Our pension cost is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure pension obligations, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations at the measurement date and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in corresponding increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets, particularly equity securities, or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. Also, significant changes in the number of participants in the pension plans may result in additional funding obligations. A change in the discount rate would result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following fiscal years. Similarly, changes in the expected return on plan assets can result in significant changes in the net periodic pension cost of the following fiscal years. Pension funding requirement changes under the Pension Protection Act of 2006 affect pension funding obligations and may impose limitations on a hybrid plan's interest crediting rate to the "market rate of return." This may result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations affecting the reported funded status of our pension plans. Finally, if the Financial Accounting Standards Board adopts the International Financial Reporting Standards as part of generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP"), there could be changes 15in the required funding obligations. Please see "Pension, Postretirement and Postemployment Expense" within the "Critical Accounting Estimates" section of MD&A on pages 25 through 26 and Note 12, Employee Benefit Plans, on pages F-32 through F-40 of our 2012 Annual Report, for additional information regarding the impact of these factors on our pension plan obligations.Any acquisitions or divestitures may expose us to additional risks.We review acquisition prospects that would complement our current product offerings, increase the size and geographic scope of our operations or otherwise offer growth and operating efficiency opportunities. The financing for any of these acquisitions could dilute the interests of our stockholders, result in an increase in our indebtedness or both. Acquisitions may entail numerous risks, including:•difficulties in assimilating acquired operations or products, including the loss of key employees from acquired businesses and disruption to our direct-selling channel;•diversion of management’s attention from our core business;•adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; and•risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience.For example, the challenges to our acquired Silpada business, including the effect of rising silver prices, macro-economic pressures, competition, and the impact of declines in expected future cash flows and growth rates, and a change in the discount rate used to determine the fair value of expected future cash flows, have impacted the estimated fair value of our recorded goodwill and intangible assets. Further impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. See Note 17, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, on pages F-49 through F-51 of our 2012 Annual Report for additional information regarding Silpada. Our failure to successfully complete the integration of any acquired business could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or consummate acquisitions on favorable terms.For divestitures, success is also dependent on effectively and efficiently separating the divested unit or business from the Company and reducing or eliminating associated overhead costs. In cases where a divestiture is not successfully implemented or completed, the Company's business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.The loss of, or a disruption in, our manufacturing and distribution operations could adversely affect our business.Our principal properties consist of worldwide manufacturing facilities for the production of Beauty products, distribution centers where offices are located and where finished merchandise is packed and shipped to Representatives in fulfillment of their orders, and one principal research and development facility. Additionally, we use third-party manufacturers to manufacture certain of our products. Therefore, as a company engaged in manufacturing, distribution and research and development on a global scale, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including industrial accidents, environmental events, fires, strikes and other labor or industrial disputes, disruptions in logistics or information systems (such as the ERP system), loss or impairment of key manufacturing or distribution sites, product quality control issues, safety concerns, licensing requirements and other regulatory or government issues, as well as natural disasters, pandemics, border disputes, acts of terrorism and other external factors over which we have no control. These risks may be exacerbated by our efforts to increase facility consolidation covering our manufacturing, distribution and supply footprints, which may require significant resources and be challenging to achieve, or if we are unable to successfully enhance our disaster recovery planning. The loss of, or damage to, any of our facilities or centers, or those of our third-party manufacturers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows.Our success depends, in part, on the quality and safety of our products.Our success depends, in part, on the quality and safety of our products, including the procedures we employ to detect the likelihood of hazard, manufacturing issues and unforeseen product misuse. If our products are found to be, or are perceived to be, defective or unsafe, or if they otherwise fail to meet our Representatives' or end customers' standards, our relationship with our Representatives or end customers could suffer, we could need to recall some of our products, our reputation or the appeal of our brand could be diminished, and we could lose market share and/or become subject to liability claims, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows.16If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, specifically patents and trademarks, our ability to compete could be adversely affected.The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the value associated with our product innovations and our brand equity. We own the material patents and trademarks used in connection with the marketing and distribution of our major products both in the U.S. and in other countries where such products are principally sold. Although most of our material intellectual property is registered in the U.S. and in certain foreign countries in which we operate, there can be no assurance with respect to the rights associated with such intellectual property in those countries. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries, including many emerging markets, such as China, may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. The costs required to protect our patents and trademarks may be substantial.We are involved, and may become involved in the future, in legal proceedings that, if adversely adjudicated or settled, could adversely affect our financial results.We are and may, in the future, become party to litigation, including, for example, claims alleging violation of the federal securities laws or claims relating to our advertising. In general, litigation claims can be expensive and time consuming to bring or defend against and could result in settlements or damages that could significantly affect financial results. We are currently vigorously contesting certain of these litigation claims. However, it is not possible to predict the final resolution of the litigation to which we currently are or may in the future become party, and the impact of certain of these matters on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows.Government reviews, inquiries, investigations, and actions could harm our business or reputation. In addition, from time to time we may conduct other internal investigations and compliance reviews, the consequences of which could negatively impact our business or reputation.As we operate in various locations around the world, our operations in certain countries are subject to significant governmental scrutiny and may be harmed by the results of such scrutiny. The regulatory environment with regard to direct selling in emerging and developing markets where we do business is evolving, and officials in such locations often exercise broad discretion in deciding how to interpret and apply applicable regulations. From time to time, we may receive formal and informal inquiries from various government regulatory authorities about our business and compliance with local laws and regulations. In addition, from time to time, we may conduct internal investigations and compliance reviews. The consequences of such government reviews, inquiries, investigations, and actions or such internal investigations and compliance reviews may adversely impact our business, prospects, reputation, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or cash flows.Any determination that our operations or activities, or the activities of our Representatives, are not, or were not, in compliance with existing U.S. or foreign laws or regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, interruptions of business, loss of supplier, vendor or other third-party relationships, termination of necessary licenses and permits, and other legal or equitable sanctions. Other legal or regulatory proceedings, as well as government investigations, which often involve complex legal issues and are subject to uncertainties, may also follow as a consequence. Additionally, any determination that our operations or activities, or the activities of our Representatives, including our licenses or permits, importing or exporting, or product testing or approvals are not, or were not, in compliance with existing laws or regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, civil and criminal penalties, interruptions of business, modification of business practices and compliance programs, equitable remedies, including disgorgement, injunctive relief and other sanctions that we may take against our personnel or that may be taken against us or our personnel. Further, other countries in which we do business may initiate their own investigations and impose similar sanctions. Even if an inquiry or investigation does not result in these types of determinations, it potentially could create negative publicity.The market price of our common stock could be subject to fluctuations as a result of many factors.Factors that could affect the trading price of our common stock include the following:•variations in operating results;•our ability to repay or refinance our indebtedness that matures in 2013 and 2014 and the terms of any such refinancing;•developments in connection with the FCPA or other investigations and any litigation related thereto;•a change in our credit ratings;•economic conditions and volatility in the financial markets; •announcements or significant developments in connection with our business and with respect to beauty and related products or the beauty industry in general;•actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly or annual financial results;•unsolicited takeover proposals or proxy contests;17•changes in our dividend practice;•governmental policies and regulations;•estimates of our future performance or that of our competitors or our industries;•general economic, political, and market conditions;•market rumors; and•factors relating to competitors.The trading price of our common stock has been, and could in the future continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNot applicable.