Risk Factors There are many factors that affect our business and the results of our operations, many of which are beyond our control. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. We are subject to the cyclical nature of the oil and gas industry. Our business depends primarily on the level of activity by the oil and gas companies in the Gulf of Mexico and along the Gulf Coast. This level of activity has traditionally been volatile as a result of fluctuations in oil and gas prices and their uncertainty in the future. The purchases of the products and services we provide are, to a substantial extent, deferrable in the event oil and gas companies reduce capital expenditures. Therefore, the willingness of our customers to make expenditures is critical to our operations. The levels of such capital expenditures are influenced by: • oil and gas prices and industry perceptions of future price levels; • the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; • the ability of oil and gas companies to generate capital; • the sale and expiration dates of offshore leases; • the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; and • local and international political and economic conditions. Although activity levels in production and development sectors of the oil and gas industry are less immediately affected by changing prices and as a result, less volatile than the exploration sector, producers generally react to declining oil and gas prices by reducing expenditures. This has in the past and may in the future, adversely affect our business. We are unable to predict future oil and gas prices or the level of oil and gas industry activity. A prolonged low level of activity in the oil and gas industry will adversely affect the demand for our products and services and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our industry is highly competitive. We compete in highly competitive areas of the oilfield services industry. The products and services of each of our principal industry segments are sold in highly competitive markets, and our revenues and earnings may be affected by the following factors: • changes in competitive prices; • fluctuations in the level of activity in major markets; • an increased number of liftboats in the Gulf of Mexico; • general economic conditions; and • governmental regulation. 10 Table of Contents We compete with the oil and gas industry’s largest integrated and independent oilfield service providers. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the market areas that we serve are price, product and service quality, availability and technical proficiency. Our operations may be adversely affected if our current competitors or new market entrants introduce new products or services with better features, performance, prices or other characteristics than our products and services. Further, additional liftboat capacity in the Gulf of Mexico would increase competition for that service. Competitive pressures or other factors also may result in significant price competition that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Finally, competition among oilfield service and equipment providers is also affected by each provider’s reputation for safety and quality. Although we believe that our reputation for safety and quality service is good, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain our competitive position. We may not be able to acquire oil and gas properties to increase our asset utilization. Our strategy to increase our asset utilization by performing work on our own properties depends on our ability to find, acquire, manage and decommission mature Gulf of Mexico oil and gas properties. Factors that may hinder our ability to acquire these properties include competition, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and the number of properties for sale. Another factor that could hinder our ability to acquire oil and gas properties is our ability to assume additional decommissioning liabilities without posting bonds or providing other financial security to the U.S. Department of Interior, Minerals Management Service, or MMS, or the sellers of these properties, the cost of which may render our proposal unattractive to us or the sellers. In certain instances, the sellers of these properties may have continuing obligations to us that are unsecured, and although we believe these arrangements represent minimal credit risk, we cannot guarantee that any seller will not become a credit risk in the future. If we are unable to find and acquire properties meeting our criteria on acceptable terms to us, we will not be able to increase the utilization of our assets and services by performing work on our own properties during seasonal downtime and when we have available equipment not being utilized by our traditional customer base. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to locate and acquire such properties. Estimates of our oil and gas reserves and potential liabilities relating to our oil and gas properties may be incorrect. We acquire mature oil and gas properties in the Gulf of Mexico on an “as is” basis and assume all plugging, abandonment, restoration and environmental liability with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties. In addition, we acquire these properties without obtaining bonds, other than as required by MMS to secure the plugging and abandonment obligations. Acquisitions of these properties require an assessment of a number of factors beyond our control, including estimates of recoverable reserves, future oil and gas prices, operating costs and potential environmental and plugging and abandonment liabilities. These assessments are complex and inherently imprecise, and, with respect to estimates of oil and gas reserves, require significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. In addition, since these properties are typically older and near the end of their economic lives, our facilities and operations may be more susceptible to hurricane damage, equipment failure or mechanical problems. In connection with these assessments, we perform due diligence reviews that we believe are generally consistent with industry practices. However, our reviews may not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, our reviews may not permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. We may not always discover structural, subsurface, environmental or other problems that may exist or arise. Actual future production, cash flows, development expenditures, operating and abandonment expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those estimated by us and any significant variance in these assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantity and value of our proved reserves. Therefore, the risk is that we may overestimate the value of economically recoverable reserves and/or underestimate the cost of plugging wells and abandoning production facilities. If costs of abandonment are materially greater or actual reserves are materially lower than our estimates, they could have an adverse effect on earnings. 11 Table of Contents We are susceptible to adverse weather conditions in the Gulf of Mexico. Certain areas in and near the Gulf of Mexico experience hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a relatively frequent basis. Substantially all of our facilities and assets offshore and along the Gulf of Mexico, including the structures and pipelines on our offshore oil and gas properties, are susceptible to damage and/or total loss by these storms. Damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas could potentially cause us to curtail both service and production operations for significant periods of time until damage can be assessed and repaired. Moreover, even if we do not experience direct damage from any of these storms, we may experience disruptions in our operations because customers may curtail their development activities due to damage to their platforms, pipelines and other related facilities. Due to the losses as a consequence of the hurricanes that occurred in the Gulf of Mexico in 2005 and 2004, we may not be able to obtain future insurance coverage comparable with that of prior years, thus putting us at a greater risk of loss due to severe weather conditions. We are also likely to experience increased cost for available insurance coverage which will likely impose higher deductibles and limit maximum aggregate recoveries for certain perils such as hurricane related windstorm damage or loss. Any significant uninsured losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We depend on key personnel. Our success depends to a great degree on the abilities of our key management personnel, particularly our chief executive and operating officers and other high-ranking executives. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could adversely affect us. We depend on significant customers. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from a small number of major and independent oil and gas companies. In 2005, Shell accounted for approximately 10% of our total revenue. We did not have a single customer account for more than 10% of our total revenue in 2004 and in 2003, sales to a single customer accounted for approximately 11% of our total revenue. Our inability to continue to perform services for a number of our large existing customers, if not offset by sales to new or other existing customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. The dangers inherent in our operations and the limits on insurance coverage could expose us to potentially significant liability costs and materially interfere with the performance of our operations. Our operations are subject to numerous operating risks inherent in the oil and gas industry that could result in substantial losses. These risks include: • fires; • explosions, blowouts, and cratering; • well blowouts; • hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions; • mechanical problems, including pipe failure; • abnormally pressured formations; and • environmental accidents, including oil spills, gas leaks or ruptures, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas, brine or well fluids, or other discharges of toxic gases or other pollutants. Our liftboats are also subject to operating risks such as catastrophic marine disaster, adverse weather conditions, collisions and navigation errors. The occurrence of these risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury, loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property or equipment, or damages to the environment. In addition, certain of our employees who perform services on offshore platforms and vessels are covered by provisions of the Jones Act, the Death on the High Seas Act and general maritime law. These laws make the liability limits established by state workers’ compensation laws inapplicable to these employees and instead permit 12 Table of Contents them or their representatives to pursue actions against us for damages for job-related injuries. In such actions, there is generally no limitation on our potential liability. Any litigation arising from a catastrophic occurrence involving our services, equipment or oil and gas production operations could result in large claims for damages. The frequency and severity of such incidents affect our operating costs, insurability and relationships with customers, employees and regulators. Any increase in the frequency or severity of such incidents, or the general level of compensation awards with respect to such incidents, could affect our ability to obtain projects from oil and gas companies or insurance. We maintain several types of insurance to cover liabilities arising from our services, including onshore and offshore non-marine operations, as well as marine vessel operations. These policies include primary and excess umbrella liability policies with limits of $50 million dollars per occurrence, including sudden and accidental pollution incidents. We also maintain property insurance on our physical assets, including marine vessels, and operating equipment. Successful claims for which we are not fully insured may adversely affect our working capital and profitability. For our oil and gas operations, we maintain control of well, operators extra expense and pollution liability coverage, to include our liabilities under the federal Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA. Limits maintained for these operations are $50 million per occurrence for well control incidents, and the limit is also $50 million per occurrence for non-well control events. We also maintain property insurance on our physical assets, including offshore production facilities and operating equipment. As a result of the losses caused by recent hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico, we expect very substantial increases in our costs of insurance, as well as increased deductibles and self-insured retentions. We also expect that upon renewal, this property insurance coverage will be subject to an annual loss limit of $35 million in the aggregate with respect to property damage caused by hurricanes and named storms. We are seeking alternatives to allow us to increase this annual aggregate limit. Any significant uninsured losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The cost of many of the types of insurance coverage maintained by us has increased significantly during recent years and resulted in the retention of additional risk by us, primarily through higher insurance deductibles. Very few insurance underwriters offer certain types of insurance coverage maintained by us, and there can be no assurance that any particular type of insurance coverage will continue to be available in the future, that we will not accept retention of additional risk through higher insurance deductibles or otherwise, or that we will be able to purchase our desired level of insurance coverage at commercially feasible rates. Further, due to the losses as a result of hurricanes that occurred in the Gulf of Mexico in 2005 and 2004, we may not be able to obtain future insurance coverage comparable with that of prior years, thus putting us at a greater risk of loss due to severe weather conditions. In addition, we are likely to experience increased cost for available insurance coverage which may impose higher deductibles and limit maximum aggregate recoveries for certain perils such as hurricane related windstorm damage or loss. As a result, we may be forced to modify our risk management program in response to changes in the insurance market, including increased risk retention. Any significant uninsured losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The occurrence of any of these risks could also subject us to clean-up obligations, regulatory investigation, penalties or suspension of operations. Further, our operations may be materially curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, including: • the presence of unanticipated pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions; • compliance with governmental requirements; and • shortages or delays in obtaining drilling rigs or in the delivery of equipment and services. Oil and gas prices are volatile, and low prices could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our revenues, profitability and future growth and the carrying value of our oil and gas properties depend substantially on the prices we realize for our production. Our realized prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. Historically, the markets for oil and gas have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Among the factors that can cause this volatility are: 13 Table of Contents • worldwide or regional demand for energy, which is affected by economic conditions; • the domestic and foreign supply of oil and gas; • weather conditions; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations; • political conditions in oil and gas producing regions; • the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree upon and maintain oil prices and production levels; and • the price and availability of alternative fuel sources. It is impossible to predict oil and gas price movements with certainty. Lower oil and gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis but also may reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can produce economically. A substantial or extended decline in oil or gas prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to finance planned capital expenditures. Further, oil prices and gas prices do not necessarily move together. Our oil and gas revenues are subject to commodity price risk. We are subject to market risk exposure in the pricing applicable to our oil and gas production. Considering the historical and continued volatility and uncertainty of prices received for oil and gas production, we have and may continue to enter into hedging arrangements to reduce our exposure to decreases in the prices of natural gas and oil. Hedging arrangements expose us to risk of significant financial loss in some circumstances including circumstances where: • there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and actual prices received; • our production and/or sales of natural gas are less than expected; • payments owed under derivative hedging contracts typically come due prior to receipt of the hedged month’s production revenue; and • the other party to the hedging contract defaults on its contract obligations. We cannot assure you that the hedging transactions we enter into will adequately protect us from declines in the prices of natural gas and oil. In addition, our hedging arrangements will limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for natural gas and oil. Factors beyond our control affect our ability to market oil and gas. The availability of markets and the volatility of product prices are beyond our control and represent a significant risk. The marketability of our production depends upon the availability and capacity of gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. The unavailability or lack of capacity of these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. Our ability to market oil and gas also depends on other factors beyond our control, including: • the level of domestic production and imports of oil and gas; • the proximity of gas production to gas pipelines; • the availability of pipeline capacity; • the demand for oil and natural gas by utilities and other end users; • the availability of alternate fuel sources; • state and federal regulation of oil and gas marketing; and • federal regulation of gas sold or transported in interstate commerce. If these factors were to change dramatically, our ability to market oil and gas could be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents We are vulnerable to the potential difficulties associated with rapid expansion. We have grown rapidly over the last several years through internal growth and acquisitions of other companies. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to manage the rapid growth that we have experienced and the demands from increased responsibility on our management personnel. The following factors could present difficulties to us: • lack of sufficient executive-level personnel; • increased administrative burden; and • increased logistical problems common to large, expansive operations. If we do not manage these potential difficulties successfully, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our inability to control the inherent risks of acquiring businesses could adversely affect our operations. Acquisitions have been and we believe will continue to be a key element of our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify and acquire acceptable acquisition candidates on terms favorable to us in the future. We may be required to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions and also may issue equity securities in connection with such acquisitions. Such additional debt service requirements may impose a significant burden on our results of operations and financial condition. The issuance of additional equity securities could result in significant dilution to our stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully consolidate the operations and assets of any acquired business with our own business. Acquisitions may not perform as expected when the acquisition was made and may be dilutive to our overall operating results. In addition, our management may not be able to effectively manage our increased size or operate a new line of business. The nature of our industry subjects us to compliance with regulatory and environmental laws. Our business is significantly affected by state and federal laws and other regulations relating to the oil and gas industry in general, and more specifically with respect to the environment, health and safety, waste management and the manufacture, storage, handling and transportation of hazardous wastes, and by changes in and the level of enforcement of such laws. The production of oil and gas is subject to regulation under a wide range of local, state and federal statutes, rules, orders and regulations. Federal, state and local statutes and regulations require permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds and plugging and abandonment and reports concerning operations. Our oil and gas operations are conducted on federal leases that are administered by MMS and are required to comply with the regulations and orders promulgated by MMS under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act. MMS regulations also establish construction requirements for production facilities located on federal offshore leases and govern the plugging and abandonment of wells and the removal of production facilities from these leases. Under limited circumstances, MMS could require us to suspend or terminate our operations on a federal lease. MMS also establishes the basis for royalty payments due under federal oil and natural gas leases through regulations issued under applicable statutory authority. The failure to comply with these rules and regulations can result in substantial penalties. The regulatory burden on the oil and natural gas industry increases our cost of doing business and, consequently, affects our profitability. Our oil and gas operations are also subject to certain requirements under OPA. Under OPA and its implementing regulations, “responsible parties,” including owners and operators of certain vessels and offshore facilities, are strictly liable for damages resulting from spills of oil and other related substances in U.S. waters, subject to certain limitations. OPA also requires a responsible party to submit proof of its financial ability to cover environmental cleanup and restoration costs that could be incurred in connection with an oil spill. Further, OPA imposes other requirements, such as the preparation of oil spill response plans. In the event of a substantial oil spill originating from one of our facilities, we could be required to expend potentially significant amounts of capital which could have a material adverse effect on our future operations and financial results. 15 Table of Contents We have potential environmental liabilities with respect to our offshore and onshore operations, including our environmental cleaning services. Certain environmental laws provide for joint and several liabilities for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. These environmental statutes may impose liability without regard to negligence or fault. In addition, we may be subject to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as a result of alleged exposure to hazardous substances. We believe that our present operations substantially comply with applicable federal and state pollution control and environmental protection laws and regulations. We also believe that compliance with such laws has had no material adverse effect on our operations. However, such environmental laws are changed frequently. Sanctions for noncompliance may include revocation of permits, corrective action orders, administrative or civil penalties and criminal prosecution. We are unable to predict whether environmental laws will materially adversely affect our future operations and financial results. Federal and state laws that require owners of non-producing wells to plug the well and remove all exposed piping and rigging before the well is permanently abandoned significantly affect the demand for our plug and abandonment services. A decrease in the level of enforcement of such laws and regulations in the future would adversely affect the demand for our services and products. In addition, demand for our services is affected by changing taxes, price controls and other laws and regulations relating to the oil and gas industry generally. The adoption of laws and regulations curtailing exploration and development drilling for oil and gas in our areas of operations for economic, environmental or other policy reasons could also adversely affect our operations by limiting demand for our services. We are unable to predict the level of enforcement of existing laws and regulations, how such laws and regulations may be interpreted by enforcement agencies or court rulings, or whether additional laws and regulations will be adopted. We are also unable to predict the effect that any such events may have on us, our business, or our financial condition. A terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm our business. Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts and other armed conflict involving the U.S. may adversely affect the U.S. and global economies and could prevent us from meeting our financial and other obligations. If any of these events occur, the resulting political instability and societal disruption could reduce overall demand for oil and natural gas, potentially putting downward pressure on demand for our services and causing a reduction in our revenues. Oil and gas related facilities could be direct targets of terrorist attacks, and our operations could be adversely impacted if infrastructure integral to customers’ operations is destroyed or damaged. Costs for insurance and other security may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. We will be subject to additional political, economic, and other uncertainties as we expand our international operations. A key element of our business strategy is to continue our international expansion into international oil and gas producing areas such as Mexico, Trinidad, Venezuela, West Africa, the Middle East, Australia, Eastern Canada and the North Sea. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in any business operating in foreign countries including, but not limited to: • political, social and economic instability; • potential seizure or nationalization of assets; • increased operating costs; • modification or renegotiating of contracts; • import-export quotas; • currency fluctuations; and • other forms of government regulation which are beyond our control. Our operations have not yet been affected to any significant extent by such conditions or events, but as our international operations expand, the exposure to these risks will increase. We could, at any one time, have a significant amount of our revenues generated by operating activity in a particular country. Therefore, our results of 16 Table of Contents operations could be susceptible to adverse events beyond our control that could occur in the particular country in which we are conducting such operations. We anticipate that our contracts to provide services internationally will generally provide for payment in U.S. dollars and that we will not make significant investments in foreign facilities. To the extent we make investments in foreign facilities or receive revenues in currencies other than U.S. dollars, the value of our assets and our income could be adversely affected by fluctuations in the value of local currencies. Additionally, our competitiveness in international market areas may be adversely affected by regulations, including, but not limited to, regulations requiring: • the awarding of contracts to local contractors; • the employment of local citizens; and • the establishment of foreign subsidiaries with significant ownership positions reserved by the foreign government for local citizens. We cannot predict what types of the above events may occur. We might be unable to employ a sufficient number of skilled workers. The delivery of our products and services require personnel with specialized skills and experience. As a result, our ability to remain productive and profitable will depend upon our ability to employ and retain skilled workers. In addition, our ability to expand our operations depends in part on our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. The demand for skilled workers in the Gulf Coast region is high, and the supply is limited. In addition, although our employees are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement, the marine services industry has been targeted by maritime labor unions in an effort to organize Gulf of Mexico employees. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers or the unionization of our Gulf of Mexico employees could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates that we must pay or both. If either of these events were to occur, our capacity and profitability could be diminished and our growth potential could be impaired. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 