Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves risks. When considering an investment in our securities, you should carefully consider all of the risk factors described below, as well as in other reports and materials we file with the SEC and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. If any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this Form 10-K were to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, or prospects could be materially adversely affected. In such event, the trading price of our common stock or value of our other securities could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Additional risk and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Trends in oil and gas prices affect the level of exploration, development and production activity in the oil and gas industry. Our business depends on the level of oil and gas exploration, development and production activity by oil and gas companies worldwide. The level of exploration, development and production activity is directly affected by trends in oil and gas prices, which historically have been volatile. Oil and gas prices are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of other factors beyond our control. The availability of quality drilling prospects, exploration success, relative production costs, the stage of reservoir development and political and regulatory environments are also expected to affect the demand for our services. Worldwide military, political and economic events have in the past contributed to oil and gas price volatility and are likely to do so in the future. Any prolonged reduction of oil and gas prices, as well as anticipated declines, could also result in lower levels of exploration, development and production activity. The demand for our services may be affected by numerous factors, including the following: • the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production; • the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; • demand for energy, which is affected by worldwide economic activity and population growth; • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to set and maintain production levels for oil; • the level of excess production capacity; • the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; • domestic and global political and economic uncertainty, socio-political unrest and instability or hostilities; • weather conditions and changes in weather patterns, including summer and winter temperatures that impact demand; • the availability, proximity and capacity of transportation facilities; • the level and effect of trading in commodity future markets, including trading by commodity price speculators and others; • the nature and extent of governmental regulation (including environmental regulation) and taxation; • demand for and availability of alternative, competing sources of energy; and • technological advances affecting energy exploration, production and consumption. 10 Table of Contents There are operating hazards inherent in the oil and natural gas industry that could expose us to substantial liabilities. Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the oil and gas industry that may lead to property damage, personal injury, death or the discharge of hazardous materials into the environment. Many of these events are outside of our control. Typically, we provide products and services at a well site where our personnel and equipment are located together with personnel and equipment of our customer and other service providers. From time to time, personnel are injured or equipment or property is damaged or destroyed as a result of accidents, failed equipment, faulty products or services, failure of safety measures, uncontained formation pressures or other dangers inherent in oil and gas exploration, development and production. Any of these events can be the result of human error. All of these risks expose us to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks and potentially substantial litigation claims for damages. With increasing frequency, our products and services are deployed in more challenging exploration, development and production environments. From time to time, customers and third parties may seek to hold us accountable for damages and costs incurred as a result of an accident, including pollution. Our insurance policies are subject to exclusions, limitations and other conditions, and may not protect us against liability for some types of events, including events involving a well blowout, or against losses from business interruption. Moreover, we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate or on terms that we deem commercially reasonable. Any damages caused by our services or products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or subject to substantial deductibles or retentions, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be fully indemnified against losses incurred due to catastrophic events for which we are not responsible. As is customary in our industry, our contracts generally provide that we will indemnify and hold harmless our customers from any claims arising from personal injury or death of our employees, damage to or loss of our equipment, and pollution emanating from our equipment and services. Similarly, our customers agree to indemnify and hold us harmless from any claims arising from personal injury or death of their employees, damage to or loss of their equipment, and pollution caused from their equipment or the well reservoir (including uncontained oil flow from a reservoir). Our indemnification arrangements may not protect us in every case. For example, from time to time we may enter into contracts with less favorable indemnities or perform work without a contract that protects us. In addition, our indemnification rights may not fully protect us if the customer is insolvent or becomes bankrupt, does not maintain adequate insurance or otherwise does not possess sufficient resources to indemnify us. In addition, our indemnification rights may be held unenforceable in some jurisdictions. Our business is subject to risks from lower capital spending by our customers. Our business is directly affected by changes in capital expenditures by our customers, and reductions in their capital spending could reduce demand for our services and products. The rate of economic growth in the U.S. and worldwide has been lower than experienced since before the 2008 economic downturn. Prolonged periods of little or no economic growth will likely decrease demand for oil and gas and increase pricing pressure for our services and products. In addition, if a significant number of our customers experience a prolonged business decline or disruptions, we may incur increased exposure to credit risk and bad debts. Increased regulation of or limiting or banning hydraulic fracturing could reduce or eliminate demand for our pressure pumping services. Our hydraulic fracturing services are subject to a range of applicable federal, state and local laws. Our hydraulic fracturing services are designed and operated to minimize the risk, if any, of subsurface migration of hydraulic fracturing fluids and spillage or mishandling of hydraulic fracturing fluids. However, a proven case of subsurface 11 Table of Contents migration of hydraulic fracturing fluids or a case of spillage or mishandling of hydraulic fracturing fluids during these activities could potentially subject us to civil and/or criminal liability and the possibility of substantial costs, including environmental remediation, depending on the circumstances of the underground migration, spillage, or mishandling, the nature and scope of the underground migration, spillage, or mishandling, and the applicable laws and regulations. The practice of hydraulically fracturing formations to stimulate the production of natural gas and oil has come under increased scrutiny from federal and state governmental authorities. Various federal legislative and regulatory initiatives have been undertaken which could result in additional requirements or restrictions being imposed on hydraulic fracturing operations. For example, the U.S. Department of Interior has issued proposed regulations that would apply to hydraulic fracturing wells subject to federal oil and gas leases that would impose requirements to disclose chemicals used in the fracturing process as well as certain prior approvals to conduct hydraulic fracturing . In addition, certain states have adopted laws and regulations requiring additional disclosure regarding chemicals used in the fracturing process, but with protections for proprietary information, and other states are evaluating the adoption of legislation or regulations governing hydraulic fracturing. Possible legislation or regulation could impose further disclosure obligations or other requirements, such as restrictions on use the use of certain chemicals or prohibitions on hydraulic fracturing in certain areas, which could affect our operations. The adoption of any future federal, state or local laws or implementing regulations could make it more difficult to complete oil and gas wells, adversely affecting our hydraulic fracturing business. Adverse and unusual weather conditions may affect our operations. Our operations may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. Severe weather, such as hurricanes, high winds and seas, blizzards and extreme temperatures may cause evacuation of personnel, curtailment of services and suspension of operations, inability to deliver materials to jobsites in accordance with contract schedules, loss of or damage to equipment and facilities and reduced productivity. In addition, variations from normal weather patterns can have a significant impact on demand for oil and gas, thereby reducing demand for our services and equipment. Any capital financing that may be necessary may not be available at economic rates. Turmoil in the credit and financial markets could adversely affect financial institutions, inhibit lending and limit our access to funding through borrowings under our credit facility or newly created facilities in the public or private market on terms we believe to be reasonable. If future financing is not available to us when required, as a result of limited access to the credit markets or otherwise, or is not available to us on acceptable terms, we may be unable take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. Failure to retain key employees and skilled workers could adversely affect us. Our performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain certain key employees and skilled technical personnel. Our ability to continue to expand the scope of our services and products depends in part on our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or the inability to employ or retain skilled technical personnel could adversely affect our operating results. The demand for skilled personnel is high and the supply is limited. We have experienced increases in labor costs in recent years and may continue to do so in the future. 12 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully integrate Complete’s operations into our legacy operations. In connection with the Complete acquisition, we have been, and will continue to devote significant management attention and company-wide resources to integrating the business practices and operations of Complete with our legacy business practices and operations. We may encounter potential difficulties in the integration process, including the following: • the failure to retain key employees of either of our legacy business or Complete’s business; • the inability to successfully combine Complete’s business with our legacy business in a manner that permits us to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Complete acquisition in the time frame currently anticipated or at all; • the complexities associated with managing the combined businesses out of a substantial number of different locations and integrating personnel from both us and Complete, while at the same time attempting to provide consistent, high quality services and equipment under a unified culture; • potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses associated with the Complete acquisition; and • performance shortfalls as a result of the diversion of management’s attention caused by integrating Complete’s business with our legacy business. For all these reasons, the integration process could result in the distraction of our management, the disruption of our ongoing business or inconsistencies in our services, equipment, standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, vendors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Complete acquisition, or could otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. Our international operations and revenue exposes us to additional political, economic and other uncertainties. In 2012, we conducted business in approximately 70 countries, and we intend to grow further. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in any business operating in foreign countries, including, but not limited to, the following: • political, social and economic instability; • potential expropriation, seizure or nationalization of assets; • inflation; • deprivation of contract rights; • increased operating costs; • inability to collect receivables; • civil unrest and protests, strikes, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict; • import-export quotas; • confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; • currency exchange controls; • currency exchange rate fluctuations, devaluations and conversion restrictions; • restrictions on the repatriation of funds; and • other forms of government regulation which are subject to change and are beyond our control. 13 Table of Contents Due to the unsettled political conditions in many oil producing countries, our operations, revenue and profitability are subject to the adverse consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest, strikes, currency controls and governmental actions. These and the other risks outlined above could cause us to curtail or terminate operations, result in the loss of personnel or assets, disrupt financial and commercial markets and generate greater political and economic instability in some of the geographic areas in which we operate. Areas where we operate that have significant risk include the Middle East, Colombia, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Nigeria and Mexico. Control of oil and natural gas reserves by state-owned oil companies may impact the demand for our services. In many countries around the world where we do business, all or a significant portion of the decision making regarding procuring our services and products is controlled by state-owned oil companies. State-owned oil companies may require their contractors to meet local content requirements or other local standards, such as joint ventures, that could be difficult or undesirable for the Company to meet. The failure to meet the local content requirements and other local standards may adversely impact the Company’s operations in those countries. In addition, our ability to work with state-owned oil companies is subject to our ability to negotiate and agree upon acceptable contract terms. In addition, many state-owned oil companies may require integrated contracts or turnkey contracts that could require the Company to provide services outside its core business. Providing services on an integrated or turnkey basis generally requires the Company to assume additional risks. Changes in tax laws or tax rates, adverse positions taken by taxing authorities and tax audits could impact our operating results. We have operations in numerous foreign countries. As a result, we are subject to the jurisdiction of a significant number of taxing authorities. Changes in tax laws or tax rates, the resolution of tax assessments or audits by various tax authorities could impact our operating results. In addition, we may periodically restructure our legal entity organization. If taxing authorities were to disagree with our tax positions in connection with any such restructurings, our effective tax rate could be impacted. The final determination of our income tax liabilities involves the interpretation of local tax laws, tax treaties and related authorities in each taxing jurisdiction, as well as the significant use of estimates and assumptions regarding future operations and results and the timing of income and expenses. We may be audited and receive tax assessments from taxing authorities that may ultimately result in assessment of additional taxes that are ultimately resolved with the authorities or through the courts. We believe these assessments may occasionally be based on erroneous and even arbitrary interpretations of local tax law. Resolution of any tax matter involves uncertainties and there are no assurances that the outcomes will be favorable. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations which could reduce our business opportunities and revenue, and increase our costs and liabilities. Our business is significantly affected by a wide range of laws and regulations in the areas in which we operate, and increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. Generally, environmental laws have in recent years become more stringent and have sought to impose greater liability on a larger number of potentially responsible parties. The scope of regulation of our industry and services and products may increase further following the April 2010 Macondo accident in the Gulf of Mexico, including possible increases in liabilities or funding requirements imposed by governmental agencies. We incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. The technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex and expensive to implement. For instance, a variety of regulatory developments, proposals or requirements have been introduced in the domestic and international regions that are focused on restricting the emission of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases, which could impose restrictions in greenhouse gas emissions. Also, the U.S. 14 Table of Contents Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has undertaken efforts to collect information regarding greenhouse emissions, as well as adopting and implementing certain regulations to restrict emissions. The EPA has adopted rules requiring the reporting of certain onshore and offshore oil and gas production facilities and by certain large emissions sources. It is not currently feasible to predict whether, or which of, the current greenhouse gas emission proposals will be adopted, or what other actions may be taken, including subsequent EPA activity. The potential passage of climate change regulation may curtail production and demand for fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for our products and services, which may in turn adversely affect future results of operations. Further, environmental laws may provide for “strict liability” for remediation costs, damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. Strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. Some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. For example, our well service and fluids businesses routinely involve the handling of significant amounts of waste materials, some of which are classified as hazardous substances. We also store, transport and use radioactive and explosive materials in certain of our operations. In addition, many of our current and former facilities are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. Accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the containment and disposal of hazardous substances, oilfield waste and other waste materials, the use of radioactive materials, the use of underground injection wells, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. In addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. We believe we are currently in substantial compliance with environmental laws and regulations. We are affected by global economic factors and political events. Our financial results depend on demand for our services and products in the U.S. and the foreign countries in which we operate. Declining economic conditions, or negative perceptions about economic conditions, could result in a substantial decrease in demand for our services and products. World political events could also result in further U.S. military actions, terrorist attacks and related unrest. Military action by the U. S. or other nations could escalate and further acts of terrorism may occur in the U.S. or elsewhere. Such acts of terrorism could be directed against us. Such developments have caused instability in the world’s financial and insurance markets in the past. In addition, these developments could lead to increased volatility in prices for oil and gas and could affect the markets for our products and services. Insurance premiums could also increase and coverages may be unavailable. Uncertain economic conditions and instability make it particularly difficult for us to forecast demand trends. The timing and extent of any changes to currently prevailing market conditions is uncertain, and may affect demand for many of our services and products. Consequently, we may not be able to accurately predict future economic conditions or the effect of such conditions on demand for our services and products and resulting results of operations or financial condition. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or divestitures. We continually seek opportunities to increase efficiency and value through various transactions, including purchases or sales of assets or businesses. These transactions are intended to result in the offering of new services or products, the generation of income or cash, the creation of efficiencies or the reduction of risk. Whether we realize the anticipated benefits from an acquisition or any other transactions depends, in part, upon our ability to integrate the operations of the acquired business, the performance of the underlying product and service portfolio, and the performance of the management team and other personnel of the acquired operations. Accordingly, our financial results could be adversely affected from unanticipated performance issues, legacy 15 Table of Contents liabilities, transaction-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles, charges for impairment of long-term assets, credit guarantees, partner performance and indemnifications. While we believe that we have established appropriate and adequate procedures and processes to mitigate these risks, there is no assurance that these transactions will be successful. We also may make strategic divestitures from time to time. These transactions may result in continued financial involvement in the divested businesses, such as guarantees or other financial arrangements, following the transaction. Nonperformance by those divested businesses could affect our future financial results through additional payment obligations, higher costs or asset write-downs. Business growth could outpace the capabilities of our infrastructure and workforce. We cannot be certain that our infrastructure and workforce will be adequate to support our operations as we expand. Future growth also could impose significant additional demands on our resources, resulting in additional responsibilities of our senior management, including the need to recruit and integrate new senior level managers, executives and operating personnel. We cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain such additional personnel. To the extent that we are unable to manage our growth effectively, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, we may not be able to expand our operations or execute our business plan. We may be exposed to unforeseen costs in some of our projects. Some of our decommissioning business may be conducted under fixed-price or “turnkey” contracts. Under fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform a defined scope of work for a fixed price. Prices for these contracts are established based largely upon estimates and assumptions relating to project scope and specifications, personnel and material needs. These estimates and assumptions may prove inaccurate or conditions may change due to factors out of our control resulting in cost overruns, which we may be required to absorb and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Estimates of our oil and gas reserves and potential liabilities relating to our oil and gas properties may be incorrect. From time to time, we may engage in projects that include the acquisition of oil and gas properties. Acquisitions of these properties require an assessment of a number of factors beyond our control, including estimates of recoverable reserves, future oil and gas prices, operating costs and potential environmental and plugging and abandonment liabilities. These assessments are complex and inherently imprecise, and, with respect to estimates of oil and gas reserves, require significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. In addition, since these properties are typically mature and could be in shallow water, our facilities and operations may be more susceptible to hurricane damage, equipment failure or mechanical problems. In connection with these assessments, we perform due diligence reviews that we believe are generally consistent with industry practices. However, our reviews may not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, our reviews may not permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. We may not always discover structural, subsurface, environmental or other problems that may exist or arise. Actual future production, cash flows, development expenditures, operating and abandonment expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those estimated by us and any significant variance in these assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantity and value of our proved reserves. Therefore, the risk exists we may overestimate the value of economically recoverable reserves and/or underestimate the cost of plugging wells and abandoning production facilities. If costs of abandonment are materially greater or actual reserves are materially lower than our estimates, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 