ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business because these factors currently have or may in the future have a significant impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward- looking statements contained in this Form 10-K as a result of the risk factors discussed below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. A significant portion of our annual revenue is derived from a single customer. During the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, one UPG customer, Brinks, accounted for 48%, 56% and 51% of total revenues. The loss of this significant customer would materially decrease the Company's total revenue and would consequently have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and our financial condition. Since, as a result of its IPO, UPG's revenues will no longer be consolidated with ours after December 31, 2006, our revenues will be significantly reduced but we will include in our results of operations our 40 percent share of UPG's results of operations. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our suppliers. A significant portion of UPG's inventory purchases are from two suppliers representing approximately 42% and 28% for the year ended December 31, 2006, and approximately 44% and 22% for the similar period in 2005. UPG purchased approximately 62% and 68% for year ending December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively of its product through domestic sources with the remainder purchased from international sources, predominantly in the Pacific Rim and mainland China. While UPG believes it can replace its suppliers in the Pacific Rim and mainland China, the loss of these suppliers may result in cost increases that would decrease UPG's gross profit margins, and therefore have an adverse effect on UPG's results of operations. The loss of its domestic supplier would affect UPG's business with Brinks since a majority of Brinks inventory is purchased from this supplier. AlphaNet depends largely on its ability to keep pace with changing technologies. If we are unable to respond quickly and cost-effectively to changing communications technologies and devices and changes in customer tastes and preferences, our business will be harmed. The emerging nature of communications technologies requires us to continually update our AlphaNet products and service offerings, particularly in response to competitive offerings and to make sure they are compatible with and take advantage of new technologies and changes in consumer tastes and preferences. Our inability or the inability of our suppliers to respond quickly and cost-effectively to changing communications technologies and devices and changes in customer tastes and preferences, could make our existing service offerings less competitive and may cause us to lose market share. We cannot be certain that we will successfully develop, acquire and market new products and services that respond to competitive and technological developments and changing customer needs. Most of our competitors have significantly greater resources than we do. 23 We face strong competition from existing competitors, many of whom are substantially larger than us. New competitors or competitors' price reductions or increased spending on marketing and product development, as well as any increases in the price of raw materials that our suppliers pass on would have a negative impact on our financial condition and our competitive position, as larger competitors will be in a better position to bear these costs and price increases. Our long-term growth strategy assumes that we make suitable acquisitions. If we are unable to address the risks associated with these acquisitions our business could be harmed. Our long-term growth strategy includes identifying and, from time to time, acquiring suitable candidates on acceptable terms. In particular, we intend to acquire businesses that provide products and services that expand or complement our existing businesses and expand our geographic reach. In pursuing acquisition opportunities, we may compete with other companies having similar growth and investment strategies. Competition for these acquisition targets could also result in increased acquisition costs and a diminished pool of businesses, technologies, services or products available for acquisition. Our long-term growth strategy could be impeded if we fail to identify and acquire promising candidates on terms acceptable to us. Assimilating acquired businesses involves a number of other risks, including, but not limited to: o disrupting our business; o incurring additional expense associated with a write-off of all or a portion of the related goodwill and other intangible assets due to changes in market conditions or the economy in the markets in which we compete or because acquisitions are not providing the benefits expected; o incurring unanticipated costs or unknown liabilities; o managing more geographically-dispersed operations; o diverting management's resources from other business concerns; o retaining the employees of the acquired businesses; o maintaining existing customer relationships of acquired companies; o assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; and o maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. For all these reasons, our pursuit of an overall acquisition or any individual acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to successfully address any of these risks, our business could be harmed. Rapid growth in our business could strain our managerial, operational, financial, accounting and information systems, customer service staff and office resources. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business may be negatively impacted. In order to achieve our growth strategy, we will need to expand all aspects of our business, including our computer systems and related infrastructure, customer service capabilities and sales and marketing efforts. We cannot assure you that our infrastructure, technical staff and technical resources will adequately accommodate or facilitate our expanded operations. To be successful, we will need to continually improve our financial and managerial controls, billing systems, reporting systems and procedures, and we will also need to 24 continue to expand, train and manage our workforce. In addition, as we offer new products and services, we will need to increase the size and expand the training of our customer service staff to ensure that they can adequately respond to customer inquiries. If we fail to adequately train our customer service staff and provide staffing sufficient to support our new products and services, we may lose customers. If we are unable to attract and retain highly qualified management and technical personnel, our business may be harmed. Our success depends in large part on the contributions of our senior management team, technology personnel and other key employees and on our ability to attract, integrate, train, retain and motivate these individuals and additional highly skilled technical and sales and marketing personnel. We face intense competition in hiring and retaining quality management personnel. Many of these companies have greater financial resources than we do to attract and retain qualified personnel. Three key employees of UPG that signed employment agreements with UPG in December, 2006 are Randy Hardin, President and Chief Executive Officer, Ian Edmonds, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and Mimi Tan, Senior Vice President. The agreements expire December 31, 2009. If we are unable to retain our key employees or attract, integrate, train and retain other highly qualified employees in the future, when necessary, our business may be negatively impacted. There is a lack of an active public market for our common stock and the trading price of our common stock is subject to volatility. There is a lack of an active public market for our common stock, and the trading price of our common stock is subject to volatility. The quotation of shares of our common stock on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board began in April 1999. There can be no assurances, however, that a market will develop or continue for our common stock. Our common stock may be thinly traded, if traded at all, even if we achieve full operation and generate significant revenue and is likely to experience significant price fluctuations. In addition, our stock may be defined as a "penny stock" under Rule 3a51-1 adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In general, a "penny stock" includes securities of companies which are not listed on the principal stock exchanges or the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System, or Nasdaq, National Market System and have a bid price in the market of less than $5.00; and companies with net tangible assets of less than $2,000,000 ($5,000,000 if the issuer has been in continuous operation for less than three years), or which have recorded revenues of less than $6,000,000 in the last three years. "Penny stocks" are subject to Rule 15g-9, which imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell such securities to persons other than established customers and "accredited investors" (generally, individuals with net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual incomes exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouses, or individuals who are officers or directors of the issuer of the securities). For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to sale. Consequently, this Rule may adversely affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock, and therefore, may adversely affect the ability of our stockholders to sell common stock in the public market. The trading price of our common stock is 25 likely to be subject to wide fluctuation. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock may include: o variations in our financial results; o announcements of innovations, new solutions, strategic alliances or significant agreement by us or by our competitors; o recruitment or departure of key personnel; o changes in estimates of our financial results or changes in the recommendations of any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock; o market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole; and o sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that substantial amounts of our common stock will be sold, by our existing stockholders in the public market. 