Item 1A. Risk Factors Except for historical matters, the matters discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Act”). We desire to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Act and include this statement for the express purpose of availing ourselves of the protection of the safe harbor with respect to all forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual operating results may differ from those indicated by forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by us from time to time because of a number of factors including the potential fluctuations in quarterly results, timing and acceptance of new product introductions by us and our competitors, the dependence on our time and labor product line, the ability to attract and retain sufficient technical personnel, the protection of our intellectual property and the potential infringement on our intellectual property rights, competitive pricing pressure, and the dependence on alternate distribution channels and on key vendors, as further described below. Potential Fluctuations in Results. Our operating results, including revenue growth, sources of revenue, effective tax rate and liquidity, may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including general economic conditions and related effects on workforce size, the purchasing patterns of our customers, the diversion of public companies’ resources to address compliance with regulatory requirements on internal controls, the mix of products and services sold, the ability to effectively integrate acquired businesses into our operations, the timing of the introduction of new products and product enhancements by us and our competitors, the strategy employed by us in the human resources and payroll market, market acceptance of new products and competitive pricing pressure. We historically have realized a relatively larger percentage of our annual revenues and profits in the third and fourth quarters and a relatively smaller percentage in the first and second quarters of each fiscal year, although there can be no assurance that this pattern will continue. In addition, substantially all of our product revenue and profits in each quarter result from orders received in that quarter. If near-term demand for our products weakens or if significant anticipated sales in any quarter do not close when expected, our revenues for that quarter will be adversely affected. We believe that our operating results for any one period are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Integration of Acquired Businesses. As part of our overall growth strategy, we have acquired from time to time resellers of our products and, in certain instances, complementary business lines. Going forward we anticipate continuing this growth strategy, particularly related to strategic acquisitions of complementary business lines and technologies. This could potentially include material transactions, some with foreign geographies, which are more complex and may present greater challenges in achieving the intended strategic and 11 financial goals. Even if we are successful in identifying and acquiring businesses strategic to us, these acquisition activities involve a number of risks, including: • We may find the acquired business does not further our business strategy, that we overpaid for the company or the economic assumptions underlying our acquisition decision have changed or were not accurate; • Difficulties integrating the acquired companies’ products and services and customer base with our existing product and service offerings; • Difficulties integrating the operations, technology and personnel of the acquired company, or retaining the key personnel of the acquired company critical to its continued operation and success; • Disruption of our ongoing business and diversion of management’s attention by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; • Difficulties maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations and businesses; • Litigation by terminated employees or third parties; and • Problems or liabilities associated with product quality, technology and legal contingencies relating to the acquired business or technology, such as intellectual property matters. These and other factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly in the case of material acquisitions, foreign acquisitions or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. Acquisitions may also have a negative effect on our earnings per share. If we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions or investments in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash to consummate such acquisition or investment. To the extent we issue shares of our capital stock or other rights to purchase our capital stock, including options and warrants, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. In addition, acquisitions and investments may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, such as acquired in-process research and development costs, and restructuring charges. They may also result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges. New Information Technology System Implementation. We completed the first and second phases of the implementation of our new information technology system in April 2005 and November 2006, respectively, and therefore have begun incurring certain recurring costs that were not incurred previously, including amortization and depreciation related costs. During the implementation of and transition to our new information technology systems we may experience some short-term erosion to our productivity resulting from duplicate data entry, troubleshooting and mitigation of any issues related to the rollout of these systems, as well as increased costs related to the completion of the implementation, which may have an impact on our cash flows. Competition. The human capital management market, which includes time and labor, scheduling, talent management, human resources, payroll, absence management, labor activity tracking, data collection, self-service and workforce analytics solutions are highly competitive. Technological changes such as those allowing for increased use of the Internet have resulted in new entrants into the market. Increased competition could adversely affect our operating results through price reductions or loss of market share. With our efforts to expand our workforce management offering with the introduction of our human resources and payroll product suite and the expansion of our scheduling product offerings, as well as our expansion into the talent management market, we will continue to face strong competition. Many of these competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their human resources and payroll products. Many of our human resources and payroll competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and sales and marketing resources than us, as well as more experience in delivering human resources and payroll solutions. Although we believe our organization has core competencies that position us strongly in 12 the marketplace, maintaining our technological and other advantages over competitors will require continued investment in research and development as well as marketing and sales programs. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to make such investments or be able to achieve the technological advances necessary to maintain our competitive advantages. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the human resources and payroll as well as talent management markets, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Dependence on Time and Labor Product Line. To date, the substantial majority of our revenues have been attributable to sales of time and labor systems and related services. Although we have introduced products for talent management, scheduling solutions and the licensed human resources and payroll market, we expect that our dependence on the time and labor product line for revenues will continue for the foreseeable future. Competitive pressures or other factors could cause our time and labor products to lose market acceptance or experience significant price erosion, adversely affecting the results of our operations. Product Development and Technological Change. Continual change and improvement in computer software and hardware technology characterize the markets for human capital management systems. Our future success will depend largely on our ability to enhance the capabilities and increase the performance of our existing products and to develop new products and interfaces to third-party products on a timely basis to meet the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. Although we are continually seeking to further enhance our offerings and to develop new products and interfaces, there can be no assurance that these efforts will succeed, or that, if successful, such product enhancements or new products will achieve widespread market acceptance, or that our competitors will not develop and market products that are superior to our products or achieve greater market acceptance. Dependence on Alternate Distribution Channels. We market and sell our products through our direct sales organization, independent resellers and ADP under an original equipment manufacturer agreement. In fiscal 2006, approximately 7% of our revenue was generated through sales to resellers and ADP. A reduction in the sales efforts of either our major resellers or ADP, or termination or changes in their relationships with us, could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. Attracting and Retaining Sufficient Technical Personnel for Product Development, Support and Sales. We have encountered intense competition for experienced technical personnel for product development, technical support and sales and expect such competition to continue in the future. Any inability to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified technical personnel could adversely affect our ability to produce, support and sell products in a timely manner. Stock option accounting rules may have a significant adverse affect on our operating results. We have a history of using broad-based employee stock option programs to hire, incentivize and retain our workforce in a competitive marketplace. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS 123R, which requires all companies to measure compensation cost for all share-based payments, including employee stock options, at fair value. We adopted FAS 123R on October 1, 2005, the beginning of our 2006 fiscal year. The modified prospective method was applied in adopting FAS 123R and, accordingly, periods prior to adoption have not been restated. The actual impact on future periods will depend on a number of factors, including our stock price and the level of future grants and awards made from our stock-based compensation plans. The implementation of FAS 123R has had no adverse effect on our balance sheet or total cash flows, but it does impact cash flows from operations, cost of sales, gross profit, operating expenses, net income and earnings per share. Because periods prior to adoption have not been restated, comparability between periods has been affected. Additionally, estimates of and assumptions about forfeiture rates, volatility and interest rates are used to calculate stock-based compensation. A significant change in these estimates could materially affect our operating results. Protection of Intellectual Property. We have developed, and through our acquisitions of businesses and software, acquired, proprietary technology and intellectual property rights. Our success is dependent upon our 13 ability to further develop and protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights. We seek to protect products, software, documentation and other written materials primarily through a combination of trade secret, patent, trademark and copyright laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions. While we have attempted to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, it is unknown whether we have been or will be successful in doing so. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that is regarded as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult. While we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software products exists, software piracy can be expected to be a persistent problem, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We can offer no assurance that we can adequately protect our proprietary rights or that our competitors will not reverse engineer or independently develop similar technology. Infringement of Intellectual Property Rights. We cannot provide assurance that others will not claim that our developed or acquired intellectual property rights infringe on their intellectual property rights or that we do not in fact infringe on those intellectual property rights. Any litigation regarding intellectual property rights could be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from business operations. The complexity of the technology involved in our products and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements, and in this event, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on acceptable terms, if at all. We may also be subject to significant damages or an injunction against the use of our products. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could cause immediate and substantial damage to our business and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 