Item 1A Risk Factors Risks OrthoLogic may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and our reports to stockholders. The safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 protects companies from liability for their forward looking statements if they comply with the requirements of that Act. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to that safe harbor. These forward-looking statements relate to future events or to our future financial performance, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by the use of words such as “may,” “could,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “seek,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” “continue,” or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements since they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which are, in some cases, beyond our control and which could materially affect actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations, which we describe in more detail in this section titled “Risks,” include, but are not limited to: · unfavorable results of our product candidate development efforts; · unfavorable results of our pre-clinical or clinical testing; · delays in obtaining, or failure to obtain FDA approvals; · increased regulation by the FDA and other agencies; · the introduction of competitive products; · impairment of license, patent or other proprietary rights; · failure to achieve market acceptance of our products; · the impact of present and future collaborative or partnering agreements or the lack thereof; and · failure to successfully implement our drug development strategy. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results may vary significantly from what we projected. Any forward-looking statement you read in this Annual Report on Form 10-K reflects our current views with respect to future events and is subject to these and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to our operations, results of operations, business strategy and liquidity. We assume no obligation to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements for any reason, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. 13 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We are a biopharmaceutical company with no revenue generating operations and high investment costs. We expect to incur losses for a number of years as we expand our research and development projects. There is no assurance that our current level of funds will be sufficient to support all research expenses to achieve commercialization of any of our product candidates. On November 26, 2003, we sold all of our revenue generating operations. We are now focused on developing and testing the product candidates in AZX100 and our Chrysalin Product Platform and have allocated most of our resources to bringing these product candidates to the market, either through clinical trials or partnering efforts. We may invest in other peptide or small molecule-based therapeutics in the future, but there can be no assurance that opportunities of this nature will occur at acceptable terms, conditions or timing. We currently have no pharmaceutical products being sold or ready for sale and do not expect to be able to introduce any pharmaceutical products for at least several years. As a result of our significant research and development, clinical development, regulatory compliance and general and administrative expenses and the lack of any products to generate revenue, we expect to incur losses for at least the next several years and expect that our losses will increase if we expand our research and development activities and incur significant expenses for clinical trials. Our cash reserves are the primary source of our working capital. There can be no assurance that our cash resources will be sufficient to cover our future operating requirements, or should there be a need, other sources of cash will be available, or if available, at acceptable terms. We may not receive any revenue from our product candidates until we receive regulatory approval and begin commercialization of our product candidates. We cannot predict when that will occur or if it will occur. We caution that our future cash expenditure levels are difficult to forecast because the forecast is based on assumptions about the number of research projects we pursue, the pace at which we pursue them, the quality of the data collected and the requests of the FDA to expand, narrow or conduct additional clinical trials and analyze data. Changes in any of these assumptions can change significantly our estimated cash expenditure levels. Our product candidates have reached various stages of development but may not be successfully developed or commercialized. If we fail to commercialize our product candidates, we will not be able to generate revenue. We currently do not sell any products. Our product candidates have reached the following stages of development: Chrysalin: · Acceleration of Fracture Repair Phase 3 / Phase 2b human clinical trials · Diabetic Foot Ulcer Healing Phase 1/2 human clinical trials · Spine Fusion Phase 1/2 human clinical trials · Cartilage Defect Repair Late stage pre-clinical trials · Tendon Repair Early stage pre-clinical trials · Cardiovascular Repair Pre-clinical trials · Dental Bone Repair Pre-clinical trials · Vascular Endothelial Dysfunction Early stage pre-clinical testing AZX100: · Scarring IND filed in 2007 14 Table of Contents We are subject to the risk that: · the FDA finds some or all of our product candidates ineffective or unsafe; · we do not receive necessary regulatory approvals; · we are unable to get some or all of our product candidates to market in a timely manner; · we are not able to produce our product candidates in commercial quantities at reasonable costs; · our products undergo post-market evaluations resulting in marketing restrictions or withdrawal · of our products; or · the patients, insurance and/or physician community does not accept our products. In addition, our product development programs may be curtailed, redirected or eliminated at any time for many reasons, including: · adverse or ambiguous results; · undesirable side effects which delay or extend the trials; · inability to locate, recruit, qualify and retain a sufficient number of patients for our trials; · regulatory delays or other regulatory actions; · difficulties in obtaining sufficient quantities of the particular product candidate or any other · components needed for our pre-clinical testing or clinical trials; · change in the focus of our development efforts; and · re-evaluation of our clinical development strategy. We cannot predict whether we will successfully develop and commercialize any of our product candidates. If we fail to do so, we will not be able to generate revenue. Certain results from our Phase 3 and Phase 2b clinical trials showed that the differences in the primary endpoint analyses between our lead compound, Chrysalin, and the placebo were not statistically significant, which will make it more difficult to obtain FDA approval and result in a substantial delay in our ability to generate revenue. On March 15, 2006, we reported results of our Phase 3 fracture repair human clinical trial. For the primary endpoint, time to removal of immobilization, no statistically significant difference was observed between placebo and a single injection of Chrysalin. Consistent with the Phase 1/2 human clinical trial results, a statistically significant difference for a secondary endpoint, radiographic evidence of radial cortical bridging, was achieved. However, no statistically significant difference was noted in the study’s other secondary endpoints. On March 15, 2006, we temporarily halted our Phase 2b fracture repair dosing clinical trial to perform an interim analysis of the data of the subjects enrolled to that date. We announced on February 16, 2007 findings of a post-hoc subgroup analysis of data from the Phase 3 clinical trial, which were presented at the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons Annual Meeting. This subgroup analysis was based on bone mineral density, a pre-specified stratification. Within the subset of female osteopenic subjects, treatment with 10 µg Chrysalin demonstrated a statistically significant benefit compared to placebo in the primary efficacy endpoint of time to removal of immobilization. Secondary endpoints including time to clinical evaluation of healing, time to radial cortical bridging and time to overall radiographic healing also showed a significant effect of Chrysalin treatment. On August 29, 2006, we reported the results of interim analysis of data from our Phase 2b dose-ranging clinical trial of the novel synthetic peptide Chrysalin® (TP508) in unstable, displaced distal radius (wrist) fractures and termination of the Phase 2b study. In the dataset of 240 subjects as a group that were evaluable in the Phase 2b interim analysis, treatment with Chrysalin did not demonstrate benefit compared to placebo in the primary efficacy endpoint of time to removal of immobilization. Individual findings of efficacy in secondary endpoints, including radiographic healing, were not seen in this interim analysis and no dose response relationship was observed. The trial met the pre-specified safety endpoint by demonstrating no significant difference in the incidence of adverse events between the Chrysalin and placebo groups. 15 Table of Contents We have implemented a strategic shift in our development approach to our Chrysalin Product Platform. We currently intend to pursue development partnering or licensing opportunities for our Chrysalin-based product candidates, a change from our previous development history of independently conducting human clinical trials necessary to advance our Chrysalin-based product candidates to market. The results of our Phase 3 and 2b clinical trials increases the risk that we will not be successful and there will be a substantial delay in obtaining FDA approval; may lead to the termination of development efforts for the Chrysalin fracture repair or other Chrysalin-based product candidates; will result in a delay in our ability to generate revenue; will change the amount of revenue we may generate; and could have a material adverse effect on our business going forward. Our product candidates are all based on the same two chemical peptides, Chrysalin and AZX100. If one of our Chrysalin or AZX100 product candidates reveals safety or fundamental efficacy issues in clinical trials, it could impact the development path for our other current product candidates for that peptide. Since we are developing the product candidates in the Chrysalin Product Platform in parallel, we expect to learn from the results of each trial and apply some of our findings to the development of the other product candidates in the platform. The fact that the results from the Phase 3 and Phase 2b fracture repair human clinical trials showed no statistical significance between Chrysalin and the placebo for the primary endpoint in the study will likely impact the development path or future development of the other product candidates in the platform. In addition, if we find that one of our Chrysalin product candidates is unsafe in the future, it could impact the development of our other product candidates in clinical trials. AZX100 is currently in pre-clinical testing and the first human clinical trial for dermal scarring is planned to start in the first quarter of 2008. Should the results of ongoing pre-clinical studies or human clinical trials show negative safety or efficacy data, it may impact the development of our AZX100 product candidates. If we cannot protect the Chrysalin patents, the AZX100 patents, or our intellectual property generally, our ability to develop and commercialize our products will be severely limited. Our success will depend in part on our ability to maintain and enforce patent protection for Chrysalin and AZX100 and each product resulting from Chrysalin or AZX100. Without patent protection, other companies could offer substantially identical products for sale without incurring the sizable discovery, development and licensing costs that we have incurred. Our ability to recover these expenditures and realize profits upon the sale of products would then be diminished. Certain key Chrysalin methods of use patents have expired and other patents will expire during the development period of our Chrysalin Product Platform. We believe our current patents covering formulations and specific indications are adequate to protect the value of the Chrysalin Product Platform. However, if our current patents are not adequate, the value of the Chrysalin Product Platform may be materially adversely impacted. Chrysalin and AZX100 are patented and there have been no successful challenges to the patents. However, if there were to be a challenge to these patents or any of the patents for product candidates, a court may determine that the patents are invalid or unenforceable. Even if the validity or enforceability of a patent is upheld by a court, a court may not prevent alleged infringement on the grounds that such activity is not covered by the patent claims. Any litigation, whether to enforce our rights to use our or our licensors’ patents or to defend against allegations that we infringe third party rights, will be costly, time consuming, and may distract management from other important tasks. 16 Table of Contents As is commonplace in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. To the extent our employees are involved in research areas which are similar to those areas in which they were involved at their former employers, we may be subject to claims that such employees and/or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed the alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against such claims, which could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management and which may have a material adverse effect on us, even if we are successful in defending such claims. We also rely in our business on trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information. We seek to protect this information, in part, through the use of confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, advisors and others. Nonetheless, we cannot assure that those agreements will provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information and prevent their unauthorized use or disclosure. The risk that other parties may breach confidentiality agreements or that our trade secrets become known or independently discovered by competitors, could adversely affect us by enabling our competitors, who may have greater experience and financial resources, to copy or use our trade secrets and other proprietary information in the advancement of their products, methods or technologies. Our success also depends on our ability to operate and commercialize products without infringing on the patents or proprietary rights of others. Third parties may claim that we or our licensors or suppliers are infringing their patents or are misappropriating their proprietary information. In the event of a successful claim against us or our licensors or suppliers for infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of others, we may be required to, among other things: · pay substantial damages; · stop using our technologies; · stop certain research and development efforts; · develop non-infringing products or methods; and · obtain one or more licenses from third parties. A license required under any such patents or proprietary rights may not be available to us, or may not be available on acceptable terms. If we or our licensors or suppliers are sued for infringement, we could encounter substantial delays in, or be prohibited from, developing, manufacturing and commercializing our product candidates. If we do not successfully develop AZX100 we may not recover the value of our investment. On February 27, 2006, we purchased certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of AzERx, Inc. for $390,000 in cash and the issuance of 1,355,000 shares of our common stock, with a market value of $7.7 million determined by the closing share price on the date the agreement was entered into. The transaction was completed (closed) on February 27, 2006. Under the terms of the transaction, we acquired an exclusive license for the core intellectual property relating to AZX100, a 24-amino acid synthetic peptide. The acquisition provides us with a new technology platform that diversifies the portfolio, and may provide more than one potential product. AZX100 is currently being investigated for medically important and commercially significant applications such as prevention of dermal scarring, pulmonary fibrosis, the treatment of asthma and vascular intimal hyperplasia. While we performed a reasonable level of due diligence on AZX100 and the rights acquired, and in our pre-clinical testing AZX100 has demonstrated a satisfactory safety profile, there can be no assurances that we will recover the costs of our investment from the future development of AZX100 or that commercially significant applications will be developed. 17 Table of Contents The loss of our key management and scientific personnel may hinder our ability to execute our business plan. As a small company our success depends on the continuing contributions of our management team and scientific personnel, and maintaining relationships with the network of medical and academic centers in the United States that conduct our clinical trials. The resignation or retirement of members of senior management or scientific personnel could materially adversely affect our business prospects. Reliance on Outside Suppliers and Consultants We rely on outside suppliers and consultants for the manufacture of Chrysalin and AZX100 and technical assistance in our research and development efforts. The inability of our suppliers to meet our production quality requirements in a timely manner, or the lack of availability of experienced consultants to assist in our research and development efforts, could have a material effect on our ability to perform research or clinical trials. We face an inherent risk of liability in the event that the use or misuse of our products results in personal injury or death. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials may expose us to product liability claims, which could result in financial losses. Our clinical liability insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover claims that may be made against us. In addition, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against losses. Any claims against us, regardless of their merit, could severely harm our financial condition, strain our management and other resources and adversely impact or eliminate the prospects for commercialization of the product which is the subject of any such claim. Risks of our Industry We are in a highly regulated field with high investment costs and high risks. Chrysalin has been in the human testing phase for three potential products and earlier pre-clinical testing phases for five other potential products. AZX100 is currently in pre-clinical testing with a Phase 1 dermal scarring study planned for early 2008. The FDA and comparable agencies in many foreign countries impose substantial limitations on the introduction of new pharmaceuticals through costly and time-consuming laboratory and clinical testing and other procedures. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Chrysalin and AZX100 are new drugs and are subject to the most stringent level of FDA review. Even after we have invested substantial funds in the development of our Chrysalin and AZX100 products and even if the results of our future clinical trials are favorable, there can be no guarantee that the FDA will grant approval of Chrysalin and/or AZX100 for the indicated uses or that it will do so in a timely manner. 18 Table of Contents If we successfully bring one or more products to market, there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully manufacture or market the products or that potential customers will buy them if, for example, a competitive product has greater efficacy or is deemed more cost effective. In addition, the market in which we will sell any such products is dominated by a number of large corporations that have vastly greater resources than we have, which may impact our ability to successfully market our products or maintain any technological advantage we might develop. We also would be subject to changes in regulations governing the manufacture and marketing of our products, which could increase our costs, reduce any competitive advantage we may have and/or adversely affect our marketing effectiveness. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to stringent regulation, and failure to obtain regulatory approval will prevent commercialization of our products. Our research, development, pre-clinical and clinical trial activities and the manufacture and marketing of any products that we may successfully develop are subject to an extensive regulatory approval process by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and abroad. The process of obtaining required regulatory approvals for drugs is lengthy, expensive and uncertain, and any such regulatory approvals may entail limitations on the indicated usage of a drug, which may reduce the drug’s market potential. In order to obtain FDA approval to commercialize any product candidate, an NDA must be submitted to the FDA demonstrating, among other things, that the product candidate is safe and effective for use in humans for each target indication. Our regulatory submissions may be delayed, or we may cancel plans to make submissions for product candidates for a number of reasons, including: · negative or ambiguous pre-clinical or clinical trial results; · changes in regulations or the adoption of new regulations; · unexpected technological developments; and · developments by our competitors that are more effective than our product candidates. Consequently, we cannot assure that we will make our submissions to the FDA in the timeframe that we have planned, or at all, or that our submissions will be approved by the FDA. Even if regulatory clearance is obtained, post-market evaluation of our products, if required, could result in restrictions on a product’s marketing or withdrawal of a product from the market as well as possible civil and criminal sanctions. Clinical trials are subject to oversight by institutional review boards and the FDA to ensure compliance with the FDA’s good clinical practice regulations, as well as other requirements for good clinical practices. We depend, in part, on third-party laboratories and medical institutions to conduct pre-clinical studies and clinical trials for our products and other third-party organizations to perform data collection and analysis, all of which must maintain both good laboratory and good clinical practices. If any such standards are not complied with in our clinical trials, the FDA may suspend or terminate such trial, which would severely delay our development and possibly end the development of a product candidate. We also currently and in the future will depend upon third party manufacturers of our products, which are and will be required to comply with the applicable FDA Good Manufacturing Practice regulations. We cannot be certain that our present or future manufacturers and suppliers will comply with these regulations. The failure to comply with these regulations may result in restrictions in the sale of, or withdrawal of the products from the market. Compliance by third parties with these standards and practices are outside of our direct control. 19 Table of Contents In addition, we are subject to regulation under state and federal laws, including requirements regarding occupational safety, laboratory practices, environmental protection and hazardous substance control, and may be subject to other local, state, federal and foreign regulation. We cannot predict the impact of such regulations on us, although they could impose significant restrictions on our business and require us to incur additional expenses to comply. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective than ours, or obtain marketing approval before we do, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. Competition in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries is intense and is expected to increase. Several biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic laboratories, universities and other research institutions, are involved in research and/or product development for indications targeted for use by either Chrysalin or AZX100. Many of our competitors have significantly greater research and development capabilities, experience in obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing, marketing, financial and managerial resources than we have. Our competitors may succeed in developing products that are more effective than the ones we have under development or that render our proposed products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. In addition, certain of such competitors may achieve product commercialization before we do. If any of our competitors develops a product that is more effective than one we are developing or plan to develop, or is able to obtain FDA approval for commercialization before we do, we may not be able to achieve significant market acceptance for certain products of ours, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. For a summary of the competitive conditions relating to indications which we are currently considering for Chrysalin and AZX100, see Part I, Item 1 in this Report titled “Competition”. Our product candidates may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community, including insurance companies and other third party payors. If our product candidates fail to achieve market acceptance, our ability to generate revenue will be limited. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for our products, market acceptance will depend on our ability to demonstrate to physicians and patients the benefits of our products in terms of safety, efficacy, and convenience, ease of administration and cost effectiveness. In addition, we believe market acceptance depends on the effectiveness of our marketing strategy, the pricing of our products and the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors. Physicians may not prescribe our products, and patients may determine, for any reason, that our product is not useful to them. Insurance companies and other third party payors may determine not to reimburse for the cost of the therapy. If any of our product candidates fails to achieve market acceptance, our ability to generate revenue will be limited. Healthcare reform and restrictions on reimbursements may limit our financial returns. Our ability to successfully commercialize our products may depend in part on the extent to which government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third party payors will reimburse consumers for the cost of these products. Third party payors are increasingly challenging both the need for, and the price of, novel therapeutic drugs and uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved therapeutics. Adequate third party reimbursement may not be available for our drug products to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investments in research and product development, which could restrict our ability to commercialize a particular drug candidate. 20 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock and Warrants Our stock price is volatile and fluctuates due to a variety of factors. Our stock price has varied significantly in the past (from a high of $9.32 to a low of $1.25 during the period of January 1, 2004 through December 31, 2007) and may vary in the future due to a number of factors, including: · announcement of the results of, or delays in, preclinical and clinical studies; · fluctuations in our operating results; · developments in litigation to which we or a competitor is subject; · announcements and timing of potential acquisitions, divestitures, capital raising activities or issuance of preferred stock; · announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; · FDA and other regulatory actions; · developments with respect to our or our competitors’ patents or proprietary rights; · public concern as to the safety of products developed by us or others; and · changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding us, other drug development companies or the pharmaceutical industry generally. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our stock. Additional authorized shares of our common stock available for issuance may have dilutive and other material effects on our stockholders. We are authorized to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2007, there were 41,758,065 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. However, the total number of shares of our common stock issued and outstanding does not include shares reserved in anticipation of the exercise of options, warrants or additional investment rights. As of December 31, 2007 we had stock options outstanding to purchase approximately 3,200,125 shares of our common stock, the exercise price of which range between $1.42 per share to $7.83 per share, warrants outstanding to purchase 46,706 shares of our common stock with an exercise price of $6.39, warrants outstanding to purchase 357,423 shares of our common stock with an exercise price of $1.91, and we have reserved shares of our common stock for issuance in connection with the potential exercise thereof. Additionally, at our Annual Stockholder Meeting on May 12, 2006, our stockholders approved the OrthoLogic 2005 Equity Incentive Plan, which provides an additional 2,000,000 shares of our common stock for incentive awards. To the extent additional options are granted and exercised or additional stock is issued, the holders of our common stock will experience further dilution. At December 31, 2007, 436,026 shares remain available to grant under the 2005 Equity Incentive Plan. In addition, in the event that any future financing or consideration for a future acquisition should be in the form of, be convertible into or exchangeable for, equity securities, investors will experience additional dilution. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws will make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors and may discourage takeover attempts that some of our stockholders may consider beneficial. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our board of directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of OrthoLogic Corp. and our stockholders. These provisions include, among other things, the following: 21 Table of Contents · a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms; · advance notice procedures for stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholders’ meetings; · the ability of our board of directors to fill vacancies on the board; · a prohibition against stockholders taking action by written consent; and · super majority voting requirements for the stockholders to modify or amend our bylaws and specified provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. These provisions are not intended to prevent a takeover, but are intended to protect and maximize the value of our stockholders’ interests. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable our board of directors to prevent a transaction that some, or a majority, of our stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits business combinations with interested stockholders. Interested stockholders do not include stockholders whose acquisition of our securities is pre-approved by our board of directors under Section 203. We may issue additional shares of preferred stock that have greater rights than our common stock and also have dilutive and anti-takeover effects. We are permitted by our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock. We can issue shares of our preferred stock in one or more series and can set the terms of the preferred stock without seeking any further approval from our common stockholders or other security holders. Any preferred stock that we issue may rank ahead of our common stock in terms of dividend priority or liquidation rights and may have greater voting rights than our common stock. In connection with a Rights Agreement dated as of June 19, 2007 between us and the Bank of New York, (the “Rights Agreement”), our board approved the designation of 1,000,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock. The Rights Agreement and the exercise of rights to purchase Series A Preferred Stock pursuant to the terms thereof may delay, defer or prevent a change in control because the terms of any issued Series A Preferred Stock would potentially prohibit our consummation of certain extraordinary corporate transactions without the approval of the Board. In addition to the anti-takeover effects of the rights granted under the Rights Agreement, the issuance of preferred stock, generally, could have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. We have not previously paid dividends on our common stock and we do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. We have not in the past paid any dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any future decision to pay a dividend on our common stock and the amount of any dividend paid, if permitted, will be made at the discretion of our board of directors. Developments in any of these areas, which are more fully described elsewhere in “Item 1 - Business,” and “Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” could cause our results to differ materially from results that have been or may be projected by us. 22 Table of Contents Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 