Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the risks that are described below, there may be risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial that may also impair our business. If any of the events or circumstances described as risks below or elsewhere in this report actually occur, our business, results of operations, or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. The following risks, as well as other information contained herein, including our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto, should be carefully considered in evaluating our business and any investment in our common stock. The apparel industry is heavily influenced by general economic cycles that affect consumer spending. A prolonged period of depressed consumer spending would have a material adverse effect on us. The apparel industry has historically been subject to cyclical variations, recessions in the general economy and uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect consumer spending habits, which could negatively impact our business. The success of our operations depends on a number of factors impacting discretionary consumer spending, including general economic conditions, consumer confidence, wages and unemployment, housing prices, consumer debt, interest rates, fuel and energy costs, taxation and political conditions. A continuation or worsening of the current downturn in the economy may affect consumer purchases of our products and adversely impact our growth and profitability. 5 Table of Contents There may not be an established public trading market for the Company’s common stock. Effective with the opening of business on January 19, 2007, our common stock was delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market. There is currently no established public trading market for our common stock. Our common stock is currently quoted on the Pink Sheets under the symbol “HAMP.PK”. The Pink Sheets is a centralized quotation service that collects and publishes market maker quotes for over-the-counter securities in real time. Over-the-counter market quotations, like those on the Pink Sheets, reflect inter-dealer prices, without retail mark-up, mark-down, or commission and may not necessarily represent actual transactions. Currently, we are not actively seeking to become listed on the Nasdaq Global Market or any other exchange. There can be no assurance that our common stock will again be listed on the Nasdaq Global Market or any other exchange, or that a trading market for our common stock will be established. We rely on our key customers, and a significant decrease in business from or the loss of any one of these key customers would substantially reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business. JC Penney, Kohl’s and Macy’s account for a significant portion of our revenues. We do not have long term agreements with any of our customers and purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis. A decision by any of our major customers, whether motivated by marketing strategy, competitive conditions, financial difficulties, or otherwise, to decrease significantly the amount of merchandise purchased from us or to change their manner of doing business with us, could substantially reduce our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our profitability. The retail industry has, in the past several years, experienced a great deal of consolidation and other ownership changes and we expect such changes to be ongoing. In the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations, or re-position their stores’ target markets. Any of these types of actions could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry. These changes could decrease our opportunities in the market, increase our reliance on a smaller number of customers, and decrease our negotiating strength with them. Our business has been and could continue to be adversely affected by financial instability experienced by our customers. During the past several years, various retailers have experienced significant financial difficulties, which have resulted in bankruptcies, liquidations, and store closings. Over the last few years, several of our customers, including Goody’s, Mervyns, Gottschalks, and Boscov’s, either reorganized or liquidated. We sell our product primarily to national and regional department stores in the United States on credit and evaluate each customer’s financial condition on a regular basis in order to determine the credit risk we take in selling goods to them. The financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail business with that customer and we may be unable to shift sales to another customer at comparable margins. We may also assume more credit risk relating to receivables of a customer experiencing financial instability. Should these circumstances arise with respect to our customers, our inability to shift sales or to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any one of our customers could substantially reduce our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Chargebacks and margin support payments may have a material adverse effect on our business. Consistent with industry practice, we may allow customers to deduct agreed upon amounts from the purchase price for sales allowances, co-op advertising, new store opening discounts, and other marketing development funds, which in the opinion of management promotes brand awareness. In addition, margin support payments may be required due to lower than anticipated sell through rates, which may be caused by uncontrollable factors, such as general economic conditions, changing fashion trends, and weather conditions, as well as controllable factors, such as wholesale prices, design, merchandising, and the quality of our goods. During recent years, we have experienced a significant increase in the annual amount of margin support needed. These deductions have a dilutive effect on our business and results of operations since they reduce overall gross profit margins on sales. As part of the 2009 restructuring and reorganization of our management team, we believe we have made the internal changes necessary to improve decision-making on our part, which we believe will lead to an improvement in our margin support needs. If our efforts to reduce the trend in our margin support need are unsuccessful, we will likely continue to experience significant levels of chargebacks and margin support payments, which may further reduce our profitability resulting in a material adverse effect on our business. We are dependent upon the revenues generated by our licensing alliances and the loss or inability to renew certain licenses could reduce our revenue and consequently reduce our net income. We license from third parties such as Geoffrey Beene®, Dockers®, JOE Joseph Abboud®, and Alexander Julian Colours® brands for specific products. The term of each of our licenses is generally three years, and, we typically have the opportunity to renew or extend the licenses, which are sometimes conditioned upon our meeting certain sales targets. We may not be able to renew or extend these licenses on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to renew or extend any one of these licenses, we could experience a decrease in net sales. 6 Table of Contents We may not be able to anticipate consumer preferences and fashion trends, which could negatively affect acceptance of our products by retailers and consumers and result in a significant decrease in net sales. Our failure to anticipate, identify, and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion trends could adversely affect acceptance of our products by retailers and consumers and may result in a significant decrease in net sales or leave us with a substantial amount of unsold inventory. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. We may not be able to continue to develop appealing styles or successfully meet constantly changing consumer demands in the future. In addition, any new products or brands that we introduce may not be received successfully by retailers and consumers. If our products are not received successfully by retailers and consumers and we are left with a substantial amount of unsold inventory, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess inventory. If this occurs, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We primarily use foreign suppliers for our raw materials and the manufacture of our products, which poses risks to our business operations. During 2009, most of our products were produced by independent manufacturers located in China. Although no single supplier is critical to our production needs, any of the following could adversely affect the production and delivery of our products and, as a result, have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations: • political or labor instability in countries where contractors and suppliers are located; • political or military conflict involving the United States; • heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries, or impoundment of goods for extended periods; • a significant decrease in availability or continued increase in cost of raw materials, particularly petroleum-based synthetic fabrics; • impact of the global economic downturn on third party factories and their viability; • disease epidemics and health-related concerns, such as the SARS, Avian, and H1N1 flu outbreaks in recent years, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, and scrutiny or embargo of goods produced in infected areas; • imposition of regulations, quotas or duties relating to imports, which, among other things, could limit our ability to produce products in cost effective countries that have the labor force and expertise required; • any action that may change the currency exchange rate of the Yuan against the dollar or to permit the exchange rate to float; and • significant fluctuation of the value of the dollar against other foreign currencies. The occurrence of any, some, or all of these events would result in an increase in our costs of goods, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. This reduction in our gross margin would likely result in an adverse effect on our results of operations. If our manufacturers fail to use acceptable ethical business practices, our business could be adversely affected. We require our manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices, and environmental compliance. However, we do not control the labor and other business practices of the independent manufacturers of our products. If one of our manufacturers violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the United States, the shipment of products to us could be interrupted and our reputation could be damaged. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business could be harmed if we do not deliver quality products in a timely manner. Our sourcing, logistics, and technology functions operate within substantial production and delivery requirements and subject us to the risks associated with unaffiliated manufacturers, transportation, and other factors. If we do not comply with customer product requirements or meet their delivery requirements, our customers could seek reduced purchase prices, require significant margin support, reduce the amount of business they do with us, or cease to do business with us, all of which would adversely affect our business. 7 Table of Contents If we encounter problems with our distribution system, our ability to deliver our products to the market would be adversely affected. We rely on our third party distribution facilities to warehouse and to ship product to our customers. Due to the fact that substantially all of our product is distributed from a relatively small number of locations, our operations could be interrupted by earthquakes, floods, fires, or other natural disasters near our distribution centers. We maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from the loss of customers. In addition, our distribution capacity is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including transportation of product to and from distribution facilities. If we encounter problems with our distribution system, our inability to meet customer expectations on managing inventory, complete sales, and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies could have a material adverse effect on our business. Labor disruptions at ports or our suppliers’ facilities, manufacturers’ facilities, or distribution facilities may adversely affect our business. Our business depends on our ability to source and distribute product in a timely manner. As a result, we rely on the free flow of goods on a consistent basis from our suppliers and manufacturers. Labor disputes at various ports or at our suppliers, manufacturers, or our distribution facilities create significant risks for our business, particularly if these disputes result in work slowdowns, lockouts, strikes, or other disruptions during our peak importing or manufacturing seasons. An interruption in the flow of goods could have a material adverse effect on our business, potentially resulting in cancelled orders by customers, unanticipated inventory accumulation, or shortages and reduced net sales and net income. We rely significantly on information technology and any failure, inadequacy, interruption, or security lapse of that technology could adversely affect our ability to effectively operate our business. Our ability to manage and maintain our inventory and internal reports and to ship products to customers and invoice them on a timely basis depends significantly on our internally developed enterprise resource planning system, as over 90% of our orders are received electronically. The failure of this system to operate effectively or to integrate with other systems or a breach in security of this system could cause delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, and it could require significant capital investments to remedy any such failure, problem, or breach. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry and our failure to compete successfully could result in a loss of one or more significant customers. The apparel industry is highly competitive and fragmented. Our competitors include numerous apparel designers, manufacturers, retailers, importers, and licensors, many of which have greater financial and marketing resources than we possess. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the apparel industry are: • brand name and brand identity, • timeliness, reliability, and quality of product and services provided, • market share and visibility, • price, and • the ability to anticipate customer and consumer demands. The level of competition and the nature of our competitors vary by product segment with low margin manufacturers being our main competitors in the less expensive segment of the market and with domestic and foreign designers and licensors competing with us in the more upscale segment of the market. Increasingly, we experience competition from our customers’ in-house private labels. If we do not maintain our brand names and identities and continue to provide high quality and reliable services on a timely basis at competitive prices, our ability to compete in our industry will be adversely affected. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose one or more of our significant customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and financial performance. We may face challenges in the management of the sales and profitability of any acquisitions that we may make, as well as in integrating the acquisitions, any of which may negatively impact our business. As part of our growth strategy, we may acquire or license new brands and product categories. Acquisitions have inherent risks, including the risk that the projected sales and net income from the acquisition may not be generated, the risk that the integration of the acquired business is more costly and takes longer than anticipated, the risk of diversion of the attention and resources of management, risks associated with additional customer concentration and related credit risk, risks of retaining key personnel, and risks associated with unanticipated events and unknown legal liabilities. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business. 8 Table of Contents The ultimate resolution of income and other possible tax liabilities may require us to incur expense beyond amounts reserved on our balance sheet or make cash payments beyond those that we anticipated. Our historic income and other tax positions may be challenged by the appropriate taxing authorities. We believe that we have provided adequate reserves for these tax positions for all periods open under the applicable statutes of limitations, but a challenge by a taxing authority could prove costly to defend as well as to resolve. If the actual liability for taxes exceeds our reserves, earnings could be materially adversely affected and we may be required to make cash payments beyond what we anticipated. We are dependent on certain key personnel, the loss of whom could negatively impact our ability to manage our business and thereby adversely affect our business. Our future success depends to a significant extent on retaining the services of key executive officers, other key members of management, and directors. The loss of the services of any one of these individuals, or any other key member of management, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The stockholders’ rights plan adopted by the Board of Directors in 2008 may inhibit takeovers and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In 2008, our Board of Directors (“Board”) approved the creation of our Series A Preferred Stock and adopted a stockholders’ rights plan pursuant to which it declared a dividend of one Series A Preferred Stock purchase right for each share of our common stock held by stockholders of record. The preferred share purchase rights will also attach to any additional shares of common stock issued. Initially, these rights will not be exercisable and will trade with the shares of our common stock. Under the rights plan, these rights will generally be exercisable only if a person or group acquires, or commences a tender or exchange offer, for 15% or more of our common stock. If the rights become exercisable, each right will permit its holder to purchase one one-thousandth of a share of Series A Preferred Stock for the exercise price of $33.00 per right. The rights plan also contains customary “flip-in” and “flip-over” provisions such that if a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of fifteen percent or more of our common stock, each right will permit its holder, other than the acquiring person or group, to purchase shares of our common stock for a price equal to the quotient obtained by dividing $33.00 per right by one-half the then current market price of our common stock. In addition, if, after a person acquires such ownership, we are later acquired in a merger or similar transaction, each right will permit its holder, other than the acquiring person or group, to purchase shares of the acquiring corporation’s stock for a price equal to the quotient obtained by dividing $33.00 per right by one-half of the then current market price of the acquiring company’s common stock, based on the market price of the acquiring corporation’s stock prior to such merger. The stockholders’ rights plan and the associated Series A Preferred Stock purchase rights may discourage a hostile takeover and prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium over the prevailing market price for the shares of our common stock. Global economic, political and social conditions may harm our ability to do business, increase our costs and negatively affect our stock price. The direction and relative strength of the global economy has recently deteriorated significantly due to softness in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, volatility in fuel and other energy costs, difficulties in the financial services sector and credit markets, continuing geopolitical uncertainties and other macroeconomic factors affecting spending behavior. Economic growth in the United States and other countries continues to be uncertain, and may cause customers to further delay or reduce purchases. These and other macroeconomic factors had an adverse impact in 2009 on the sales of our products. The current global financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business have resulted in a tightening of credit markets, lower levels of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. These conditions have made it more difficult to obtain financing. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including additional insolvencies of certain of our customers and suppliers, and the inability of customers and suppliers to obtain credit financing to finance purchases of our products or the materials used to build those products. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 9 Table of Contents 