Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the risks that are described below, there may be risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial that may also impair our business. If any of the events or circumstances described as risks below or elsewhere in this report actually occur, our business, results of operations, or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. The following risks, as well as other information contained herein, including our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto, should be carefully considered in evaluating our business and any investment in our common stock. We rely on our key customers, and a significant decrease in business from or the loss of any one of these customers would substantially reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business. Four of our customers account for a significant portion of our revenues. We do not have long term agreements with any of our customers and purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis. A decision by any of our major customers, whether motivated by marketing strategy, competitive conditions, financial difficulties, or otherwise, to decrease significantly the amount of merchandise purchased from us or to change their manner of doing business with us, could substantially reduce our revenues and have a material adverse effect our profitability. The retail industry has, in the past several years, experienced a great deal of consolidation and other ownership changes and we expect such changes to be ongoing. In the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations, or re-position their stores’ target markets. Any of these types of actions could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry. These changes could decrease our opportunities in the market, increase our reliance on a smaller number of customers, and decrease our negotiating strength with them. Our business could be adversely affected by financial instability experienced by our customers. During the past several years, various retailers have experienced significant financial difficulties, which have resulted in bankruptcies, liquidations, and store closings. We sell our product primarily to national and regional department and mass merchant stores in the United States on credit and evaluate each customer’s financial condition on a regular basis in order to determine the credit risk we take in selling goods to them. The financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail business with that customer and we may be unable to shift sales to another customer at comparable margins. We may also assume more credit risk relating to receivables of a customer experiencing financial instability. Should these circumstances arise with respect to our customers, our inability to shift sales or to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any one of our customers could substantially reduce our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon the revenues generated by our licensing alliances and the loss or inability to renew certain licenses could reduce our revenue and consequently reduce our net income. During 2007, we licensed from third parties the Geoffrey Beene®, Dockers®, Levi’s®, and Joseph Abboud® brands for specific products. We did not continue with the Levi’s license beyond 2007. The term of both the Geoffrey Beene® and Dockers® license is three years, and we currently have a renewal option on only the Dockers® license, which is conditioned upon our meeting certain sales targets. The term of the Joseph Abboud® Components’ license is three and one-half years with a three year option to renew, which is conditioned upon our meeting certain sales targets. The term of the Joseph Abboud® license for women’s is four and one-half years with a three year option to renew, which is conditioned upon our meeting certain sales targets. We may not be able to renew or extend these licenses on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to renew or extend any one of these licenses, we could experience a decrease in net sales. We may not be able to anticipate consumer preferences and fashion trends, which could negatively affect acceptance of our products by retailers and consumers and result in a significant decrease in net sales. Our failure to anticipate, identify, and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion trends could adversely affect acceptance of our products by retailers and consumers and may result in a significant decrease in net sales or leave us with a substantial amount of unsold inventory. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. We may not be able to continue to develop appealing styles or successfully meet constantly changing consumer demands in the future. In addition, any new products or brands that we introduce may not be received successfully by retailers and consumers. Due to the fact that we began marketing juniors’ apparel with the acquisition of Shane Hunter, we may be more subject to additional changes in fashion as juniors’ fashion trends have historically changed more rapidly than men’s and women’s fashion trends. If our products are not received successfully by retailers and consumers and we are left with a substantial amount of unsold inventory, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess inventory. If this occurs, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely and materially affected. 7 Table of Contents We primarily use foreign suppliers for our raw materials and the manufacture of our products, which poses risks to our business operations. During fiscal 2007, most of our products were produced by independent manufacturers located in the PRC. Although no single supplier is critical to our production needs, any of the following could adversely affect the production and delivery of our products and, as a result, have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations: • political or labor instability in countries where contractors and suppliers are located; • political or military conflict involving the United States; • heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries, or impoundment of goods for extended periods; • a continued tightening of the factory labor pool in China; • a significant decrease in availability or continued increase in cost of raw materials, particularly petroleum-based synthetic fabrics; • disease epidemics and health-related concerns, such as the SARS and the Avian flu out breaks in recent years, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, and scrutiny or embargo of goods produced in infected areas; • imposition of regulations, quotas or duties relating to imports, which, among other things, could limit our ability to produce products in cost effective countries that have the labor force and expertise required; • any action that may change the currency exchange rate of the Yuan against the dollar or to permit the exchange rate to float; and • significant fluctuation of the value of the dollar against other foreign currencies. The occurrence of any or all of these events would result in an increase in our costs of goods, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. This reduction in our gross margin would likely result in an adverse effect on our results of operations. If our manufacturers fail to use acceptable ethical business practices, our business could be adversely affected. We require our manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices, and environmental compliance. However, we do not control the labor and other business practices of the independent manufacturers of our products. If one of our manufacturers violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the United States, the shipment of products to us could be interrupted and our reputation could be damaged. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business could be harmed if we do not deliver quality products in a timely manner. Our sourcing, logistics, and technology functions operate within substantial production and delivery requirements and subject us to the risks associated with unaffiliated manufacturers, transportation, and other risks. If we do not comply with customer product requirements or meet their delivery requirements, our customers could reduce the purchase prices, require significant margin support, reduce the amount of business they do with us, or cease to do business with us, all of which would adversely affect our business. If we encounter problems with our distribution system, our ability to deliver our products to the market would be adversely affected. We rely on our third party distribution facilities to warehouse and to ship product to our customers. Due to the fact that substantially all of our product is distributed from a relatively small number of locations, our operations could be interrupted by earthquakes, floods, fires, or other natural disasters near our distribution centers. We maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from the loss of customers. In addition, our distribution capacity is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including transportation of product to and from distribution facilities. If we encounter problems with our distribution system, our inability to meet customer expectations on managing inventory, complete sales, and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies could have a material adverse effect on our business. 8 Table of Contents Labor disruptions at ports or our suppliers, manufacturers, or distribution facilities may adversely affect our business. Our business depends on our ability to source and distribute product in a timely manner. As a result, we rely on the free flow of goods on a consistent basis from our suppliers and manufacturers. Labor disputes at various ports or at our suppliers, manufacturers, or our distribution facilities create significant risks for our business, particularly if these disputes result in work slowdowns, lockouts, strikes, or other disruptions during our peak importing or manufacturing seasons. An interruption in the flow of goods could have a material adverse effect on our business, potentially resulting in cancelled orders by customers, unanticipated inventory accumulation, or shortages and reduced net sales and net income. Chargebacks and margin support payments may have a material adverse effect on our business. Consistent with industry practice, we sometimes allow customers to deduct agreed upon amounts from the purchase price for sales allowances, new store opening discounts, and other marketing development funds, which in the opinion of management promotes brand awareness. In addition, margin support payments may be required due to lower than anticipated sell through rates, which may be caused by changing fashion trends and weather conditions, among other things. These deductions have a dilutive effect on our business and results of operations since they reduce overall gross profit margins on sales. Significant levels of chargebacks and margin support payments would reduce our profitability resulting in a material adverse effect on our business. We rely significantly on information technology and any failure, inadequacy, interruption, or security lapse of that technology could adversely affect our ability to effectively operate our business. Our ability to manage and maintain our inventory and internal reports and to ship products to customers and invoice them on a timely basis depends significantly on our internally developed enterprise resource planning system as over 90% of our orders are received electronically. The failure of this system to operate effectively or to integrate with other systems or a breach in security of this system could cause delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, and it could require significant capital investments to remediate any such failure, problem, or breach. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry and our failure to compete successfully could result in a loss of one or more significant customers. The apparel industry is highly competitive and fragmented. Our competitors include numerous apparel designers, manufacturers, retailers, importers, and licensors, many of which have greater financial and marketing resources. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the apparel industry are: • brand name and brand identity, • timeliness, reliability, and quality of product and services provided, • market share and visibility, • price, and • the ability to anticipate customer and consumer demands. The level of competition and the nature of our competitors vary by product segment with low margin, mass merchant manufacturers being our main competitors in the less expensive segment of the market and with domestic and foreign designers and licensors competing with us in the more upscale segment of the market. Increasingly, we experience competition from our customers’ in-house private labels. If we do not maintain our brand names and identities and continue to provide high quality and reliable services on a timely basis at competitive prices, our ability to compete in our industry will be adversely affected. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose one or more of our significant customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and financial performance. We may face challenges in the management of the sales and profitability of any acquisitions that we may make, as well as in integrating the acquisitions, any of which may negatively impact our business. As part of our growth strategy, we may acquire new brands and product categories. Acquisitions have inherent risks, including the risk that the projected sales and net income from the acquisition may not be generated, the risk that the integration of the acquired business is more costly and takes longer than anticipated, the risk of diversion of the attention and resources of management, risks associated with additional customer concentration and related credit risk, risks of retaining key personnel, and risks associated with unanticipated events and unknown legal liabilities. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business. 9 Table of Contents Ludwig Kuttner’s ownership interest in the Company and our dispute with and lawsuit against Mr. Kuttner could adversely affect our business or influence the outcome of key transactions presented to stockholders for their approval. On March 7, 2008, we filed a lawsuit against Mr. Ludwig Kuttner, our former Chief Executive Officer, former Chairman, and current Director, regarding acts of fraud and other matters. In addition, we are party to an ongoing arbitration brought by Mr. Kuttner regarding the termination of his employment from the Company. See PART I, Item 3 — Legal Proceedings for additional discussion regarding these matters. According to the latest Form 4 filed with the SEC by Mr. Kuttner, he and his affiliates owned approximately 31.1% of our common stock as of December 31, 2007, which provides Mr. Kuttner the ability to affect the outcome of, or exert influence over, all matters requiring stockholder approval, including but not limited to, the election and removal of directors. The ultimate resolution of income and other possible tax liabilities may require us to incur expense beyond amounts reserved on our balance sheet or make cash payments beyond those that we anticipated. Former management took certain historic income and other tax positions that may be challenged by the appropriate taxing authorities. Additionally, certain actions by the former management have increased our possible tax liabilities. We believe that we have provided adequate reserves for these tax positions for all periods open under the applicable statute of limitations, but a challenge by a taxing authority could prove costly to defend as well as resolve. If the actual liability for taxes exceeds our reserves, earnings could be materially adversely affected and we may be required to make cash payments beyond what we anticipated. Future defaults under our credit facility may adversely affect our business. We have a revolving credit facility with a group of lenders, under which we had no amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2007. Our purchases of inventory are mainly financed through letters of credit which are issued under the terms of our revolving credit facility. If we were to be in default of the covenants under the revolving credit facility, our ability to issue the letters of credit to our suppliers and therefore obtain our inventory to meet our customer demands may be limited. In addition, due to the seasonality of our business, it is at times necessary for us to borrow against the line of credit under the revolving credit facility. If we were to be in default of the covenants under the revolving credit facility, the lenders may be able to accelerate payment of amounts due thereunder and we may not be able to arrange financing for our operations. We are dependent on certain key personnel, the loss of whom could negatively impact our ability to manage our business and thereby adversely affect our business. Our future success depends to a significant extent on retaining the services of key executive officers, other key members of management, and directors. The loss of the services of any one of these individuals, or any other key member of management, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Investigations by the SEC and the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York. The SEC and the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York (“U.S. Attorney’s Office”) are currently investigating certain issues identified during an investigation by the Audit Committee (the “Audit Committee”) of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) related to, among other things, the misuse and misappropriation of assets for personal benefit, certain related party transactions, tax reporting, internal control deficiencies, financial reporting, and accounting for expense reimbursements, in each case involving certain members of our former management (“Audit Committee Investigation”). The Audit Committee Investigation is described in Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Restatements and Related Matters. We are cooperating fully with the investigations by the SEC and the U.S. Attorney’s Office. Our management and certain committees of the Board have devoted a significant amount of time and our resources to these matters to date. There can be no assurance that the ongoing matters will not consume a significant amount of management and the Board’s time and our resources. In addition, there can be no assurance that the SEC or U.S. Attorney’s Office will not levy fines or penalties on the Company related to these matters or that civil litigation involving private plaintiffs will not arise in the future related to these matters. A risk exists that we may have to restate our prior financial statements. While we believe that the information set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained herein fairly presents, in all material respects, our financial condition and results of operations, the SEC may disagree with the manner in which we reported various matters, or we may discover additional information that impacts the information contained herein. Accordingly, we may be required to restate our financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC, or take other actions not currently contemplated. 10 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 