ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following list describes several of the more significant risk factors unique to our company. Additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed under “Forward-Looking Statements” and elsewhere in this Form 10-K: Market fluctuations and general economic conditions may adversely impact our operating results and financial position. Our investment income and the values of our investment holdings are sensitive to stock, real estate and interest rate market fluctuations and general economic conditions and these fluctuations could adversely affect our investment returns, realized and unrealized investment gains and losses and the value of our invested assets. A prolonged period of high inflation could cause a negative change in consumer sentiment adversely affecting the sales and persistency of our products. Market conditions also determine the availability and cost of reinsurance we employ to limit our risks. Losses due to defaults by others could adversely impact the value of our investments and our operating results. Issuers and borrowers whose securities we hold and reinsurers may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud or other reasons, having an adverse impact on our operating results and financial position. The life insurance industry is becoming increasingly competitive. If we are not able to effectively compete it would adversely impact our operating results and financial position. We face significant competition, including from companies with significantly greater resources. Product life cycles have shortened in many product segments, creating intense competition regarding product features. Larger companies with greater resources are able to allocate more resources to brand identity, product development and risk management, as well as distribution capability and information technology needed to offer the superior customer service demanded by an increasingly sophisticated marketplace (both policyholder and agent base). Differences between actual claims experience and underwriting and reserving assumptions might adversely impact our operating results and financial position. We set prices for our insurance products based upon expected claims, using assumptions for mortality and morbidity rates of our policyholders and expected persistency of our products. Significant deviations in actual experience from our pricing assumptions could adversely affect our profitability. If our reserves for future policyholder benefits are inadequate, an increase in our reserves in the future would adversely impact our operating results and financial position. We establish reserves to pay future policyholder benefits based upon actuarial or statistical estimates, using many assumptions and projections which involve the exercise of significant judgment, including as to the levels of and timing of receipt or payment of premiums, benefits, claims, expenses, interest credits, investment results, surrenders, mortality, morbidity and persistency. If we conclude that our reserves are inadequate, we would be required to increase our reserves and incur operating statement charges for the period in which we make the determination, adversely impacting our operating results and financial position. 11 Reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses. While life reinsurance generally binds the reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured at generally fixed pricing, market conditions determine the availability and cost of reinsurance protection for new business. As a result of consolidation of the life reinsurance market and other market factors, capacity in the life reinsurance market has decreased. Further, life reinsurance is currently available at higher prices and less favorable terms than those prevailing between 1997 and 2003. Further consolidation, regulatory developments, catastrophic events or other significant developments affecting the pricing and availability of reinsurance could materially harm the reinsurance market and our ability to enter into reinsurance agreements. An increase in the cost of reinsurance or our inability to protect us against large losses would adversely impact our operating results and financial position. We may be unable to attract and retain sales representatives for our products which would adversely impact our operating results and financial position. We use an independent agent distribution channel to sell our products. Our independent agents generally sell competing products offered by a number of different insurance companies. Strong competition exists among insurance companies for agents with demonstrated ability. The companies represented by independent agents compete on the basis of financial position, support services, compensation, product features and other factors. If we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining high quality, producing agents our profitability could be significantly adversely affected. We may not be able to raise capital, if necessary, at an affordable cost which could adversely impact our operating results. Due to our relative small size, the relatively thin market for shares of our stock and our lack of a stable history of income, we may not be able to raise additional capital or borrowings, if needed, with acceptable terms. This could force us to forgo opportunities to grow or force us to raise capital with unfavorable terms, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial position. The loss and replacement of a key employee or director could disrupt our operations and adversely impact our operating results. Due to the relative size and the limited resources of our business we are forced to operate with a limited number of key management employees. The loss of one or more of our key employees or directors could be disruptive to our operations, and filling a vacancy could be expensive and difficult because we compete with larger companies having greater resources for qualified management employees and directors. Such a loss could adversely impact our operating results. We may be required to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs (“DAC”), or value of insurance acquired (“VIF”), or recognize impairment in the value of our goodwill that would adversely impact our operating results and financial position. Deferred acquisition costs represent the costs that vary with and are related primarily to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance contracts. We amortize these costs over the expected lives of the related insurance contracts. Valuation of business acquired represents the present value of future profits embedded in acquired business and is amortized over the expected lives of the acquired contracts. Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other business over the fair value at the date of acquisition of the net assets acquired. Management continuously tests the DAC and VIF to determine if the recorded amounts are recoverable under current assumptions. We also regularly review the estimates and assumptions underlying DAC and VIF for those products for which we amortize DAC and VIF in proportion to gross profits. Management reviews goodwill for impairment at least annually based upon estimates of the fair value of the reporting unit to which the goodwill relates. Given changes in facts and circumstances, these tests and reviews could lead to reductions in goodwill, DAC or VIF that could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial position. 12 A downgrade or potential downgrade in our claims paying rating could limit our ability to market products and/or increase the number or value of policies being surrendered. Claims paying ratings represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding the financial ability of an insurance company to meet its obligations under an insurance policy, and are important factors affecting public confidence in an insurer and its competitive position in marketing products. Our operating insurance subsidiaries are heavily regulated and changes in regulation could reduce our profitability and limit our growth. Our insurance subsidiaries are regulated by the Kentucky Office of Insurance and other states in which they are licensed to do business. We are also subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC and NASDAQ relative to reporting and disclosure, security trading, accounting and financial reporting and corporate governance matters. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations adopted in furtherance of that Act have substantially increased the requirements in these and other areas for public companies. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and staff intensive. Changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance costs, adversely impacting our operating results and financial position. Legal actions are inherent in our insurance business and could adversely impact our operating results and financial position. We face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of business, including the risk of class action lawsuits. Any adverse judgment against us, and the legal costs of defending our company in potentially lengthy legal battles would have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial position, as well as threaten our ability to continue operating. Catastrophes may adversely impact our operating results and financial position. Our insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other natural or man caused event that causes a large number of deaths. The occurrence of any such catastrophic event could materially adversely impact our operating results and financial position due to a potentially large number of death claims and surrenders. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk which could adversely impact our operating results and financial position. Our policies and procedures to monitor risks may not be fully effective and may leave us exposed to unidentified and unanticipated risks. Past or future employee or agent misconduct could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions, serious financial harm or harm to our reputation, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect such activity may not be effective in all cases. A failure of our computer systems or a compromise of their security could subject us to regulatory sanctions or other claims, harm our reputation, interrupt our operations and adversely impact our business, operating results, or financial position. 13 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 