Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the risks which are described below, there may be risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial that may also impair our business. If any of the events or circumstances described as risks below or elsewhere in this report actually occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. You should carefully consider the following risks as well as other information contained herein, including our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto, in evaluating our business. We rely on our key customers, and a significant decrease in business from or the loss of any one of these customers would substantially reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business. Four of our customers account for significant portions of our revenues. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our customers and purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis. A decision by any of our major customers, whether motivated by marketing strategy, competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease significantly the amount of merchandise purchased from us or to change their manner of doing business with us, could substantially reduce our revenues and materially adversely affect our profitability. The retail industry has, in the past several years, experienced a great deal of consolidation and other ownership changes and we expect such changes to be ongoing. In the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or re-position their stores’ target markets. Any of these types of actions could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry. These changes could decrease our opportunities in the market, increase our reliance on a smaller number of customers, and decrease our negotiating strength with them. Our business could be adversely affected by financial instability experienced by our customers. During the past several years, various retailers have experienced significant financial difficulties, which have resulted in bankruptcies, liquidations, and store closings. We sell our products primarily to national and regional department and mass-market stores in the United States on credit and evaluate each customer’s financial condition on a regular basis in order to determine the credit risk we take in selling goods to them. The financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail business with that customer and we may be unable to shift sales to another customer at comparable margins. We may also assume more credit risk relating to receivables of a customer experiencing financial instability. Should these circumstances arise with respect to our customers, our inability to shift sales or to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any one of our customers could substantially reduce our revenues and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon the revenues generated by our licensing alliances and the loss or inability to renew certain licenses could reduce our revenue and consequently reduce our net income. We currently license from third parties the Geoffrey Beene®, Dockers®, and Levi’s® brands for specific products. We will not continue with the Levi’s license beyond 2007. The term of both the Geoffrey Beene® and Dockers® license is three years, and we currently have a renewal option on only the Dockers® license, which is conditioned upon our meeting certain sales targets. We may not be able to renew or extend these licenses on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to renew or extend any one of these licenses, we could experience a decrease in net sales. We may not be able to anticipate consumer preferences and fashion trends, which could negatively affect acceptance of our products by retailers and consumers and result in a significant decrease in net sales. Our failure to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion trends could adversely affect acceptance of our products by retailers and consumers and may result in a significant decrease in net sales or leave us with a substantial amount of unsold inventory. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. We may not be able to continue to develop appealing styles or successfully meet constantly changing consumer demands in the future. In addition, any new products or brands that we introduce may not be received successfully by retailers and consumers. Due to the fact that we began marketing juniors’ apparel with the acquisition of Shane Hunter, we may be more subject to additional changes in fashion as juniors’ fashion trends have historically changed more rapidly than men’s and women’s fashion trends. If our products are not received successfully by retailers and consumers and we are left with a substantial amount of unsold inventory, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess inventory. If this occurs, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely and materially affected. 5 Table of Contents We primarily use foreign suppliers for our raw materials and the manufacture of our products, which poses risks to our business operations. During fiscal 2006, most of our products were produced by independent manufacturers located in the People’s Republic of China. Although no single supplier is critical to our production needs, any of the following could adversely affect the production and delivery of our products and, as a result, have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations: • political or labor instability in countries where contractors and suppliers are located; • political or military conflict involving the United States; • heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods; • a continued tightening of the factory labor pool in China; • a significant decrease in availability or increase in cost of raw materials, particularly petroleum-based synthetic fabrics; • disease epidemics and health-related concerns, such as the SARS and the Avian flu out breaks in recent years, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces and scrutiny or embargo of goods produced in infected areas; • imposition of regulations, quotas or duties relating to imports, which, among other things, could limit our ability to produce products in cost effective countries that have the labor force and expertise required; • any action that may change the fixed currency exchange rate of the yuan against the dollar or to permit the exchange rate to float; and • significant fluctuation of the value of the dollar against other foreign currencies. The occurrence of any or all of these events would result in an increase in our costs of goods, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. This reduction in our gross margin would likely result in an adverse effect on our results of operations. If our manufacturers fail to use acceptable ethical business practices, our business could be adversely affected. We require our manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices, and environmental compliance. However, we do not control our independent manufacturers or their labor and other business practices. If one of our manufacturers violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the United States, the shipment of products to us could be interrupted and our reputation could be damaged. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business could be harmed if we do not deliver quality products in a timely manner. Our sourcing, logistics, and technology functions operate within substantial production and delivery requirements and subject us to the risks associated with unaffiliated manufacturers, transportation, and other risks. If we do not comply with customer product requirements or meet their delivery requirements, our customers could reduce the purchase prices, require significant margin support, reduce the amount of business they do with us, or cease to do business with us, all of which would adversely affect our business. If we encounter problems with our distribution system, our ability to deliver our products to the market would be adversely affected. We rely on our third party distribution facilities to warehouse and to ship products to our customers. Due to the fact that substantially all of our products are distributed from a relatively small number of locations, our operations could be interrupted by earthquakes, floods, fires, or other natural disasters near our distribution centers. We maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from the loss of customers. In addition, our distribution capacity is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including transportation of product to and from distribution facilities. If we encounter problems with our distribution system, our inability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales, and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies could materially adversely affect our business. 6 Table of Contents Labor disruptions at ports or our suppliers or manufacturers or distribution facilities may adversely affect our business. Our business depends on our ability to source and distribute products in a timely manner. As a result, we rely on the free flow of goods on a consistent basis from our suppliers and manufacturers. Labor disputes at various ports or at our suppliers, manufacturers, or our distribution facilities create significant risks for our business, particularly if these disputes result in work slowdowns, lockouts, strikes or other disruptions during our peak importing or manufacturing seasons. An interruption in the flow of goods could have a material adverse affect on our business, potentially resulting in cancelled orders by customers, unanticipated inventory accumulation, or shortages and reduced net revenues and net income. Chargebacks and margin support payments may have a material adverse affect on our business. Consistent with industry practice we sometimes allow customers to deduct agreed upon amounts from the purchase price for sales allowances, new store opening discounts, and other marketing development funds, which in the opinion of management promotes brand awareness. In addition, margin support payments may be required due to lower than anticipated sell through rates, which may be caused by changing fashion trends and weather conditions, among other things. These deductions have a dilutive effect on our business and results of operations since they reduce overall gross profit margins on sales. Significant levels of chargebacks and margin support payments could reduce our profitability resulting in a material adverse effect on our business. We rely significantly on information technology and any failure, inadequacy, interruption, or security lapse of that technology could adversely affect our ability to effectively operate our business. Our ability to effectively manage and maintain our inventory and internal reports and to ship products to customers and invoice them on a timely basis depends significantly on our enterprise resource planning system to which we make modifications on an on-going basis. The failure of this system to operate effectively or to integrate with other systems, or a breach in security of this system could cause delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, and it could require significant capital investments to remediate any such failure, problem or breach. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry and our failure to compete successfully could result in a loss of one or more significant customers. The apparel industry is highly competitive and fragmented. Our competitors include numerous apparel designers, manufacturers, retailers, importers and licensors, many of which have greater financial and marketing resources. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the apparel industry are: • brand name and brand identity, • timeliness, reliability, and quality of products and services provided, • market share and visibility, • price, and • the ability to anticipate customer and consumer demands. The level of competition and the nature of our competitors vary by product segment with low margin, mass market manufacturers being our main competitors in the less expensive segment of the market and domestic and foreign designers and licensors competing with us in the more upscale segment of the market. Increasingly, we experience competition from our customers’ own in house private label offerings. If we do not maintain our brand names and identities and continue to provide high quality and reliable services on a timely basis at competitive prices, our ability to compete in our industry will be adversely affected. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose one or more of our significant customers, which would adversely affect our sales and financial performance. We may face challenges integrating the acquisitions of David Brooks and Shane Hunter or any other businesses we may acquire, which may negatively impact our business. As part of our strategy of making acquisitions, we acquire new brands and product categories. Acquisitions have inherent risks, including the risk that the projected sales and net income from the acquisition may not be generated, the risk that the integration of the acquired business is more costly and takes longer than anticipated, risk of diversion of the attention and resources of management, risks associated with additional customer concentration and related credit risk, risks of retaining key personnel, and risks associated with unanticipated events and unknown legal liabilities. Any of these risks could adversely affect our business. 7 Table of Contents The Company’s dispute with its former Chief Executive Officer and Chairman could adversely affect our business. We currently have an ongoing dispute (See PART I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings) with Mr. Ludwig Kuttner, former Chief Executive Officer, former Chairman, and current Director, regarding his employment agreement that is in arbitration. The Company is currently evaluating claims it may have against Mr. Kuttner and others, including claims for misappropriation, breach of duty of loyalty and, pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, disgorgement of bonuses and net gain on stock sales. Mr. Kuttner and his affiliates own approximately 31.1% of our common stock as of August 31, 2007, which could, among other things, affect the stability of our business and thereby adversely affect our business. Mr. Kuttner and his affiliates own a significant portion of our common stock, which could influence the outcome of key transactions presented to stockholders for their approval. As of August 31, 2007, Mr. Kuttner and his affiliates owned approximately 31.1% of our common stock. Accordingly, Mr. Kuttner and his affiliates have the ability to affect the outcome of, or exert influence over, all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and any change in control. The ultimate resolution of income and other possible tax liabilities may require us to incur expense beyond amounts reserved on our balance sheet or make cash payments beyond those that we anticipated. Former management took certain historic income and other tax positions that may be challenged by the appropriate taxing authorities. Additionally, certain actions by the former management have increased the possible tax liabilities of the Company. We believe that the Company has provided adequate reserves for these tax positions for all periods open under the applicable statute of limitations, but a challenge by a taxing authority could prove costly to defend as well as resolve. If the actual liability for taxes exceeds our reserves, earnings could be adversely affected and the Company may be required to make cash payments beyond what we anticipated. Future defaults under our credit facility may adversely affect our business. We have a $100.0 million revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”) with a group of lenders, under which we had no amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2006. Our purchases of inventory are mainly financed through letters of credit which are issued under the terms of our Revolving Credit Facility. If the Company were to be in default of the covenants under the Revolving Credit Facility, the ability to issue the letters of credit to our suppliers and therefore obtain our inventory to meet our customer demands may be limited. In addition, due to the seasonality of our business, it is at times necessary for the Company to borrow against the line of credit under the Revolving Credit Facility. If the Company were to be in default of the covenants under the Revolving Credit Facility, the Company may not be able to arrange financing for its operations. As a result of our delinquency in filing certain periodic reports during 2006 and 2007 with the SEC, we are currently in breach of certain covenants contained in our Revolving Credit Facility. While our lenders have unanimously granted us all necessary waivers to date with respect to such breaches, there can be no assurance that they will grant any requests for additional waivers should we require them. In addition, our Revolving Credit Facility expires on December 31, 2007. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to renew or replace our Revolving Credit Facility prior to its expiration. We are dependent on certain key personnel, the loss of whom could negatively impact our ability to manage our business and thereby adversely affect our business. Our future success depends to a significant extent on retaining the services of certain executive officers and directors. The loss of the services of any one of these individuals, or any other key member of management, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could adversely affect the market for our common stock. As discussed in Item 9A. Management’s Report on Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting, our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 and has identified two material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006. Due to these material weaknesses, management has concluded that we did not maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006. As outlined in Item 9A. (c) Changes in Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting, we have engaged in, and continue to engage in, substantial efforts to address the material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. We cannot be certain that remedial measures we have taken or plan to take will ensure that we maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or will be sufficient to address and eliminate these material weaknesses. Our inability to remedy these identified material weaknesses or any additional deficiencies or material weaknesses that may be identified in the future, could, among other 8 Table of Contents things, cause us to fail to file our periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner, prevent us from providing reliable and accurate financial reports or require us to incur additional costs or divert management resources. Our common stock has been delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market as a result of our inability to file our periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner, and future delays to file may negatively affect the trading of our common stock. In addition, these material weaknesses may lead to a restriction on our ability to obtain equity financing. Investigations by the SEC and the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York. The SEC and the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York (“U.S. Attorney’s Office”) are currently investigating certain issues identified during the Audit Committee Investigation. The Company is cooperating fully with the investigations. Our management and certain committees of the Board of Directors have devoted a significant amount of time and Company resources to these matters to date. There can be no assurance that the ongoing matters will not consume a significant amount of management and the Board of Directors time and resources of the Company. In addition, there can be no assurance that the SEC or U.S. Attorney’s Office will not levy fines or penalties on the Company related to these matters or that civil litigation involving private plaintiffs will not arise in the future related to these matters. A risk exists that we may have to restate our prior financial statements. While we believe that the information set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained herein fairly presented, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company, the SEC may disagree with the manner in which we reported various matters or we may discover additional information that impacts the information contained herein. Accordingly, we may be required to restate our financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC, or take other actions not currently contemplated. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. On December 15, 2006, the Company received written comments from the staff of the SEC (“Staff”) regarding a Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Company on December 14, 2006. The Company responded to the Staff comments prior to December 31, 2006 and, as of the date of this filing, has received no additional comments. 9 Table of Contents 