D. Risk Factors Investing in our series B shares and the ADSs involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following risks, as well as all the other information presented in this annual report, before making an investment decision. Any of the following risks, if they were to occur, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. In either event, the market price of our series B shares and ADSs could decline significantly, and you could lose all or substantially all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our results of operations are significantly influenced by the cyclical nature of steel industry. The steel industry is highly cyclical and sensitive to regional and global macroeconomic conditions. Global demand for steel as well as global production capacity levels significantly influence prices for our products, and changes in global demand or supply for steel in the future will likely impact our results of operations. The steel industry has suffered in the past, especially during downturn cycles, from substantial over-capacity. Currently, as a result of the recent global economic recession and the increase in steel production capacity in recent years, there are signs of excess capacity in steel markets, which is impacting the profitability of the steel industry. Global steel prices increased significantly during 2004, fell in 2005, increased again in first three quarters of 2006, then weakened in the last quarter of 2006 and in 2007 remained similar to prices in 2006. In 2008, global steel prices increased during the first three quarters of 2008, but weakened significantly in the last quarter of 2008 and 2009 as a result of the global economic recession. In 2010, 2011 and 2012, global steel prices began to recover and then remained relatively stable. Global steel prices decreased in 2013 and 2014. We cannot give you any assurance as to prices of steel in the future. We may not be able to pass along price increases for raw materials to our customers to compensate for fluctuations in price and supply. Prices for raw materials necessary for production of our steel products have fluctuated significantly in the past and significant increases in raw material prices could adversely affect our gross profit. During periods when prices for scrap metal, iron ore, ferroalloys, coke and other raw materials have increased, our industry has historically sought to maintain profit margins by passing along increased raw materials costs to customers by means of price increases. For example, prices of scrap metal increased approximately 21% in 2011, in 2012 increased approximately 1%, in 2013 decreased approximately 6% and in 2014 increased approximately 7%; prices of ferroalloys increased approximately 10% in 2011, in 2012 and 2013 decreased approximately 10% and 5%, respectively, and in 2014 increased approximately 16%. As with other raw materials, iron ore and coke prices fluctuated significantly; however, in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 we did not purchase iron ore pellets or coke since our Lorain, Ohio blast furnace facility, which is our only facility that utilizes these materials, was idle during this period. We may not be able to pass along these and other cost increases in the future and, therefore, our profitability may be materially and adversely affected. Even when we can successfully increase our prices, interim reductions in profit margins frequently occur due to a time lag between the increase in raw material prices and the market acceptance of higher selling prices for finished steel products. We cannot assure you that our customers will agree to pay increased prices for our steel products that compensate us for increases in our raw material costs. 5 We purchase our raw material requirements either in the open market or from certain key suppliers. Both scrap metal and ferroalloy prices are negotiated on a monthly basis with our suppliers and are subject to market conditions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to find suppliers of these raw materials in the open market, that the prices of these materials will not increase or that the quality will remain the same. In addition, if any of our key suppliers fails to deliver or we fail to renew our supply contracts, we could face limited access to some raw materials, or higher costs and delays resulting from the need to obtain our raw materials requirements from other suppliers. The energy costs involved in our production processes are subject to fluctuations that are beyond our control and could significantly increase our costs of production. Our production processes are dependent on adequate supplies of electricity and natural gas. A substantial increase in the cost of electricity or natural gas could have a material adverse effect on our gross profit. In addition, a disruption or curtailment in supply could have a material adverse effect on our production and sales. Prices for electricity increased approximately 11% in 2011, 3% in 2012, 9% in 2013 and 7% in 2014; and prices for natural gas decreased approximately 14% in 2011 and 32% in 2012 and increased approximately 16% and 25% in 2013 and 2014, respectively. Moreover, energy costs constitute a significant and increasing component of our costs of operations; energy cost as a percentage of the manufacturing conversion cost was 14% compared to 13% for 2013, 11% for 2012 and 12% for 2011. The Mexican government is currently the only supplier of energy in Mexico and has, in some cases, increased prices above international levels. We, like all other high volume users of electricity in Mexico, pay special rates to the Mexican federal electricity commission (Comisión Federal de Electricidad or “CFE”) for electricity. We also pay special rates to Pemex, Gas y Petroquímica Básica, (“PEMEX”), the national oil company, for natural gas used at our facilities in Mexico. We cannot assure you that these special rates will continue to be available to us or that these rates may not increase significantly in the future. In the United States, we have contracts in place with special rates from the electric utilities. We cannot assure you that these special rates will continue to be available to us or that these rates may not increase significantly in the future. In certain deregulated electric markets in the United States, we have third party electric generation contracts under a fixed price arrangement. These contracts mitigate our price risk for electric generation from the volatility in the electric markets. In addition, we purchase natural gas from various suppliers in the United States and Canada. These purchase prices are generally established as a function of monthly New York Mercantile Exchange settlement prices. We also contract with different natural gas transportation and storage companies to deliver the natural gas to our facilities. In addition, we enter into futures contracts to fix and reduce volatility of natural gas prices both in Mexico and the United States, as appropriate. As of December 31, 2014, we have not entered into derivative financial instruments in Mexico and the United States. We have not always been able to pass the effect of increases in our energy costs on to our customers and we cannot assure you that we will be able to pass the effect of these increases on to our customers in the future. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain futures contracts to reduce volatility in natural gas prices. Changes in the price or supply of electricity or natural gas would materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We face significant competition from other steel producers, which may adversely affect our profitability and market share. Competition in the steel industry is significant. Competition in the steel industry exerts a downward pressure on prices, and, due to high start-up costs, the economics of operating a steel mill on a continuous basis may encourage mill operators to establish and maintain high levels of output even in times of low demand, which further decreases prices and profit margins. The recent trend of consolidation in the global steel industry may further increase competitive pressures on independent producers of our size, particularly if large steel producers formed through consolidations, which have access to greater resources than us, adopt predatory pricing strategies that decrease prices and profit margins. If we are unable to remain competitive with these producers, our profitability and market share would likely be materially and adversely affected. A number of our competitors in Mexico, the United States and Canada have undertaken modernization and expansion plans, including the installation of production facilities and manufacturing capacity for certain products that compete with our products. As these producers become more efficient, we will face increased competition from 6 them and may experience a loss of market share. In each of Mexico, the United States and Canada we also face competition from international steel producers. Increased international competition, especially when combined with excess production capacity, would likely force us to lower our prices or to offer increased services at a higher cost to us, which could materially reduce our profit margins. Competition from other materials could significantly reduce demand and market prices for steel products. In many applications, steel competes with other materials that may be used as steel substitutes, such as aluminum (particularly in the automobile industry), cement, composites, glass, plastic and wood. Additional substitutes for steel products could significantly reduce demand and market prices for steel products and thereby affect our results of operations. A sudden slowdown in consumption in or increase in exports from China could have a significant impact on international steel prices affecting our profitability. As demand for steel has surged in China, steel production capacity in that market has also increased, and China is now the largest worldwide steel producing country, accounting for approximately half of the worldwide steel production. Due to the size of the Chinese steel market, a slowdown in steel consumption in that market could cause a sizable increase in the volume of steel offered in the international steel markets, exerting a downward pressure on sales and margins of steel companies operating in other markets and regions, including us. Implementing our growth strategy, which may include additional acquisitions, may adversely affect our operations. As part of our growth strategy, we may seek to expand our existing facilities, build additional plants, acquire steel production assets, enter into joint ventures or form strategic alliances that we expect will expand or complement our existing business. If we undertake any of these transactions, they will likely involve some or all of the following risks: · disruption of our ongoing business; · diversion of our resources and of management’s time; · decreased ability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; · difficulty managing the operations of a larger company; · increased likelihood of involvement in labor, commercial or regulatory disputes or litigation related to the new enterprise; · potential liability to joint venture participants or to third parties; · difficulty competing for acquisitions and other growth opportunities with companies having greater financial resources; and · difficulty integrating the acquired operations and personnel into our existing business. We will require significant capital for acquisitions and other strategic plans, as well as for the maintenance of our facilities and compliance with environmental regulations. We may not be able to fund our capital requirements from operating cash flow and we may be required to issue additional equity or debt securities or obtain additional credit facilities, which could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. We cannot assure you that adequate equity or debt financing would be available to us on favorable terms or at all. If we are unable to fund our capital requirements, we may not be able to implement our growth strategy. 7 We intend to continue to pursue a growth strategy, the success of which will depend in part on our ability to acquire and integrate additional facilities. Some of these acquisitions may be outside of Mexico, the United States and Canada. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, in addition to those described above, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, including the assumption of legacy liabilities and the potential loss of key employees. We cannot assure you that any acquisition we make will not materially and adversely affect us or that any such acquisition will enhance our business. We are unable to predict the likelihood of any additional acquisitions being proposed or completed in the near future or the terms of any such acquisitions. We and our auditors have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, for each of the last five years, and if we fail to remediate these material weaknesses and achieve an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately, and current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our Series B shares or the ADSs. In connection with the preparation of our financial statements as of and for each of the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014, we and our auditors identified material weaknesses (as defined under standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, (United States of America)) in our internal controls over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2010. On July 12, 2011, our external auditors issued a report that concluded that we do not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting with respect to our financial statements as of December 31, 2010 and identified the following material weaknesses: · there were significant deficiencies in our entity-level controls and control environment that could affect the effectiveness of the internal controls and which together constitute a material weakness; · the structure of our finance department proved to be insufficient insofar as it did not allow for adequate segregation of duties with respect to the supervision and review procedures and the total accounting errors adjusted for this matter were considered material to our consolidated financial statements for 2010; · the preparation of consolidated financial information was carried out through the use of electronic Excel sheets and a partially integrated system which relied on the use of different software by various subsidiaries, rather than through a company-wide, integrated consolidation system; and · the structure of the finance department of our subsidiary SimRep Corporation (“SimRep”) was also found to be insufficient to reconcile certain balance sheet accounts at the detailed level and did not allow for adequate segregation of duties with respect to the supervision and review procedures for the reconciliation of prepaid balances and the closing of their financial statements. Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2011. On January 12, 2012, our audit and corporate practices committee (“Audit Committee”) received a formal complaint from the General Accounting and Treasury Services Manager of Republic Engineered Products, Inc. (“Republic”), stating that he had identified, during his review of the financial statements of SimRep and its subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 2011, what he considered to be material accounting errors, and potential “management override of internal controls” at SimRep. In response, our Audit Committee instructed our internal audit department to perform a review, and subsequently engaged outside counsel to conduct an internal investigation concerning the accounting matters and potential management overrides of internal controls at SimRep. As a result of our investigation, we have identified material weakness at SimRep, finding that, with respect to SimRep and its subsidiaries, management did not design and maintain effective controls relating to the year-end closing and financial reporting process, resulting in accounting errors with respect to the reconciliation of certain balance sheet accounts, and a failure to timely review and control the preparation and closing of SimRep’s consolidated financial statements. In addition, SimRep also had insufficient personnel resources 8 and technical accounting and reporting expertise to appropriately address certain accounting and financial reporting matters in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In addition, our external auditors notified our management that, during their audit of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011, it identified what it considered to be, under standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting: ·Significant deficiencies were detected regarding entity-level controls and control environment which, in the aggregate, constitute a material weakness, and which include (i) ineffective controls in the patents registry; (ii) inadequate resources and inadequate distribution of duties among personnel, resulting in too many functions centralized among too few personnel; (iii) out-of-date accounting and human resources policies and information technology procedures, and a lack of proper monitoring of the foregoing; (iv) a lack of adequate implementation of our ethical code; (v) failure to integrate all control processes into an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system; (vi) a lack of an accounting manual (including instructions on accounting recordkeeping) for the entire company; (vii) failure to create and implement a training plan for management personnel preparing financial records; and (viii) failure of audit personnel to report periodically to the Audit Committee in order to monitor the remediation procedures previously adopted with respect to previous accounting periods; ·A lack of appropriate accounting resources, which led to inadequate supervision and controls within the accounting department and therefore prejudiced the financial statement closing process, the deferred income tax process and the conversion of foreign subsidiaries process, resulting in material accounting errors; ·A lack of an appropriate consolidation system to allow management to supervise properly the preparation of consolidated financial information. Financial information of subsidiaries was presented at a level of detail that was insufficient to allow for a clear and precise understanding of operations; and ·A lack of appropriate accounting resources at SimRep, which led to material weaknesses with respect to SimRep’s internal controls over financial reporting, which resulted in material corrections to its consolidated financial statements. Such material weaknesses included: (i) a lack of proper controls to reconcile certain balance sheet accounts at a detailed level, including certain accounts payable debit balances that could not be substantiated, resulting in audit adjustments; (ii) financial close control failure due to lack of timely review of monthly financial statements; (iii) a necessity to perform several reclassifications to basic financial statements and adjustments to the footnotes after the auditors’ review of such financial statements; and (iv) a lack of appropriate expertise at SimRep to address technical accounting and financial reporting matters. ·Significant deficiencies were detected also on our subsidiary Corporación Aceros DM, S.A. de C.V. which, in the aggregate, constitute a material weakness, these significant deficiencies include (i) lack of physical inventory of fixed assets; (ii) lack of proper segregation of duties analysis and authorization of personnel access to main information systems (iii) lack of evidence of reconciliation of physical and accounting information of raw material inventory; (iv) lack of evidence of review of interim financial statements; and (v) failure to document and communicate adequately responsibilities and authority of key financial roles. Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2012. In our assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2012, we and our external auditors identified the following material weaknesses: ·Significant deficiencies were detected regarding entity-level controls and control environment which, in the aggregate, constitute a material weakness, and which include: (i) failure to keep all our policies and procedures, including IFRS accounting policies, updated; (ii) limited IFRS 9 understanding within our Internal Audit department; (iii) inadequate controls in the review and approval process of the disclosures of our financial statements; (iv) poor maintenance of our whistleblower line for the Mexican subsidiaries; (v) ineffective controls in our patents registry; (vi) inadequate distribution and segregation of duties within our accounting department; (vii) deficient distribution to employees and officers of our code of ethics; (viii) failure to integrate all control processes into an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system; (ix) lack of an accounting manual with accounting instructions for our most important transactions; (x) failure to create and implement a training plan for our management personnel preparing financial records; and (xi) incomplete monitoring of certain control deficiencies identified on previous years; ·Inadequate supervision and controls within our accounting department which prejudiced the financial statement closing process, conversion of foreign subsidiaries, presentation of financial statements and assets valuation, resulting in material accounting errors; ·A lack of an appropriate consolidation system to allow our management to supervise properly the preparation of consolidated financial information with the required detail; ·Deficient and not standardized controls in SimRep related to the physical inventory counts and a very vulnerable procedure to determine costs due to manual calculations, and; ·Significant deficiencies were also detected at our subsidiary Corporación Aceros DM S.A. de C.V. which in the aggregate, constitute a material weakness, these significant deficiencies include: (i) failure to timely approve our policies and procedures to prepare financial statements in accordance with IFRS and limited knowledge of those standards, (ii) undocumented process and deficient controls in the control access to information systems, (iii) deficient controls to review and approve cost calculation of finished goods, (iv) lack of physical inventory of fixed assets; and (v) failure to document and communicate adequately responsibilities and authority of key financial roles. Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2013. In our assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2013, we and our external auditors identified the following material weaknesses: ·Significant deficiencies were detected regarding entity-level controls and control environment which, in the aggregate, constitute a material weakness, and which include: (i) inadequate controls in the review and approval process of the disclosure in the financial statements and our annual report on form 20-F, (ii) out of date whistleblower line for the Mexican subsidiaries, (iii) ineffective controls in our patents registry, (iv) inadequate distribution and segregation of duties within the accounting department in the Mexican subsidiaries, (v) deficient distribution to employees and officers of our code of ethics and poor promotion of strong control environment and internal controls, (vi) failure to integrate all control processes into an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system, (vii) lack of an accounting manual with accounting instructions for our most important transactions, (viii) lack of specific procedures to authorize and register intercompany transactions, (ix) failure to create and implement a complete training plan for our management personnel preparing financial records, (x) limited IFRS and consolidation process understanding and reduced personnel within our Internal Audit department which limited the scope of the management assessment, also the internal audit plan was not carried out in full and did not include test about risk assessment, environmental, fraud and compliance with law, and only included a limited review of the consolidated financial statements, (xi) lack of committees to review and approve all our contracts and to make risk assessments, these activities are currently executed by selected persons only, (xii) lack of a transition plan for the establishment of the new COSO 2013; and (xiii) insufficient resources to implement and follow up on the remedial measures identified in previous years for the Mexican subsidiaries due to the prevalence of such deficiencies, and informal communication of deficiencies and remediation plans; 10 ·Inadequate supervision and controls within our accounting department which prejudiced the financial statement closing process, conversion of foreign subsidiaries, presentation of financial statements, assets valuation and deferred taxes, resulting in material accounting errors; ·A lack of an appropriate consolidation system to allow our management to supervise properly the preparation of consolidated financial information with the required detail; ·Deficient and not standardized controls in SimRep related to authorization, control and accounting of capitalized expenditures and related fixed assets, and; ·Significant deficiencies were also detected at our subsidiary Corporación Aceros DM, S.A. de C.V. which in the aggregate, constitute a material weakness, these significant deficiencies include (i) incomplete procedures for the review process over financial closings; (ii) incomplete documental support for authorization and extension of customer credit lines, (iii) deficient controls in the control access to the information systems, (iv) deficient controls to review and approve inventory valuation, cost of production calculation and cost of sales computation, (v) lack of physical inventory of fixed assets; and (vi) failure to document and communicate adequately responsibilities and authority of key financial roles. Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2014. In our assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2014, we and our external auditors identified the following material weaknesses: ·Insufficient resources applied to the remediation and appropriate monitoring of internal control weaknesses, most of which were identified in previous years and continue to be unresolved. ·Inadequate distribution and segregation of duties within the accounting department in the Mexican Subsidiaries due to insufficient resources. Additionally, the internal audit staff was reduced and considered insufficient to fulfill their role. ·Significant deficiencies were detected regarding entity-level controls and control environment which, in the aggregate, constitute a material weakness, and which include: (i) inadequate controls for the definition, review and approval process of the disclosure in the financial statements and our annual report on form 20-F, (ii) non-operating and outdated whistleblower line for the Mexican subsidiaries, (iii) ineffective controls in our patents registry, (iv) deficient distribution of our code of ethics to employees and officers and poor promotion of strong control environment and internal controls in accordance with the COSO model, (v) failure to integrate all control processes into one Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system, (vi) lack of an accounting manual with accounting instructions on most of accounting records, (vii) lack of specific procedures for the approval of transactions with related parties, (viii) failure to create and implement a complete training plan for management personnel preparing financial records, (ix) limited IFRS and consolidation process understanding and reduced personnel within our Internal Audit department which limited the scope of the management assessment; the internal audit plan was not carried out in full and did not include tests about risk assessment, including environmental, fraud, compliance with laws and review of the consolidated financial statements; (x) lack of committees to review, approve and make risk assessments of all our contracts, and (xii) informal communications of deficiencies and remediation plan to the areas and managers involved. ·Inadequate supervision and controls within the accounting department which impacted the financial statement closing process, conversion of foreign subsidiaries and intercompany reconciliations, resulting in material accounting errors. ·A lack of an appropriate consolidation system to allow management to properly supervise the preparation of consolidated financial information with the detail required. 11 ·SimRep did not maintain effective controls relating to accounting of certain capital expenditures and related fixed assets were found. Lastly, the evaluation for impairments is not reasonable given actual results of such Subsidiary. ·Significant deficiencies were also detected at our subsidiary Corporación Aceros DM, S.A. de C.V. which in the aggregate, constitute a material weakness, these significant deficiencies include (i) ineffective controls and insufficient supporting documentation for closings of periods end and financial statements review and authorization; the related procedures were incomplete and do not include specific procedures to enter transactions into the general ledger, to select and apply accounting policies and have not been updated in the last 3 years, which such controls are necessary to give reasonable assurance of compliance with IFRS, (ii) no evidence of review of some account balances, such as fixed assets, sales and tax calculations by the responsible individuals; there is also no evidence of review of the financial statements by the General Manager of Corporación Aceros DM, S.A de C.V., (iii) undocumented processes and deficient controls in the access to the information systems, (iv) deficient controls to review and approve cost calculations of finish goods, period end costs and inventories and cost of sales report, (v) lack of physical inventory of fixed assets in several years; and (vi) failure to document and communicate adequately responsibilities and authority of key financial roles. See Item 15.B “Controls and Procedures—Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting – Material Weaknesses” and Item 15.C “Attestation Report of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms” and Item 15.D “Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting”. Any failure to implement and maintain the needed improvements in the controls over our financial reporting, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of these improvements in our controls, could result in a material misstatement in our annual or interim financial statements that would not be prevented or detected, or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations under applicable securities laws. Any failure to improve our internal controls to address the identified weaknesses could result in our incurring substantial liability for not having met our legal obligation and could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our Series B shares or the ADSs. Tariffs, anti-dumping and countervailing duty claims imposed in the future could harm our ability to export our products outside of Mexico, and changes in Mexican tariffs on steel imports could adversely affect the profitability and market share of our Mexican steel business. A substantial part of our operations are outside the United States, and we export products from those facilities to the United States. In the past, the U.S. government has imposed anti-dumping and countervailing duties against Mexican and other foreign steel producers, but has not imposed any such penalties against us or our products. In the first quarter of 2002, the U.S. government imposed tariffs of 15% on rebar and 30% on hot rolled bar and cold finish bar against imports of steel from all countries with the exception of Mexico, Canada, Argentina, Thailand and Turkey; in the first quarter of 2003, the tariffs were reduced to 12% on rebar and 24% on hot rolled bar and cold finish bar, and these tariffs were eliminated in late 2003, prior to their originally scheduled termination date. On October 14, 2014, the United States International Trade Commission (USITC) determined that a U.S. industry is materially injured by reason of imports of steel concrete reinforcing bar from Mexico that are sold in the United States at less than fair value and from Turkey that are subsidized by the government of Turkey. As a result of the USITC's affirmative determinations, the U.S. Department of Commerce will issue an antidumping duty order on imports of this product from Mexico and a countervailing duty order on imports of this product from Turkey. The U.S. government imposed tariffs of 66.7% against imports for rebar from Deacero, S.A.P.I de C.V. and us and tariffs of 20.58% for rebar from all other imports from producers in Mexico. In September 2001, the Mexican government imposed tariffs of 25% against imports for all products that we produce from all countries with the exception of those which have a free trade agreement with Mexico, which includes the United States. In April 2002, the Mexican government increased these tariffs to 35%. These tariffs have subsequently been reduced over time and in a range from 3% to 5% for steel products, in 2012 these tariffs were eliminated. We cannot assure you that these tariffs will not be further reduced or eliminated or that countries seeking to export steel products to Mexico will not impose similar tariffs on Mexican exports to those countries, and in 12 either case such developments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The operation of our facilities depends on good labor relations with our employees. At December 31, 2014, approximately 83% of our non-Mexican and 53% of our Mexican employees were members of unions. The compensation terms of our labor contracts are adjusted on an annual basis, and all other terms of the labor contracts are renegotiated every two years. In addition, collective bargaining agreements are typically negotiated on a facility-by-facility basis for our Mexican facilities. Any failure to reach an agreement on new labor contracts or to negotiate these labor contracts could result in strikes, boycotts or other labor disruptions. These potential labor disruptions could have a material and adverse effect on our business. Labor disruptions or significant negotiated wage increases could reduce our sales or increase our cost, and accordingly could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Operations at our Lackawanna, New York facility depend on our continuing right to use certain property and assets of an adjoining facility and the termination of any such rights would interrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The operations of our Lackawanna facility depend upon certain arrangements and understandings relating to, among other things, our use of industrial water, compressed air, sanitary sewer and electrical power. These service and utility arrangements, initially entered into with the Mittal Steel Company N.V. and its affiliates (“Mittal Steel”), were effective through April 30, 2009, at which time Mittal Steel transferred its Lackawanna plant to Tecumseh Redevelopment, Inc. (“Tecumseh”). In December 2010, Tecumseh transferred a portion of the former Mittal Steel facility to Great Lakes Industrial Development, LLC (“GLID”). Upon the transfer to GLID, we entered into a written agreement with GLID regarding the provision of compressed air to our facility. This lease assures that compressed air will be provided to our facility during the lease term (initially two years with automatic one year renewals until terminated by either party) and grants us an option to purchase the equipment at various times and at stated prices, thereby providing us some flexibility while we consider the installation of our own compressed air system at our facility. The water pump that services our plant is located on property still owned by Mittal Steel and is maintained by Mittal Steel, which also continues to furnish industrial water to us on a month-to-month basis. The electric system which services the compressed air equipment, as well as the electric system which services the GLID property, has been re-routed through our electric meter located at a substation on the adjacent GLID property. We continue to pursue a written agreement with GLID covering our use of the electric substation and related equipment on the GLID property, as well as the sanitary sewer lift station on the GLID property that serves our facility, and a truck entrance and security monitoring equipment located on the GLID property. All of these rights are essential to the use and operation of our Lackawanna facility. It is our understanding that GLID has sold or is in the process of selling a portion of its property to an unrelated third party. In the event of a termination of any of our rights, either due to a failure to negotiate a satisfactory outcome with Mittal Steel, GLID or any third party to which it sells all or part of its facility, or for any other reason, we could be required to cease all or substantially all of our operations at the Lackawanna facility. Because we produce certain types of products in our Lackawanna facility that we do not produce in our other facilities, an interruption of production at our Lackawanna facility would result in a substantial loss of revenue and could damage our relationships with customers. Our sales in the United States are concentrated and could be significantly reduced if one of our major customers reduced its purchases of our products or was unable to fulfill its financial obligations to us. Our sales in the United States are concentrated among a relatively small number of customers. Any of our major customers can stop purchasing our products or significantly reduce their purchases at any time. During 2014, 2013, 2012 and 2011, sales to our ten largest customers in the United States accounted for approximately 51.4%, 40.6%, 42.4% and 40.4% of our consolidated revenues in the United States, respectively, and approximately 23.6%, 21.1%, 18.7 and 19.5% of our total consolidated revenues, respectively. A disruption in sales to one or more of our largest customers would adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. Starting in the fourth quarter of 2008, due to the U.S. financial crisis and the ensuing worldwide economic recession, all of our top ten customers have suffered reduced demand for their products. This reduction in demand has in turn adversely affected our results of operations. 13 We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current level of sales to our largest customers or that we will be able to sell our products to other customers on terms that are favorable to us. The loss of, or substantial decrease in the amount of purchases by, or a write-off of any significant receivables from, any of our major customers would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Unanticipated problems with our manufacturing equipment and facilities could have an adverse impact on our business. Our capacity to manufacture steel products depends on the suitable operation of our manufacturing equipment, including blast furnaces, electric arc furnaces, continuous casters, reheating furnaces and rolling mills. Breakdowns requiring significant time and/or resources to repair, as well as the occurrence of unexpected adverse events, such as fires, explosions or adverse meteorological conditions, could cause production interruptions that could adversely affect our results of operations. We have not obtained insurance against all risks, and do not maintain insurance covering losses resulting from catastrophes or business interruptions. In the event we are not able to quickly and cost-effectively remedy problems creating any significant interruption of our manufacturing capabilities, our operations could be adversely affected. In addition, in the event any of our plants were destroyed or significantly damaged or its production capabilities otherwise significantly decreased, we would likely suffer significant losses, and capital investments necessary to repair any destroyed or damaged facilities or machinery would adversely affect our profitability, liquidity and financial condition. If we are unable to obtain or maintain quality and environmental management certifications for our facilities, we may lose existing customers and fail to attract new customers. Most of our automotive parts customers in Mexico and the United States require that we have ISO 9001, TS 16949 and ISO 14001 certification. All of the Mexican and U.S. facilities that sell to automotive parts customers are currently certified, as required. If the foregoing certifications are canceled, if approvals are withdrawn or if necessary additional standards are not obtained in a timely fashion, our ability to continue to serve our targeted market, retain our customers or attract new customers may be impaired. For example, our failure to maintain these certifications could cause customers to refuse shipments which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We cannot assure you of our future compliance. In the SBQ market, all participants must satisfy quality audits and obtain certifications in order to obtain the status of “approved supplier.” The automotive industry has put these stringent conditions in place for the production of auto parts to assure a vehicle’s quality and safety. We currently are an approved supplier for our automotive parts customers. Maintaining these certifications is key to preserving our market share, because they can be a barrier to entry in the SBQ market, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. In the event of environmental violations at our facilities we may incur significant liabilities. Our operations are subject to a broad range of environmental laws and regulations regulating our impact on air, water, soil and groundwater and exposure to hazardous substances. The costs of complying with, and the imposition of liabilities pursuant to, environmental laws and regulation can be significant. Despite our efforts to comply with environmental laws and regulations, environmental incidents or events that negatively affect the operations of our facilities may occur. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will at all times operate in compliance with environmental laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we may be assessed fines or penalties, be required to make large expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations, or be forced to shut down non-compliant operations and face lawsuits by third parties. In addition, environmental laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent and it is possible that future laws and regulations may require us to undertake material environmental compliance expenditures and require modifications in our operations. Furthermore, we need to maintain existing and obtain future environmental permits in order to operate our facilities. The failure to obtain necessary permits or consents or the loss of any permits could result in significant fines or penalties or prevent us from operating our facilities. We may also be subject, from time to time, to legal proceedings brought by private parties or governmental agencies with respect to environmental matters, including matters 14 involving alleged property damage or personal injury that could result in significant liability. Certain of our facilities in the United States have been the subject of administrative action by federal, state and local environmental authorities. See Item 8. “Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” Greenhouse gas policies and regulations, particularly any binding restriction on emissions of greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, could negatively impact our steelmaking operations. Our integrated steel making operation at Republic’s Lorain, Ohio facility involves carbon and generates significant amounts of carbon dioxide (CO2), while our other steel making operations in the United States and in Mexico use electric arc furnaces where carbon dioxide generation is primarily linked to energy use. In the United States, the Environmental Protection Agency has issued rules imposing inventory and reporting obligations to which some of our facilities are subject, and has also issued rules that will affect preconstruction permits for our facilities where increases in greenhouse gas pollutants are contemplated. The U.S. Congress has debated various measures for regulating greenhouse gas emission (such as carbon dioxide) and may enact them in the future. Such laws and regulations may also result in higher costs for coking coal, natural gas and electricity generated by carbon-based systems (such as coal-fired electric generating facilities). Canada’s federal government is also considering various approaches for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, although we do not presently believe Republic’s Hamilton, Ontario facility would be significantly impacted by these efforts since it is not a steel-producing facility. Such future laws and regulations, whether in the form of cap-and-trade emissions permit system, a carbon tax or other regulatory regime may have a negative effect on our operations. Additionally, international negotiations to supplement and eventually replace the 1997 Kyoto Protocol are ongoing. The outcome of these negotiations or whether any of the countries in which we operate will sign on to any resulting agreement is unknown. More stringent greenhouse gas policies and regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we are required to remediate contamination at our facilities we may incur significant liabilities. Certain of our U.S. facilities are currently engaged in the investigation and/or remediation of environmental contamination. Most of these investigations relate to legacy activities by prior owners. We may in the future be subject to similar investigations or required to undertake similar remediation measures at other facilities. We recognize a liability for environmental remediation when it becomes probable that such remediation will be required and the amount can be reasonably estimated. As estimated costs to remediate change, or when new liabilities become probable, we adjust the record liabilities accordingly. However, due to the numerous variables associated with the judgments and assumptions that are part of these estimates and changes in governmental regulations and environmental technologies over time, we cannot assure you that our environmental reserves will be adequate to cover such liabilities or that our environmental expenditures will not differ significantly from our estimates or materially increase in the future. Failure to comply with any legal obligations requiring remediation of contamination could result in liabilities, imposition of cleanup liens and fines, and we could incur large expenditures to bring our facilities into compliance. We could incur losses due to product liability claims and may be unable to maintain product liability insurance on acceptable terms, if at all. We could experience losses from defects or alleged defects in our steel products that subject us to claims for monetary damages. For example, many of our products are used in automobiles and light trucks and it is possible that a defect in one of these vehicles would result in product liability claims against us. In accordance with normal commercial sales, some of our products include implied warranties that they are free from defects, are suitable for their intended purposes and meet certain agreed upon manufacturing specifications. We cannot assure you that future product liability claims will not be brought against us, that we will not incur liability in excess of our insurance coverage, or that we will be able to maintain product liability insurance with adequate coverage levels and on acceptable terms, if at all. Our controlling shareholder, Industrias CH, S.A.B. DE C.V., (Industrias CH) is able to exert significant influence on our business and policies and its interests may differ from those of other shareholders. As of March 31, 2015, Industrias CH, which the chairman of our board of directors, Rufino Vigil González, controls, owned approximately 85% of our shares. Industrias CH nominated and elected all of the current members 15 of our board of directors, and Industrias CH is in a position to exercise substantial influence and control over our business and policies, including the timing and payment of dividends. The interests of Industrias CH may differ significantly from those of other shareholders. Furthermore, as a result of the significant equity position of Industrias CH, there is currently limited liquidity in our series B shares and the ADSs. We have had a number of transactions with our affiliates. Historically, we have engaged in a number and variety of transactions on market terms with affiliates, including entities that Industrias CH owns or controls. We expect that in the future we will continue to enter into transactions with our affiliates, and some of these transactions may be significant. We depend on our senior management and their unique knowledge of our business and of the SBQ industry, and we may not be able to replace key executives if they leave. We depend on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. Our senior management has significant experience in the steel industry, and the loss of any member of senior management or our inability to attract and retain additional senior management could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. We believe that the SBQ steel market is a niche market where specific industry experience is key to success. We depend on the knowledge of our business and the SBQ industry of our senior management team, including Luis Garcia Limon, our chief executive officer. In addition, we attribute much of the success of our growth strategy to our ability to retain most of the key senior management personnel of the companies and businesses that we have acquired. Competition for qualified personnel is significant, and we may not be able to find replacements with sufficient knowledge of, and experience in, the SBQ industry for our existing senior management or any of these individuals if their services are no longer available. Our business could be adversely affected if we cannot attract or retain senior management or other necessary personnel. Our tax liability may increase if the tax laws and regulations in countries in which we operate change or become subject to adverse interpretations. Taxes payable by companies in the countries in which we operate are substantial and include income tax, value-added tax, excise duties, profit taxes, payroll related taxes, property taxes and other taxes. Tax laws and regulations in some of these countries may be subject to change, varying interpretation and inconsistent enforcement. Ineffective tax collection systems and continuing budget requirements may increase the likelihood of the imposition of onerous taxes and penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the usual tax burden imposed on taxpayers, these conditions create uncertainty as to the tax implications of various business decisions. This uncertainty could expose us to significant fines and penalties and to enforcement measures despite our best efforts at compliance, and could result in a greater than expected tax burden. In addition, many of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including Mexico, have adopted transfer pricing legislation. If tax authorities impose significant additional tax liabilities as a result of transfer pricing adjustments, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. It is possible that tax authorities in the countries in which we operate will introduce additional revenue raising measures. The introduction of any such provisions may affect our overall tax efficiency and may result in significant additional taxes becoming payable. Any such additional tax exposure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Challenging Global Economic Conditions Global economic conditions, such as the recent financial crisis and economic recession that occurred during 2008 and 2009, may continue to significantly impact our business. The financial crisis that began in the United States in 2008 led to a global recession in which overall economic activity decreased across the world generally and in North America in particular. The corresponding reduction in demand across the economy in general and in the automotive, construction and manufacturing sectors in particular has reduced demand for steel products in North America and globally. These economic conditions significantly impacted our business and results of operations. Although demand, production levels and prices in 16 certain segments and markets have recovered and stabilized to a certain degree, the extent, timing and duration of the recovery and potential return to pre-crisis levels remains uncertain. If global macroeconomic conditions deteriorate, however, the outlook for steel producers would be adversely affected. It is difficult to predict the duration or severity of a new global economic downturn, or to what extent it will affect us. An unsustainable recovery and persistently weak economic conditions in our key markets could depress demand for our products and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, in 2009, the decreased demand in the construction sector had a negative impact on our San Luis facilities, since these facilities produce mostly rebar and mesh. Under MFRS, when assessing the recoverability of the goodwill and other intangibles, we must make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors to determine the fair value of the respective assets. As of December 31, 2009, this reporting unit did not exceed its respective carrying value; therefore, we determined there was an impairment of goodwill in the amount of Ps. 2,368 million in the Grupo San unit. Assumptions used in the analysis considered the market conditions in developing short and long-term growth expectations. If global economic conditions deteriorate, we may be required to undertake additional asset impairments. Our end-product markets have been severely affected by the recent global recession. We sell our products to the automotive and construction-related industries, both of which have reported substantially lower customer demand due to the recent global recession. As a result, our operating levels declined and will remain at depressed levels, compared to pre-recession levels, until demand in end-product markets increases. While some of our end-product markets, such as the automotive industry, experienced recoveries during 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 others, such as the construction industry, remain depressed. In addition to slackening demand by end consumers, we believe that some of our customers are experiencing difficulty in obtaining credit or maintaining their ability to qualify for trade credit insurance, resulting in a further reduction in purchases and an increase in our credit risk exposure. The trajectory of the recovery of these industries may have a significant impact on our results of operations. We may face increased risks of customer and supplier defaults. There is an increased risk of insolvency and other credit related issues of our customers, particularly those in industries that were hard hit by the recent recession, such as automotive, construction and appliance. Also, there is the possibility that our suppliers may face similar risks. This decrease in available credit may increase the risk of our customers defaulting on their payment obligations to us and may cause some of our suppliers to be delayed in filling or to be unable to fill our needs. Because a significant portion of our sales are to the automotive industry, a decrease in automotive manufacturing could reduce our cash flows and adversely affect our results of operations. Direct sales of products to automotive assemblers and manufacturers accounted for approximately 43% of our net sales of SBQ in 2014. Demand for our products is affected by, among other things, the relative strength or weakness of the North American automotive industry. A reduction in vehicles manufactured in North America, the principal market for Republic’s SBQ steel products, would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We also sell to independent forgers, components suppliers and steel service centers, all of which sell to the automotive market as well as other markets. Developments affecting the North American automotive industry may adversely affect us. Our customers in the automotive industry continually seek to obtain price reductions from us, which may adversely affect our results of operations. A challenge that we and other suppliers of intermediary products used in the manufacture of automobiles face is continued price reduction pressure from our customers in the automobile manufacturing business. Downward pricing pressure has been a characteristic of the automotive industry in recent years and it is migrating to all our vehicular markets. Virtually all automobile manufacturers have aggressive price reduction initiatives that they impose upon their suppliers, and such actions are expected to continue in the future. In the face of lower prices to 17 customers, we must continue to reduce our operating costs in order to maintain profitability. We have taken and continue to take steps to reduce our operating costs to offset customer price reductions; however, price reductions are adversely affecting our profit margins and are expected to do so in the future. If we are unable to offset customer price reductions through improved operating efficiencies, new manufacturing processes, sourcing alternatives, technology enhancements and other cost reduction initiatives, or if we are unable to avoid price reductions from our customers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Sales may fall as a result of fluctuations in industry inventory levels. Inventory levels of steel products held by companies that purchase our products can vary significantly from period to period. These fluctuations can temporarily affect the demand for our products, as customers draw from existing inventory during periods of low investment in construction and the other industry sectors that purchase our products and accumulate inventory during periods of high investment and, as a result, these companies may not purchase additional steel products or maintain their current purchasing volume. Accordingly, we may not be able to increase or maintain our current levels of sales volumes or prices. Risks Related to Mexico Adverse economic conditions in Mexico may adversely affect our financial performance. A substantial portion of our operations are conducted in Mexico and our business is affected by the performance of the Mexican economy. The recent global credit crisis and the economic recession has had significant adverse consequences on the Mexican economy, which in 2009 contracted by 6.5%, in 2010 grew by 5.5%, in 2011 and 2012 grew by 3.9%, in 2013 grew by 1.1% and in 2014 grew by 2.1%, in terms of gross domestic production. Moreover, in the past, Mexico has experienced prolonged periods of economic crises, caused by internal and external factors over which we have no control. Those periods have been characterized by exchange rate instability, high inflation, high domestic interest rates, economic contraction, a reduction of international capital flows, balance of payment deficits, a reduction of liquidity in the banking sector and high unemployment rates. Decreases in the growth rate of the Mexican economy, or periods of negative growth, or increases in inflation may result in lower demand for our products. We cannot assure you that economic conditions in Mexico will not worsen, or that those conditions will not have an adverse effect on our financial performance. Political, social and other developments in Mexico could adversely affect our business. Political, social and other developments in Mexico may adversely affect our business. Social unrest, such as strikes, suspension of labor, demonstrations, acts of violence and terrorism in the Mexican states in which we operate could disrupt our financial performance. Additionally, the Mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the economy. Accordingly, Mexican federal governmental actions and policies concerning the economy, the regulatory framework, the social or political context, and state-owned and stated controlled entities or industries could have a significant impact on private sector companies and on market conditions, prices and returns of Mexican securities. In the past, governmental actions have involved, among other measures, increases in interest rates, changes in tax policies, price controls, currency devaluations, capital controls and limits on imports. Currently, no single political party has a majority in either chamber of the Mexican Congress. The absence of a clear majority and the lack of alignment between the legislature and the administration could result in deadlock and prevent the timely implementation of political and economic reforms, which in turn could have an adverse effect on Mexican economic policy. We cannot assure you that political developments in Mexico will not have an adverse effect on our financial performance. In 2013, the Mexican Congress approved important structural reforms in the energy, financial, telecommunications and electoral sectors and in 2014 the Mexican Congress approved secondary legislation for implementation of such reforms. We cannot assure you that future political developments in Mexico, over which we have no control, will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 18 We cannot assure you that any new government policies will not adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Mexican economy. The Mexican federal government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Mexican economy. Accordingly, Mexican federal governmental actions and policies concerning the economy, state-owned enterprises and state controlled, funded or influenced financial institutions could have a significant impact on private sector entities in general and on us in particular, and on market conditions, prices and returns on securities of Mexican companies. The Mexican federal government occasionally makes significant changes in policies and regulations, and may do so again in the future. Actions to control inflation and other regulations and policies have involved, among other measures, increases in interest rates, changes in tax policies, price controls, currency devaluations, capital controls and limits on imports. Tax legislation in Mexico is subject to continuous change and we cannot assure you whether the Mexican government may maintain existing political, social, economic or other policies, or whether changes may have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Violence in Mexico may adversely impact the Mexican economy and have a negative effect on our financial performance. Mexican drug related violence and other organized crime have escalated significantly since 2006, when the Mexican federal government began increasing the use of the army and police to fight drug trafficking. Drug cartels have carried out attacks largely directed at competing drug cartels and law enforcement agents, however they also target companies and their employees, including companies’ industrial properties, including through extortion, theft from trucks or industrial sites, kidnapping and other forms of crime and violence. This increase in violence and criminal activity has led to increased costs for companies in the form of stolen products and added security and insurance. Corruption and links between criminal organizations and authorities also create conditions that affect our business operations, as well as extortion and other acts of intimidation, which may have the effect of limiting the level of action taken by federal and local governments in response to such criminal activity. We cannot assure you that the levels of violent crime in Mexico, over which we have no control, will not have an adverse effect on the country’s economy and, as a result, on our financial performance. Depreciation of the Mexican peso relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our financial performance. Depreciation of the Mexican peso relative to the U.S. dollar decreases a portion of our revenues in U.S. dollar terms, as well as increases the cost of a portion of the raw materials we require for production and any debt obligations denominated in U.S. dollars, and thereby may negatively affect our results of operations. The Mexican Central Bank may from time to time participate in the foreign exchange market to minimize volatility and support an orderly market. The Mexican Central Bank and the Mexican government have also promoted market-based mechanisms for stabilizing foreign exchange rates and providing liquidity to the exchange market, such as using over-the-counter derivatives contracts and publicly-traded futures contracts on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. However, the Peso is currently subject to significant fluctuations against the U.S. dollar and may be subject to such fluctuations in the future. Since the second half of 2008, the value of the Mexican peso relative to the U.S. dollar has fluctuated significantly. According to the U.S. Federal Reserve Board, during this period the exchange rate registered a low of Ps. 9.91 to U.S.$1.00 in August 5, 2008, and a high of Ps. 15.38 to U.S.$1.00 in March 9, 2009. In 2014 the exchange rate registered a low of Ps. 12.85 to U.S.$1.00 and a high of Ps. 14.79 to U.S.$1.00. A severe depreciation of the Mexican peso may also result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may limit our ability to transfer to convert Mexican pesos into U.S. dollars and other currencies. While the Mexican government does not currently restrict, and since 1982 has not restricted, the right or ability of Mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert Mexican pesos into U.S. dollars or to transfer other currencies out of Mexico, the Mexican government could institute restrictive exchange rate policies in the future. Currency fluctuations or restrictions on transfer of funds outside Mexico may have an adverse effect on our financial performance, and could adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of the price of our Series B shares and the ADSs. 19 High inflation rates in Mexico may affect demand for our products and result in cost increases. Mexico has historically experienced high annual rates of inflation. The annual rate of inflation, as measured by changes in the Mexican national consumer price index (Índice Nacional de Precios al Consumidor) published by the Mexican Central Bank was 3.8% for 2011, 3.6% for 2012, 4.0% for 2013 and 4.1% for 2014. High inflation rates could adversely affect our business and results of operations by reducing consumer purchasing power, thereby adversely affecting demand for our products, increasing certain costs beyond levels that we could pass on to consumers, and by decreasing the benefit to us of revenues earned if the inflation rate exceeds the growth in our pricing levels. Developments in other countries could adversely affect the Mexican economy, our financial performance and the price of our shares. The Mexican economy and the market value of Mexican companies may be, to varying degrees, affected by economic and market conditions globally, in other emerging market countries and major trading partners, in particular the United States. Although economic conditions in other countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Mexico, investors’ reactions to adverse developments in other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Mexican issuers or of Mexican assets. In recent years, for example, prices of both Mexican debt securities and equity securities decreased substantially as a result of developments in Russia, Asia and Brazil. More recently, credit issues in the United States related principally to the sale of sub-prime mortgages have resulted in significant fluctuations in global financial markets, including Mexico. In addition, in recent years economic conditions in Mexico have become increasingly correlated with economic conditions in the United States as a result of NAFTA, increased economic activity between the two countries, and the remittance of funds from Mexican immigrants working in the United States to Mexican residents. Therefore, adverse economic conditions in the United States, the termination of, or modifications to, NAFTA or other related events could have a significant adverse effect on the Mexican economy. Moreover, the current fiscal crisis in the European Union may also affect the global and Mexican economies. We cannot assure you that events in other emerging market countries, in the United States or elsewhere will not adversely affect our financial performance. We could be adversely affected by violations of the Mexican Federal Anticorruption Law in Public Contracting, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The newly-enacted Mexican Federal Anticorruption Law (Ley Federal de Anticorrupción en Contrataciones Públicas), the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials and other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. There can be no assurance that our internal control policies and procedures will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS and therefore are not comparable to financial statements of other companies prepared under U.S. GAAP or other accounting principles. Beginning January 1, 2011, we adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), and its amendments and interpretations, issued by the International Accounting Standard Board (IASB); consequently, we applied IFRS 1, Initial Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards. All Mexican companies listed on the Mexican Stock Exchange must prepare their financial statements in accordance with IFRS which differs in certain significant respects from U.S. GAAP. Items on the financial statements of a company prepared in accordance with IFRS may not reflect its financial position or results of operations in the way they would be reflected had such financial statements been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Accordingly, Mexican financial statements and reported earnings are likely to differ from those of companies in other countries in this and other respects. 20 Mexico has different corporate disclosure and accounting standards than those in the United States and other countries. A principal objective of the securities laws of the United States, Mexico and other countries is to promote full and fair disclosure of all material corporate information, including accounting information. However, there may be different or less publicly available information about issuers of securities in Mexico than is regularly made available by public companies in countries with more highly developed capital markets, including the United States. The disclosure standards imposed by the Mexican Stock Exchange may be different than those imposed by securities exchanges in other countries or regions such as the United States. Item 