Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information set forth in this Annual Report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results of operations, in evaluating our business and any investment in our common stock. In particular, the risks described below could cause actual events to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements in this Annual Report. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. 4 There is doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern for the following reasons: Our credit facility will expire on February 29, 2016. We may not be able to obtain replacement financing, which could cause us to cease operations or pursue relief under bankruptcy laws. Our primary sources of funds to meet our liquidity and capital requirements include cash on hand, funds generated from operations and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. We are in default under our credit facility and recently entered into a forbearance agreement and amendment to our credit facility with our lenders, which among other items, changed the maturity date of the credit facility to February 29, 2016. Our lenders have indicated that they will not renew our credit facility beyond that maturity date, because they intend to exit this line of business. We are seeking replacement financing, but have not yet received a commitment from any lender or investor. If we are unable to obtain replacement financing, we will not be able to repay the borrowings under our current facility on the maturity date and our lenders will be entitled to foreclose on a substantial portion of our assets, which could cause us to cease operations or pursue relief under bankruptcy laws. For additional information, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Liquidity and Capital Resources and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 1 – Organization, Liquidity and Financing, and Audit Committee Investigation. We may not have sufficient liquidity to fund our operations. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, that we will be able to find a replacement credit facility, that future borrowings will be available to us under our current or any replacement credit facilities, or that we will be able to complete any necessary financings, in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our operations or pay our debts and other obligations, or to fund our liquidity needs. New or additional financing may not be available in sufficient amounts, at times or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our existing or future debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations our lender may determine to stop making loans to us, and/or our lenders or other holders of our debt could accelerate and declare due all outstanding obligations due under the debt agreement, all of which could have a material adverse effect on us. We have a recent history of losses, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. We incurred losses from continuing operations of $28.8 million, $12.8 million, $9.3 million, $16.8 million and $8.6 million in fiscal 2014, fiscal 2013, fiscal 2012, fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010, respectively. For additional information, see Item 6. Selected Financial Data. In addition, we may incur additional losses from continuing operations in the future. Continued losses would reduce our cash available from operations to service our indebtedness, as well as limit our ability to finance our operations. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis, which could require us to raise additional capital in the future to fund our operations, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. We had a stockholders’ deficit or negative net worth as of December 31, 2014, which may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain financing in the future and may otherwise negatively impact our business. As of December 31, 2014, we had a negative net worth or stockholders’ deficit of $5.3 million. Our stockholders’ deficit primarily resulted from our 2014 net loss. As a result of our stockholders’ deficit, we may face greater difficulty and expense in obtaining future financing than we would face if we did not have a stockholders’ deficit, which may limit our ability to meet our needs for liquidity or otherwise compete effectively in the marketplace. For additional information, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 5 Our independent public accounting firm has issued an opinion that states that the factors described above raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The uncertainties described above raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The accompanying consolidated financial statements were prepared under the assumption that the Company will continue to operate as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the liquidation of liabilities in the ordinary course of business. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and the classifications of liabilities that may result if we are unable to continue as a going concern. As a result, our independent public accounting firm has issued an opinion on our consolidated financial statements that states that the consolidated financial statements were prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern. This opinion further states, among other things, that our recurring losses from operations and our liabilities in excess of our assets raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. For additional information, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. We are exposed to risks from our recently completed sale of Rio. We face certain risks from the sale of Rio. Under the Rio Agreement, Rio has assumed certain liabilities, including payables of approximately $3.2 million, and the buyers agreed to pay the $1.0 million deferred portion of the purchase price on September 15, 2016. If Rio or the buyers default on their obligations, creditors may seek to collect such liabilities and other liabilities of the Rio business from us and we will not receive the balance of the deferred purchase price, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity and on the market price of our common stock. Matters relating to or arising from our Audit Committee investigation of certain accounting matters, including regulatory proceedings, litigation matters and potential additional expenses, may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Based upon an anonymous report filed by an employee through our “whistleblower” hotline in February 2015, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company engaged our outside corporate counsel, who in turn engaged a forensic accounting firm, to investigate allegations by the whistleblower that our then Chief Financial Officer was overstating accounts receivable on the borrowing base certificates submitted to our lender, Salus Capital Partners, LLC and Salus CLO 2012-1, LTD. (collectively, “Salus”). Based on the investigation, we believe that the Chief Financial Officer was directing certain employees to delay the posting of customer payments to the accounts receivable aging report, which had the effect of overstating our accounts receivable and the available borrowing base under the Salus credit facility. Based on the investigation, we believe that the delay in posting began at the end of December 2013 and continued through February 2015, with the most significant delays occurring from November 2014 through February 2015. Due to the delays in posting, the Company submitted incorrect borrowing base certificates to Salus and thereby borrowed more than was available under the credit facility, in amounts ranging from $51,000 to $2.1 million. Further, the delays in posting and incorrect borrowing base certificates led other members of management of the Company and Salus to erroneously believe that the Company was in compliance with the availability covenant in the credit facility. The investigation did not find any evidence that the delays in posting of accounts receivable affected the reported balances of cash, accounts receivable or debt in the financial statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 or in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 29, 2014, June 28, 2014 or September 27, 2014 (collectively referred to as the “Prior Reports”). Based on the investigation and additional work subsequently performed by members of the Company’s finance department, we concluded that amounts disclosed as available for borrowing under the Salus credit facility as of the end of the respective periods covered by the Prior Reports was understated by $0.1 million in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013, overstated by $0.1 million in the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 29, 2014 and overstated by insignificant amounts with respect to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended June 28, 2014 and September 27, 2014. As a result, we did not accurately reflect our liquidity position in certain of the Prior Reports. 6 To date, we have incurred significant expenses related to legal, accounting, and other professional services in connection with the investigation and related matters, and may continue to incur significant additional expenses with regard to these matters and our remediation efforts. In addition, senior members of management have spent substantial amounts of time and effort with regard to the investigation and related matters. The significant amount of time and effort spent by our management team on these matters has diverted their attention from the operation of our business while also contributing to the delay in filing this Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 28, 2015, June 27, 2015 and September 26, 2015. The expenses incurred, and expected to be incurred, on the investigation, the restatements and related matters and the diversion of the attention of the management team that has occurred, and is expected to continue, has adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our business, financial condition and results of operations or cash flows. As a result of the accounting irregularities reported above, we are exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. While we believe that we are not required to restate our Prior Reports, the SEC may disagree with our conclusions and initiate its own investigation. Accordingly, there is a risk that we may have to restate our prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC, or take other actions not currently contemplated. In addition, there is a risk that securities class actions or other lawsuits could be filed against us, our directors and officers. Any future such investigations or lawsuits may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We identified a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, and we may be unable to develop, implement and maintain effective internal controls in future periods. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and SEC rules require that management report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures. Among other things, management must conduct an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Based on management’s assessment, we concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective as of December 31, 2014. The specific material weakness is described in Part II - Item 9A. “Controls and Procedures” of this Form 10-K in “Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.” A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements would not be prevented or detected. As with any material weakness, if our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements. Any misstatements could result in a restatement of our consolidated financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. We may be restricted in our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility. Significant operating losses or significant uses of cash in our operations could cause us to default on our credit facility. Our ability to borrow under the credit facility depends on our trade receivables and inventory levels. Significant changes in our trade receivables or inventory levels could restrict our ability to borrow funds. In addition, the credit facility includes customary conditions to funding, representations and warranties, covenants and events of default. The covenants include, among other things, limitations on asset sales, consolidations, mergers, liens, indebtedness, loans, investments, guaranties, acquisitions, dividends, stock repurchases and transactions with affiliates. Our lenders waived certain defaults in the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 and through May 22, 2015 and entered into a forbearance agreement with us with respect to certain recent defaults. Future defaults under the credit facility may not be waived and could result in an acceleration of our obligations under the agreement, in the foreclosure on any assets subject to liens in favor of the credit facility’s lenders, and in our inability to borrow additional amounts under the credit facility. 7 The apparel industry is heavily influenced by general economic cycles that affect consumer spending. A prolonged period of depressed consumer spending would have a material adverse effect on us. The apparel industry has historically been subject to cyclical variations, recessions in the general economy and uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect consumer spending habits, which could negatively impact our business. The success of our operations depends on a number of factors impacting discretionary consumer spending, including general economic conditions, consumer confidence, wages and unemployment, housing prices, consumer debt, interest rates, fuel and energy costs, taxation and political conditions. A downturn in the economy may affect consumer purchases of our products and adversely impact our growth and profitability. We use foreign suppliers for our raw materials and the manufacture of products, which poses risks to our business operations. During 2014, our Rio products were manufactured in Honduras, and almost all of our other products were produced by independent manufacturers located outside the United States. Although no single supplier is critical to our production needs, any of the following could adversely affect the production and delivery of our products and, as a result, have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: ● war or armed conflicts or political or labor instability in countries where contractors and suppliers are located; ● political or military conflict involving the United States; ● heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods; ● a significant decrease in availability or increase in cost of labor or raw materials, particularly in petroleum based synthetic fabrics; ● impact of the global economic downturn on third-party factories and their viability; ● disease epidemics and health related concerns which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces and scrutiny or embargo of goods produced in infected areas; ● imposition of regulations, quotas or duties relating to imports, which, among other things, could limit our ability to produce products in cost effective countries that have the labor force and expertise required; ● any action that may change the foreign currency exchange rate against the dollar or permit the exchange rate to float; and ● significant fluctuation of the value of the dollar as compared to other foreign currencies. The occurrence of any, some, or all of these events could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that if a disruption occurred we could replace our manufacturing capacity and/or find other manufacturing resources. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile and there has been limited trading volume in our stock, which may make it difficult for shareholders to resell common stock when they want to and at prices they find attractive. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to be highly volatile, and there has been limited trading volume in our common stock. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including the following: ● announcements of fluctuations in our operating results or failure to attain projections; ● the timing and announcement of sales or acquisitions of assets by us or our competitors; ● changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; ● adverse or unfavorable publicity about our products, customers or us; ● the commencement of material litigation or investigations, or an unfavorable verdict, against us; ● additions or departures of key personnel; and ● sales of common stock. 8 In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Such volatility has affected many companies irrespective of, or disproportionately to, the operating performance of these companies. These broad fluctuations and limited trading volume may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and your ability to sell our common stock. There may not be an established public trading market for our common stock. There is currently no established public trading market for our common stock. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTC Markets (formerly known as “Pink Sheets”) under the symbol “HAMP”. The OTC Markets is a centralized quotation service that collects and publishes market maker quotes for over-the-counter securities in real time. Over-the-counter market quotations, like those on the OTC Markets, reflect inter-dealer prices, without retail mark-up, mark-down or commission and may not necessarily represent actual transactions. Currently, we are not actively seeking to become listed on the Nasdaq Global Market or any other exchange. There can be no assurance that our common stock will again be listed on a national exchange, or that a trading market for our common stock will be established. We rely on our key customers, and a significant decrease in business from or the loss of any one of these key customers would substantially reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business. Aeropostale, Inc., Kohl’s Department Stores, Inc. and J.C. Penney Company, Inc. accounted for approximately 70% of our revenues in 2014, with Aeropostale accounting for approximately 40%. We expect that we will have little or no sales to Aeropostale after the Rio sale. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our customers and purchases generally occur on an order by order basis. A decision by any of our major customers, whether motivated by marketing strategy, competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease significantly the amount of merchandise purchased from us or to change their manner of doing business with us, could substantially reduce our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our profitability. The retail industry has, in the past several years, experienced a great deal of consolidation and other ownership changes and we expect such changes to be ongoing. In the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or re-position their stores’ target markets. Any of these types of actions could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry. These changes could decrease our opportunities in the market, increase our reliance on a smaller number of customers and decrease our negotiating strength with them. Our business has been and could continue to be adversely affected by financial instability experienced by our customers. During the past several years, various retailers have experienced significant financial difficulties, which have resulted in bankruptcies, liquidations and store closings. Over the last few years, several of our customers, including Goody’s, Mervyns, Gottschalks and Boscov’s, either reorganized or liquidated. We sell our product primarily to national and regional department stores, and vertical specialty stores in the United States on credit and evaluate each customer’s financial condition on a regular basis in order to determine the credit risk we take in selling goods to them. The financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail business with that customer and we may be unable to shift sales to another customer at comparable margins. We may also assume more credit risk relating to receivables of a customer experiencing financial instability. If these circumstances arise with respect to our customers, our inability to shift sales or to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any one of our customers could substantially reduce our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Chargebacks and margin support payments may have a material adverse effect on our business. Consistent with industry practice, we may allow customers to deduct agreed-upon amounts from the purchase price for sales allowances, co-op advertising, new store opening discounts and other marketing development funds, which in the opinion of management promotes brand awareness. In addition, margin support payments may be required due to lower than anticipated sell-through rates, which may be caused by uncontrollable factors, such as general economic conditions, changing fashion trends and weather conditions, as well as controllable factors, such as wholesale prices, design, merchandising and the quality of our goods. These deductions have a dilutive effect on our business and results of operations since they reduce overall gross profit margins on sales. If our efforts to reduce our margin support are unsuccessful, we will likely continue to experience significant levels of chargebacks and margin support payments, which may further reduce our gross profit and result in a material adverse effect on our business. 9 We are dependent upon the revenues generated by our licensing alliances and the loss or inability to renew certain licenses could reduce our revenue and consequently reduce our gross profit. We license brands from third parties for specific products. The term of each of our licenses is generally three years or less. We may not be able to renew or extend these licenses on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to renew or extend any one of these licenses, we could experience a decrease in net sales. We may not be able to anticipate consumer preferences and fashion trends, which could negatively affect acceptance of our products by retailers and consumers and result in a significant decrease in net sales. Our failure to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion trends could adversely affect acceptance of our products by retailers and consumers and may result in a significant decrease in net sales or leave us with a substantial amount of unsold inventory. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. We may not be able to continue to develop appealing styles or successfully meet constantly changing consumer demands in the future. In addition, any new products or brands that we introduce may not be received successfully by retailers and consumers. If our products are not received successfully by retailers and consumers and we are left with a substantial amount of unsold inventory, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess inventory. If this occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If our manufacturers fail to use acceptable ethical business practices, our business could be adversely affected. We require our manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. However, we do not control the labor and other business practices of the independent manufacturers of our products. If one of our manufacturers violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the United States, the shipment of products to us could be interrupted and our reputation could be damaged. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business could be harmed if we do not deliver quality products in a timely manner. Our sourcing, logistics and technology functions operate within substantial production and delivery requirements and subject us to the risks associated with unaffiliated manufacturers, transportation and other factors. If we do not comply with customer product requirements or meet their delivery requirements, our customers could seek reduced purchase prices, require significant margin support, reduce the amount of business they do with us or cease to do business with us, all of which would adversely affect our business. If we encounter problems with our distribution system, our ability to deliver our products to the market would be adversely affected. We rely on third-party distribution facilities to warehouse and to ship product to our customers. Due to the fact that substantially all of our products are distributed from a relatively small number of locations, our operations could be interrupted by earthquakes, floods, fires or other natural disasters at or near our distribution centers. We maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from the loss of customers. In addition, our distribution capacity is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including transportation of product to and from distribution facilities. If we encounter problems with our distribution system, our inability to meet customer expectations on managing inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies could have a material adverse effect on our business. 10 Labor disruptions at ports or our suppliers’ facilities, manufacturers’ facilities or distribution facilities may adversely affect our business. Our business depends on our ability to source and distribute product in a timely manner. As a result, we rely on the free flow of goods on a consistent basis from our suppliers and manufacturers. Labor disputes at various ports or at our suppliers, manufacturers or our distribution facilities create significant risks for our business, particularly if these disputes result in work slowdowns, lockouts, strikes or other disruptions during our peak importing or manufacturing seasons. For example, in the first quarter of 2015, labor issues, related slowdowns and bottlenecks at West Coast shipping ports stranded thousands of our finished garments on cargo ships that were unable to dock and unload, preventing the Company from delivering these products and recognizing the associated sales. An interruption in the flow of goods could have a material adverse effect on our business, potentially resulting in cancelled orders by customers, unanticipated inventory accumulation or shortages and reduced net sales, gross profit and liquidity. We rely significantly on information technology and any failure, inadequacy, interruption or security lapse of that technology could adversely affect our ability to effectively operate our business. Our ability to manage and maintain our inventory and internal reports and to ship products to customers and invoice them on a timely basis depends significantly on our internally developed enterprise resource planning system, as approximately 50% of our orders are received electronically. The failure of our existing systems or new systems to operate effectively or to integrate with other systems or a breach in security of any of our systems could cause delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, and it could require significant capital investments to remedy any such failure, problem or breach. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry and our failure to compete successfully could result in a loss of one or more significant customers. The apparel industry is highly competitive and fragmented. Our competitors include numerous apparel designers, manufacturers, retailers, importers and licensors, many of which have greater financial and marketing resources than we possess. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the apparel industry are: ● brand name and brand identity; ● timeliness, reliability and quality of product and services provided; ● market share and visibility; ● price; and ● the ability to anticipate customer and consumer demands. The level of competition and the nature of our competitors vary by product segment with low margin manufacturers being our main competitors in the less expensive segment of the market and with domestic and foreign designers and licensors competing with us in the more upscale segment of the market. Increasingly, we experience competition from our customers’ in-house private labels. If we do not maintain our brand names and identities and continue to provide high-quality and reliable services on a timely basis at competitive prices, our ability to compete in our industry will be adversely affected. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose one or more of our significant customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and financial performance. We may face challenges in the management of the sales and profitability of any acquisitions that we may make, as well as in integrating the acquired businesses, any of which may negatively impact our business. As part of our growth strategy, we have acquired and licensed, and in the future, may acquire or license new brands and product categories. We may also make strategic acquisitions, such as the 2014 acquisition of James Campbell. Acquisitions have inherent risks, including the risk that the projected sales and net income from the acquisition may not be generated, the risk that the integration of the acquired business is more costly and takes longer than anticipated, the risk of diversion of the attention and resources of management, risks associated with additional customer concentration and related credit risk, risks of retaining key personnel and risks associated with unanticipated events and unknown legal liabilities despite the due diligence efforts that we undertake. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business. 11 We may be required to record impairment charges with respect to our goodwill and acquired intangible assets. When we acquire a business, a portion of the purchase price of the acquisition may be allocated to goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. We conduct an annual review, and more frequent reviews if events or circumstances dictate, to determine whether goodwill is impaired. We also determine whether impairment indicators are present related to our identifiable intangible assets. If we determine that goodwill or other intangible assets are impaired, we are required to write down the carrying value of these assets. In connection with our annual goodwill impairment evaluation as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, we determined that the Rio reporting unit’s goodwill was impaired and, as a result, we recorded non-cash goodwill impairment charges of approximately $0.5 million and $2.1 million in the fourth quarters of 2014 and 2013, respectively. We also determined that the intangible assets of Rio, consisting of customer relationships and a non-compete agreement, were impaired and we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of approximately $11.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2014. As of December 31, 2014, our goodwill and other intangible assets totaled approximately $1.7 million. For additional information, see Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 6 – Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net. If we determine that our goodwill or other intangible assets are impaired in future periods, we will be required to record additional impairment charges, which would be recorded as operating expenses and negatively affect our reported results of operations. The ultimate resolution of income and other possible tax liabilities may require us to incur expense beyond amounts reserved on our balance sheet or make cash payments beyond those that we anticipated. The ultimate resolution of income and other possible tax liabilities may require us to incur expense beyond amounts reserved on our balance sheet or make cash payments beyond those that we anticipated. Our historic income and other tax positions may be challenged by the appropriate taxing authorities. We believe that we have provided adequate reserves for these tax positions for all periods open under the applicable statutes of limitations, but a challenge by a taxing authority could prove costly to defend as well as to resolve. If the actual liability for taxes exceeds our reserves, earnings could be materially adversely affected, and we may be required to make cash payments beyond what we anticipated. Utilization of our net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards may be subject to substantial annual limitations due to the ownership change limitations provided by the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”) Section 382. Such annual limitations could result in the expiration of our net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards before their utilization. The events that may cause ownership changes include, but are not limited to, a cumulative stock ownership change of greater than 50% over a three year period. Calculating whether an ownership change has occurred is subject to uncertainty, both because of the complexity of Section 382 of the Code and because of limitations on a publicly-traded company’s knowledge as to the ownership of, and transactions in, its securities. Therefore, the calculation of the amount of our net operating loss carryforwards may be changed as a result of a challenge by a governmental authority or our learning of new information about the ownership of, and transactions in, our securities. Significant changes to international trade regulations could adversely affect our results of operations. Our products are subject to foreign competition, which in the past has been faced with significant U.S. government import restrictions. The extent of import protection afforded to domestic apparel producers has been, and is likely to remain, subject to political considerations. The elimination of import protections for domestic apparel producers could significantly increase global competition, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, any failure to comply with international trade regulations could cause us to become subject to investigation resulting in significant penalties or claims or an inability to conduct our business, adversely affecting our results of operations. We are dependent on certain key personnel, the loss of whom could negatively impact our ability to manage our business and thereby adversely affect our business. Our future success depends to a significant extent on retaining the services of key executive officers, other key members of management and directors. The loss of the services of any one of these individuals, or any other key member of management, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not have “key person” life insurance policies for any of our management. 12 Global economic, political and social conditions may harm our ability to do business, increase our costs and negatively affect our stock price. Global credit and financial markets have experienced extreme disruptions in recent years, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates and uncertainty about economic stability. While the decline in consumer spending and the higher unemployment rates have recently moderated, these economic conditions could still lead to continued declines in consumer spending and may have resulted in a resetting of consumer spending habits that makes it unlikely that such spending will return to prior levels for the foreseeable future which in turn may lead to further decreases in our net sales or a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial position and cash flows. Economic conditions have also led to a highly promotional environment and strong discounting pressure from our customers, which have had a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. This promotional environment may continue even after economic growth returns, as we expect that consumer spending trends are likely to remain below historical levels for the foreseeable future. The price of purchased yarn and other raw materials used by us or our suppliers is prone to significant fluctuations and volatility. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the fabrics or other raw materials used to manufacture our products could have a material adverse effect on our cost of goods sold or our ability to meet our customers’ demands. The prices for fabrics depend largely on the market prices for the raw materials used to produce them. The price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors. At times in the past we have experienced significant upward pressure on each of the foregoing cost inputs, which resulted in pressure on our gross margin. Whenever possible, we pass along these cost increases to our customers through higher selling prices. Should our customers not accept such increases or should they accept them in the first instance, but fail to achieve higher average unit retails thereby increasing their need for margin support from us, our profitability may be materially adversely affected. Energy and fuel costs are prone to significant fluctuations and volatility which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our manufacturing operations and those of our suppliers require high inputs of energy, and therefore changes in energy prices directly impact our gross profits. In addition, we incur significant shipping and freight costs to transport goods from suppliers’ offshore facilities to the United States. The cost of energy and fuel fluctuate due to a number of factors outside our control, including government policy and regulation and weather conditions. We continue to focus on manufacturing methods that will reduce the amount of energy used in the production of our products to mitigate risks of fluctuations in the cost of energy. However, significant increases in energy and fuel prices may make us less competitive as compared to others in the industry, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are subject to cyber-security risks related to breaches of security pertaining to sensitive company, customer, employee and vendor information as well as breaches in the technology that manages operations and other business processes. We use information technologies to securely manage operations and various business functions. We rely upon various technologies to process, store and report on our business and interact with customers, vendors and employees. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security design and controls, and those of our third-party providers, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks by hackers or breaches due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could result in operational disruptions or the misappropriation of sensitive data which could subject us to legal claims or proceedings and have a negative impact on our reputation. There can be no assurance that such disruptions or misappropriations and the resulting repercussions will not negatively impact our cash flows and materially affect our results of operations or financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 13 