Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks We may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and our reports to stockholders. The safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 protects companies from liability for their forward looking statements if they comply with the requirements of that Act. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to that safe harbor. These forward-looking statements relate to future events or to our future financial performance, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by the use of words such as “may,” “could,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “seek,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” “continue,” or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements since they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which are, in some cases, beyond our control and which could materially affect actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations, which we describe in more detail in this section titled “Risks,” include, but are not limited to: · the impact of our plan to preserve cash during ongoing partnering efforts, including the reduction from eighteen employees to two employees and additional steps taken towards a virtual operating model; · unfavorable results of our product candidate development efforts, including through our LipimetiX joint venture; · unfavorable results of pre-clinical and clinical testing, including through our LipimetiX joint venture; · delays in obtaining, or failure to obtain FDA or comparable foreign agencies’ approvals; 9 · increased regulation by the FDA and other agencies; · the introduction of competitive products; · impairment of license, patent or other proprietary rights; · the impact of present and future joint venture, collaborative, partnering or development agreements or the lack thereof; · failure to successfully implement our drug development strategy for AEM-28 or AZX100; · failure to obtain additional funds required to complete clinical trials and supporting research and production efforts necessary to obtain FDA or comparable foreign agencies’ approval for our product candidates or secure development agreements with pharmaceutical manufacturers; and · effect of the ongoing qui tam litigation on our stock price, liquidity, and our ability to execute corporate or other transactions, or our ability to continue operations. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results may vary significantly from what we projected. Any forward-looking statement you read in this Annual Report on Form 10-K reflects our current views with respect to future events and is subject to these and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to our operations, results of operations, business strategy and liquidity. We assume no obligation to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements for any reason, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. We are a defendant in a qui tam, Federal False Claims Act lawsuit that, if unsuccessfully resolved, could materially and adversely impact our business. In September 2009, we were served with a qui tam complaint, filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts, alleging violations of the Federal False Claims Act in connection with our sales of bone growth stimulation devices prior to our sale of that business in November 2003. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings, below, for a discussion of this lawsuit. On December 8, 2010, the court denied our motion to dismiss and we filed our answer on January 28, 2011. No trial date has been set and discovery in the case is now open. We believe that our billing practices related to our sale of bone growth stimulation devices complied with applicable laws and that we have meritorious defenses to the complaint. However, because of the many questions of law and fact that may arise, we cannot at this time predict the outcome of the litigation or its impact on our business, liquidity or financial condition. The Relator seeks damages which, if awarded, could include a statutory penalty for each bone stimulation device sold during the relevant period and which, in the aggregate, could exceed the financial resources of the Company. If we are unable to successfully defend or otherwise dispose of this litigation, and the Relator is awarded the damages sought, we would not be able to continue our business as it is presently conducted. The pendency of this claim may impede or have a material adverse affect on our ability to effect a dissolution, issue a dividend or enter into a strategic transaction. Risks Related to Our Business We are a biopharmaceutical company with no revenue generating operations and high investment costs. We expect to incur losses for a number of years. Our current level of funds is not sufficient to support all research expenses to achieve commercialization of any of our product candidates. In November 2003, we sold all of our revenue generating operations. We are now focused on developing and testing the product candidates of AZX100 and AEM-28 and its analogs (through our joint venture, LipimetiX Development, LLC) and have allocated most of our resources to bringing these product candidates to the market, either through clinical trials or partnering efforts. We currently have no pharmaceutical products being sold or ready for sale and do not expect to be able to introduce any pharmaceutical products for at least several years. As a result of our significant research and development, clinical development, regulatory compliance and general and administrative expenses and the lack of any products to generate revenue, we expect to incur losses for at least the next several years and expect that our losses will increase if we expand our research and development activities and incur significant expenses for clinical trials. Our cash reserves are the primary source of our working capital. To complete the clinical trials and supporting research and production efforts necessary to obtain FDA or comparable foreign agencies’ approval for either AZX100 or AEM-28 and its analogs product candidates would require us to seek other sources of capital. New sources of funds, including raising capital through the sales of securities, joint venture or other forms of joint development arrangements, sales of developments rights, or licensing agreements, may not be available or may only be available at terms that would have a material adverse impact on our existing stockholders’ interests. 10 We may not receive any revenue from our product candidates until we receive regulatory approval and begin commercialization of our product candidates. We cannot predict when that will occur or if it will occur. We caution that our future cash expenditure levels are difficult to forecast because the forecast is based on assumptions about the level of future operations, including the number of research projects we pursue, the pace at which we pursue them, the quality of the data collected and the requests of the FDA or comparable foreign agencies to expand, narrow or conduct additional clinical trials and analyze data. Changes in any of these assumptions can change significantly our estimated cash expenditure levels. Our AZX100 and AEM-28 product candidates have reached various stages of development but may not be successfully developed or commercialized. If we fail to commercialize our product candidates, we will not be able to generate revenue. We currently do not sell any products. In 2011, we suspended clinical development activities for AZX100. We have not been successful in securing partnering or licensing agreements for AZX100 and there is no assurance that we will be successful in the future. Our product candidates have reached the following stages of development: AZX100: · Scarring IND filed in 2007, Phases 1a and 1b safety studies completed in 2008. Phase 2 studies on keloid scar revision and dermal scarring following shoulder surgery commenced in the first quarter of 2009. Phase 2 studies in keloid scar revision were completed and results reported in 2010 and our Phase 2 study in dermal scarring following shoulder surgery was completed and results reported in 2011. · Pulmonary Fibrosis Pre-clinical studies · Peridural Fibrosis (Spine) Pre-clinical studies AEM-28: · Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia · Severe Refractory Hypercholesterolemia Pre-clinical studies Pre-clinical studies 11 We are subject to the risk that: · the FDA or comparable foreign agencies finds some or all of our product candidates ineffective or unsafe; · we do not receive necessary regulatory approvals; · we are unable to get some or all of our product candidates to market in a timely manner; · we are not able to produce our product candidates in commercial quantities at reasonable costs; · our products undergo post-market evaluations resulting in marketing restrictions or withdrawal of our products; or · the patients, insurance and/or physician community does not accept our products. In addition, our product development programs may be curtailed, redirected or eliminated at any time for many reasons, including: · adverse or ambiguous results; · undesirable side effects which delay or extend the trials; · inability to locate, recruit, qualify and retain a sufficient number of patients for our trials; · regulatory delays or other regulatory actions; · difficulties in obtaining sufficient quantities of the particular product candidate or any other components needed for our pre-clinical testing or clinical trials; · change in the focus of our development efforts; · re-evaluation of our clinical development strategy; and · lack of sufficient funds to pay for development costs. We cannot predict whether we will successfully develop and commercialize any of our product candidates. If we fail to do so, we will not be able to generate revenue. If one of our product candidates reveals safety or fundamental efficacy issues in clinical trials, it could impact the development path for our other current product candidates for that peptide. Should the results of pre-clinical studies or human clinical trials show negative safety or efficacy data, it may impact the development of our product candidates, or partnering opportunities for our product candidates. If we cannot protect the AZX100 or AEM-28 and its analogs patents, or our intellectual property generally, our ability to develop and commercialize our products will be severely limited. Our success will depend in part on our ability to maintain and enforce patent protection for AZX100 and AEM-28 and its analogs and each resulting product. Without patent protection, other companies could offer substantially identical products for sale without incurring the sizable discovery, development and licensing costs that we have incurred. Our ability to recover these expenditures and realize profits upon the sale of products would then be diminished. AZX100 and AEM-28 and its analogs are patented and there have been no successful challenges to the patents. However, if there were to be a challenge to these patents or any of the patents for product candidates, a court may determine that the patents are invalid or unenforceable. Even if the validity or enforceability of a patent is upheld by a court, a court may not prevent alleged infringement on the grounds that such activity is not covered by the patent claims. Any litigation, whether to enforce our rights to use our or our licensors’ patents or to defend against allegations that we infringe third party rights, will be costly, time consuming, and may distract management from other important tasks. 12 As is commonplace in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, we employ, or engage as consultants, individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. To the extent our employees are involved in research areas which are similar to those areas in which they were involved at their former employers, we may be subject to claims that such employees and/or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed the alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against such claims, which could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management and which may have a material adverse effect on us, even if we are successful in defending such claims. We also rely in our business on trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information. We seek to protect this information, in part, through the use of confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, advisors and others. Nonetheless, we cannot assure that those agreements will provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information and prevent their unauthorized use or disclosure. The risk that other parties may breach confidentiality agreements or that our trade secrets become known or independently discovered by competitors, could adversely affect us by enabling our competitors, who may have greater experience and financial resources, to copy or use our trade secrets and other proprietary information in the advancement of their products, methods or technologies. Our success also depends on our ability to operate and commercialize products without infringing on the patents or proprietary rights of others. Third parties may claim that we or our licensors or suppliers are infringing their patents or are misappropriating their proprietary information. In the event of a successful claim against us or our licensors or suppliers for infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of others, we may be required to, among other things: · pay substantial damages; · stop using our technologies; · stop certain research and development efforts; · develop non-infringing products or methods; and · obtain one or more licenses from third parties. A license required under any such patents or proprietary rights may not be available to us, or may not be available on acceptable terms. If we or our licensors or suppliers are sued for infringement, we could encounter substantial delays in, or be prohibited from, developing, manufacturing and commercializing our product candidates. The loss of our key management and scientific personnel may hinder our ability to execute our business plan. As a small company our success depends on the continuing contributions of our management team and scientific personnel, and maintaining relationships with the network of medical and academic centers in the United States that conduct our clinical trials. On October 31, 2011, we reduced our staff to four employees and as of December 31, 2013, we have two administrative employees and utilize consultants to perform a variety of administrative, regulatory or research tasks. We have entered into consulting agreements with various former key employees, but there is no assurance that these persons will be available in the future to the extent their services may be needed. If we are not successful in retaining the services of former key employees it could materially adversely affect our business prospects, including our ability to explore partnering or development activities. 13 Our LipimetiX Development, LLC joint venture is managed by Benu BioPharma Inc., which is comprised of three individuals (Dennis I. Goldberg, Ph.D., Phillip M. Friden, Ph.D., and Eric M. Morrel, Ph.D.). Should any of these individuals not continue to provide services to the joint venture, it could materially affect the joint venture’s ability or cost to complete its current development plan for AEM-28 Our reliance on outside suppliers and consultants could have a material effect on our ability to perform research or clinical trials. We rely on outside suppliers and consultants, including former key employees, for the manufacture of AZX100 and AEM-28 and analogs and technical assistance in our research and development efforts. The inability of our suppliers to meet our production quality requirements in a timely manner, or the lack of availability of experienced consultants to assist in our research and development efforts could have a material effect on our ability to perform research or clinical trials. We face an inherent risk of liability in the event that the use or misuse of our products results in personal injury or death. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials may expose us to product liability claims, which could result in financial losses. Our clinical liability insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover claims that may be made against us. In addition, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against losses. Any claims against us, regardless of their merit, could severely harm our financial condition, strain our management and other resources and adversely impact or eliminate the prospects for commercialization of the product which is the subject of any such claim. The development of Apo E mimetic peptide molecule AEM-28 and its analogs by LipimetiX Development, LLC may not result in a liquidity event or a liquidity event, if one occurs, may be insufficient in size and our investment in LipimetiX Development, LLC may not be recovered. On August 3, 2012, we entered into a joint venture with LipimetiX, LLC to develop the Apo E mimetic molecule AEM-28 and analogs and we contributed $6 million to the joint venture. Our cash contribution to the joint venture represents a substantial proportion of our available cash. The initial funded development plan will be focused on the development of treatments for Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia and Refractory Hypercholesterolemia and will extend through Phase 1a and 1b/2a clinical trials. If our planned pre-clinical studies or clinical trials do not yield favorable results, the joint venture development efforts will not be successful and we may not recover our investment. Even if our development efforts are successful, a liquidity event, if any, may be insufficient in size to recover our investment. If our joint venture, LipimetiX Development, LLC, is unable to complete the initial funded development of AEM-28 within the available budget, the joint venture could require additional funding support and the ability of the joint venture to secure a partnering/development agreement or a liquidity event may be impaired. The budget for the development of AEM-28 by our joint venture, LipimetiX Development, LLC is limited. If the joint venture cannot complete the planned development of AEM-28 on time and within the budget, whether because of unexpected delays, or other factors, additional funding may be required. There is no assurance that we will have adequate funds available, or that we can obtain needed funding from third parties on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If the joint venture cannot complete its development work as planned due to a lack of funds, the value of our investment would be impaired, perhaps materially. 14 Risks of our Industry We are in a highly regulated field with high investment costs and high risks. The FDA and comparable agencies in many foreign countries impose substantial limitations on the introduction of new pharmaceuticals through costly and time-consuming laboratory and clinical testing and other procedures. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. AZX100 and AEM-28 are new drugs and subject to the most stringent level of regulatory review. Even after we have invested substantial funds in the development of our products and even if the results of our future clinical trials are favorable, there can be no guarantee that the FDA or comparable foreign agencies will grant approval for the indicated uses or that they will do so in a timely manner. If we successfully bring one or more products to market, there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully manufacture or market the products or that potential customers will buy them if, for example, a competitive product has greater efficacy or is deemed more cost effective. In addition, the market in which we will sell any such products is dominated by a number of large corporations that have vastly greater resources than we have, which may impact our ability to successfully market our products or maintain any technological advantage we might develop. We also would be subject to changes in regulations governing the manufacture and marketing of our products, which could increase our costs, reduce any competitive advantage we may have and/or adversely affect our marketing effectiveness. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to stringent regulation, and failure to obtain regulatory approval will prevent commercialization of our products. Our research, development, pre-clinical and clinical trial activities and the manufacture and marketing of any products that we may successfully develop are subject to an extensive regulatory approval process by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and abroad. The process of obtaining required regulatory approvals for pharmaceutical products is lengthy, expensive and uncertain, and any such regulatory approvals may entail limitations on the indicated usage of a product, which may reduce the product’s market potential. In order to obtain FDA approval to commercialize any product candidate, an NDA must be submitted to the FDA demonstrating, among other things, that the product candidate is safe and effective for use in humans for each target indication. Our regulatory submissions may be delayed, or we may cancel plans to make submissions for product candidates for a number of reasons, including: · negative or ambiguous pre-clinical or clinical trial results; · changes in regulations or the adoption of new regulations; · unexpected technological developments; and · developments by our competitors that are more effective than our product candidates. Consequently, we cannot assure that we will make our submissions to the FDA in the timeframe that we have planned, or at all, or that our submissions will be approved by the FDA. Even if regulatory clearance is obtained, post-market evaluation of our products, if required, could result in restrictions on a product’s marketing or withdrawal of a product from the market as well as possible civil and criminal sanctions. Clinical trials are subject to oversight by institutional review boards and the FDA to ensure compliance with the FDA’s good clinical practice regulations, as well as other requirements for good clinical practices. We depend, in part, on third-party laboratories and medical institutions to conduct pre-clinical studies and clinical trials for our products and other third-party organizations to perform data collection and analysis, all of which must maintain both good laboratory and good clinical practices. If any such standards are not complied with in our clinical trials, the FDA may suspend or terminate such trial, which would severely delay and possibly end the development of a product candidate. 15 We also currently and in the future will depend upon third party manufacturers of our products, which are and will be required to comply with the applicable FDA Good Manufacturing Practice regulations. We cannot be certain that our present or future manufacturers and suppliers will comply with these regulations. The failure to comply with these regulations may result in restrictions in the sale of, or withdrawal of the products from the market. Compliance by third parties with these standards and practices are outside of our direct control. In addition, we are subject to regulation under state and federal laws, including requirements regarding occupational safety, laboratory practices, environmental protection and hazardous substance control, and may be subject to other local, state, federal and foreign regulation. We cannot predict the impact of such regulations on us, although they could impose significant restrictions on our business and require us to incur additional expenses to comply. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective than ours, or obtain marketing approval before we do, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. Competition in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries is intense and is expected to increase. Several biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic laboratories, universities and other research institutions, are involved in research and/or product development for indications targeted for use by AZX100 and AEM-28 and its analogs. Many of our competitors have significantly greater research and development capabilities, experience in obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing, marketing, financial and managerial resources than we have. Our competitors may succeed in developing products that are more effective than the ones we have under development or that render our proposed products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. In addition, certain of such competitors may achieve product commercialization before we do. If any of our competitors develops a product that is more effective than one we are developing or plan to develop, or is able to obtain FDA or comparable foreign agencies’ approval for commercialization before we do, we may not be able to achieve significant market acceptance for certain products of ours, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. For a summary of the competitive conditions relating to indications which we are currently considering for AZX100 and AEM-28 and its analogs, see Part I, Item 1 in this Report titled “Competition”. Our product candidates may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community, including insurance companies and other third party payors. If our product candidates fail to achieve market acceptance, our ability to generate revenue will be limited. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for our products, market acceptance will depend on our ability to demonstrate to physicians and patients the benefits of our products in terms of safety, efficacy, and convenience, ease of administration and cost effectiveness. In addition, we believe market acceptance depends on the effectiveness of our marketing strategy, the pricing of our products and the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors. Physicians may not prescribe our products, and patients may determine, for any reason, that our product is not useful to them. Insurance companies and other third party payors may determine not to reimburse for the cost of the product. If any of our product candidates fails to achieve market acceptance, our ability to generate revenue will be limited. 16 Healthcare reform and restrictions on reimbursements may limit our financial returns. Our ability to successfully commercialize our products may depend in part on the extent to which government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third party payors will reimburse consumers for the cost of these products. Third party payors are increasingly challenging both the need for, and the price of, novel therapeutic drugs and uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved therapeutics. Adequate third party reimbursement may not be available for our products to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investments in research and product development, which could restrict our ability to commercialize a particular product candidate. Risks Relating to our Common Stock Our stock price is volatile and fluctuates due to a variety of factors. Our stock, which is traded in the over-the-counter market, is thinly traded and the trading price has varied significantly in the past (from a high of $9.32 to a low of $0.12 during the period of January 1, 2004 through December 31, 2013) and may vary in the future due to a number of factors, including: · announcement of the results of, or delays in, preclinical and clinical studies; · fluctuations in our operating results; · developments in litigation to which we or a competitor is subject; · announcements and timing of potential partnering, development collaboration or licensing transactions, merger, acquisitions, divestitures, capital raising activities or issuance of preferred stock; · announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; · FDA and other regulatory actions; · developments with respect to our or our competitors’ patents or proprietary rights; · public concern as to the safety of products developed by us or others; and · changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding us, other drug development companies or the pharmaceutical industry generally. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our stock. Furthermore, because our common stock is traded on the OTCQB and has limited trading volume, an investment in our stock is not liquid. Additional authorized shares of our common stock available for issuance may have dilutive and other material effects on our stockholders. We are authorized to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2013, there were 40,885,411 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. However, the total number of shares of our common stock issued and outstanding does not include shares reserved in anticipation of the exercise of options, warrants or additional investment rights. As of December 31, 2013, we had stock options outstanding to purchase approximately 3,225,806 shares of our common stock, the exercise price of which ranges between $0.16 per share to $7.83 per share, warrants outstanding to purchase 46,706 shares of our common stock with an exercise price of $6.39, warrants outstanding to purchase 117,423 shares of our common stock with an exercise price of $1.91, and we have reserved shares of our common stock for issuance in connection with the potential exercise thereof. To the extent additional options are granted and exercised or additional stock is issued, the holders of our common stock will experience further dilution. At December 31, 2013, 48,519 shares remain available to grant under the 2005 Equity Incentive Plan. In addition, in the event that any future financing or consideration for a future acquisition should be in the form of, be convertible into or exchangeable for, equity securities, investors will experience additional dilution. 17 Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws will make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors and may discourage takeover attempts that some of our stockholders may consider beneficial. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our board of directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of the Company and our stockholders. These provisions include, among other things, the following: · a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms; · advance notice procedures for stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholders’ meetings; · the ability of our board of directors to fill vacancies on the board; · a prohibition against stockholders taking action by written consent; · super majority voting requirements for the stockholders to modify or amend our bylaws and specified provisions of our certificate of incorporation, and · the ability of our board of directors to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. These provisions are not intended to prevent a takeover, but are intended to protect and maximize the value of our stockholders’ interests. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable our board of directors to prevent a transaction that some, or a majority, of our stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits business combinations with interested stockholders. Interested stockholders do not include stockholders whose acquisition of our securities is pre-approved by our board of directors under Section 203. We may issue additional shares of preferred stock that have greater rights than our common stock and also have dilutive and anti-takeover effects. We are permitted by our certificate of incorporation to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock. We can issue shares of our preferred stock in one or more series and can set the terms of the preferred stock without seeking any further approval from our common stockholders or other security holders. Any preferred stock that we issue may rank ahead of our common stock in terms of dividend priority or liquidation rights and may have greater voting rights than our common stock. We have not previously paid dividends on our common stock and we do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. We have not in the past paid any dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any future decision to pay a dividend on our common stock and the amount of any dividend paid, if permitted, will be made at the discretion of our board of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 