Risk Factors The following are risk factors relating to Simec and an investment in shares of its series B common stock or ADSs. The risks described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks, including those described elsewhere in this Annual Report, may impair Simec’s business operations. The Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed if any of these risks materialize and, as a result, the price of ADSs representing its series B common stock could decline and investors could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to our Business The Company’s results of operations are significantly influenced by the cyclical nature of steel industry. The steel industry is cyclical in nature and sensitive to general national and international macroeconomic conditions. Prices for Simec’s products are significantly influenced by global demand for steel as well as overall supply levels. Changes in these two factors will likely impact Simec’s operating results. Although global steel prices increased significantly during 2004, global steel prices fell significantly in 2005 over 2004 levels. However, global steel prices increased significantly in the first four months of 2006 over 2005 levels. The cost of ferrous scrap, the principal raw material used in Simec’s steel operations, is subject to price fluctuations. Although Simec’s wholly-owned scrap collection and processing operations furnish a material portion of its scrap requirements, Simec must acquire the remainder of its scrap from other sources. Because increases in the prices Simec is able to charge for its finished steel products may lag increases in ferrous scrap prices, such increases in scrap prices can adversely affect the operating results of Simec. In 2004, the price of scrap increased significantly. However, scrap prices decreased significantly in 2005 over 2004 levels. In the first four months of 2006, scrap prices remained similar to 2005 levels. There can be no assurance that scrap prices will not increase and, if so, there can be no assurance that Simec will be able to pass all or a portion of these increases on through higher finished product prices. The energy costs involved in our production processes are subject to fluctuations that are beyond our control and could significantly increase our costs of production. Energy costs constitute a significant component of Simec’s costs of operations. Our manufacturing processes are dependent on adequate supplies of electricity and natural gas. A substantial increase in the cost of natural gas or electricity could have a material adverse effect on our margins. In addition, a disruption or curtailment in supply could have a material adverse effect on our production and sales levels. The Mexican government is currently the only domestic supplier of energy and has, in some cases, increased prices above international levels. Simec, like all other high volume users of electricity, pays special rates to the CFE for electricity. Simec also pays special rates to Pemex, the national oil company, for gas used at the Guadalajara facility. There can be no assurance these special rates will continue to be available to Simec or that these rates may not increase significantly in the future. Simec has not always been able to pass the effect of these increases on to its customers and there is no assurance that Simec will be able to pass the effect of these increases on to its customers in the future. The Company may not be able to successfully integrate its recently acquired steel facilities into its operations. In 2005, Simec and its parent company, Industrias CH, S.A. de C.V. (“Industrias CH”), acquired 100% of the stock of Republic, a producer of special bar quality (“SBQ”) steel in the United States. Simec, Industrias CH’s largest subsidiary, acquired 50.2% of Republic’s stock through its majority owned subsidiary, SimRep, and Industrias CH purchased the remaining 49.8% through SimRep. In addition, in 2004, Simec acquired the property, plant and equipment and inventories of the Mexican steel manufacturing facilities of Industrias Ferricas del Norte, S.A. located in Apizaco, Tlaxcala and Cholula, Puebla. Simec has been operating these facilities since August 1, 2004. These facilities manufacture a significant amount of Simec’s total production. Simec’s future results will be subject to its ability to fully integrate the operations of the foregoing into its historic operations. Furthermore, while Simec has not yet encountered any material problems related to the assets acquired, there can be no assurance that problems will not arise in the future and that the costs associated with those problems, should they arise, will not be significant and, if so, that Simec will not ultimately have adequate recourse to the seller of those assets. Unanticipated problems with Simec’s manufacturing equipment and facilities could have an adverse impact on Simec’s business. The capacity of Simec to manufacture steel products depends on the suitable operation of its manufacturing equipment, including electric arc furnaces, strand continuous banana casters, reheating furnaces and rolling mills. Although Simec performs maintenance to its equipment on a continuous basis, breakdowns requiring significant time and/or resources to repair, as well as the occurrence of adverse events such as fires, explosions or adverse meteorological conditions, could cause temporary production interruptions that could adversely affect its results of operations. Simec has not obtained insurance against all risks, and does not maintain insurance covering losses resulting from catastrophes or business interruptions. In the event Simec is not able to quickly and cost-effectively remedy problems creating any significant interruption of its manufacturing capabilities, Simec’s operations could be adversely affected. In addition, in the event any of Simec’s plants were destroyed or significantly damaged or its production capabilities otherwise significantly decreased, Simec would likely suffer significant losses; furthermore, the capital investments necessary to repair any destroyed or damaged facilities or machinery would adversely affect its cash flows and its profitability. Because a significant portion of our sales is to the automotive industry, a decrease in the demand of this industry could reduce our cash flow and adversely affect our results of operations. Demand for our products is affected by, among other things, the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. automotive industry. The U.S. automotive industry is highly cyclical and may be adversely affected by international competition. In addition, the U.S. automotive industry is significantly unionized and subject to work slowdowns and stoppages resulting from labor disputes. We also sell to independent forgers, components suppliers and steel service centers, all of which sell to the automotive market as well as other markets. If we are unable to obtain or maintain quality and environmental management certifications for our facilities, we may lose existing customers and fail to attract new customers. ISO is a worldwide federation of national standards bodies which have united to develop internationally accepted standards so that customers and manufacturers have a system in place to provide a product of known quality and standards. The standards set by ISO cover every facet of quality from management responsibility to service and delivery. The facilities at Apizaco and Cholula have received ISO 9001:2000 certification from International Quality Certifications covering the period January 16, 2004 to January 15, 2007. Most of the automotive parts customers of the Apizaco and Cholula facilities require that they have these certifications. ISO 14001 is the international standard defining the organizational structure, responsibilities, procedures, processes and resources for implementing environmental management systems. Most of Republic’s, Simec’s majority-owned subsidiary, automotive customers require that it have this certification. All of Republic’s facilities are currently ISO 14001 certified. If the foregoing certifications are canceled or approvals withdrawn, or if necessary additional standards are not obtained in a timely fashion, our ability to continue to serve our targeted market, retain our customers or attract new customers may be impaired. For example, our failure to maintain these certifications could cause customers to refuse shipments, which could materially affect our revenue and results of operations. In order to continue to serve the premium part of the SBQ products market, Republic, Simec’s majority-owned subsidiary, will need to maintain existing quality certifications in the United States such as QS-9000, the quality system standard established by the Chrysler, Ford and General Motors Supplier Quality Requirements Task Force, and to update its certification standards where necessary to remain current. The QS-9000 standard will no longer be a certification standard as of December 15, 2006. Suppliers currently certified under QS-9000 will need to update their certifications to comply with the ISO/TS 16949 standard, which was developed by the International Automotive Task Force and provides for a single quality management system of continuous improvement, defect prevention and reduction of variation and waste in the supply chain. We are currently working toward transitioning to this standard. In the event of environmental violations at our facilities, we may incur significant liabilities. Our operations are subject to a broad range of environmental laws and regulations regulating our impact on air, water, soil and groundwater and exposure to hazardous substances. We cannot assure you that we will at all times operate in compliance with environmental laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we may be assessed fines or penalties, be required to make large expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations and/or be forced to shut down noncompliant operations. You should also consider that environmental laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent and it is possible that future laws and regulations may require us to incur material environmental compliance liabilities and costs. In addition, we need to maintain existing and obtain future environmental permits in order to operate our facilities. The failure to obtain necessary permits or consents or the loss of any permits could result in significant fines or penalties or prevent us from operating our facilities. We may also be subject, from time to time, to legal proceedings brought by private parties or governmental agencies with respect to environmental matters, including matters involving alleged property damage or personal injury that could result in significant liability. If we are required to remediate contamination at our facilities, we may incur significant liabilities. We may be required to remediate contamination at certain of our facilities and have established a reserve to deal with such liabilities. However, we cannot assure you that our environmental reserves will be adequate to cover such liabilities or that our environmental expenditures will not differ significantly from our estimates or materially increase in the future. Failure to comply with any legal obligations requiring remediation of contamination could result in liabilities, imposition of cleanup liens and fines, and we could incur large expenditures to bring the facilities into compliance. We could incur losses due to product liability claims, and we may be unable to maintain product liability insurance at acceptable costs. We could experience losses from defects or alleged defects in our steel products that subject us to claims for damages. For example, many of our products are used in automobiles and light trucks and it is possible that a defect in one of these vehicles could result in product liability claims against us. In accordance with normal commercial sales, some of our products include implied warranties that such products are free from defect, are suitable for their intended purposes and meet certain agreed upon manufacturing specifications. We cannot provide you with any assurance that future product liability claims will not be made against us, that we will not incur product liability in excess of our insurance coverage, or that we will be able to maintain product liability insurance with adequate coverage levels and at acceptable costs. Simec’s controlling shareholder Industrias CH is able to exert significant influence on the business and policies of Simec and its interests may differ from those of other shareholders. In 2001 Industrias CH acquired a 62% interest in Simec from Simec’s predecessor parent, Group Sidek, and Industrias CH has since increased its ownership interest in Simec to approximately 85% at May 31, 2006. All of the current members of the Board of Directors of Simec were nominated and elected by Industrias CH, and Industrias CH continues to be in the position to elect directors in the future and to exercise substantial influence and control over the business and policies of the Company. It is possible that the interests of Industrias CH could differ from those of other shareholders. Furthermore, as a result of the significant equity position of Industrias CH, there is limited liquidity in Simec’s series B common stock and its ADSs. Risks Related to Mexico Mexican governmental, political and economic factors may adversely impact Simec’s business. The Mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Mexican economy. Accordingly, Mexican governmental actions concerning the economy and state-owned enterprises could have a significant impact on Mexican private sector entities in general and the Company in particular, and on market conditions, prices and returns on Mexican securities, including those of the Company. The Company’s financial condition, results of operations and prospects may also be affected by currency fluctuations, inflation, interest rates, regulation, taxation, social instability and other political, social and economic developments in or affecting Mexico. There can be no assurance that future developments in the Mexican political, economic or social environment, over which the Company has no control, will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects or adversely affect the market price of the ADSs and the series B common stock. In the Mexican national elections held on July 2, 2000, Vicente Fox of the Partido Accion Nacional (the National Action Party) or PAN, won the presidency. His victory ended more than 70 years of presidential rule by the Partido Revolucionario Institucional (the Institutional Revolutionary Party) or PRI. Neither the PRI nor the PAN succeeded in securing a majority in either house of the Mexican Congress. Further, elections held in 2003 and 2004, resulted in a reduction in the number of seats held by the PAN in the Mexican Congress and state governorships. The resulting gridlock, has impeded the progress of structural reforms in Mexico. On July 2, 2006, Mexico held Presidential and Federal Congressional elections and Felipe Calderón Hinojosa, the PAN candidate, has emerged as the winner by a very narrow margin. However, the Partido de la Revolución Democrática (the Revolutionary Democratic Party) or PRD, the leading opposition party, may contest the results of the election and generate uncertainty which may have an adverse effect on economic developments in Mexico, including a possible adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. High levels of inflation and high interest rates in Mexico could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operation In the past, Mexico has experienced high levels of inflation and high domestic interest rates. Increases in interest rates and high levels of inflation could adversely impact the Mexican economy. These events could adversely affect the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of the Company. Restrictive exchange control policy The Mexican economy has in the past experienced balance of payment deficits and shortages in foreign exchange reserves. While the Mexican government does not currently restrict the ability of Mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos to foreign currencies generally, and to U.S. dollars in particular, it has done so in the past and no assurance can be given that the Mexican government will not institute a restrictive exchange control policy in the future. The effect of any exchange control measures adopted by the Mexican government on the Mexican economy cannot be predicted. Simec’s financial statements are prepared in accordance with Mexican GAAP, and therefore may not be directly comparable to financial statements of other companies prepared under U.S. GAAP or other accounting principles. All Mexican companies must prepare their financial statements in accordance with Mexican GAAP, which differs in certain significant respects from U.S. GAAP. Among other differences, Mexican companies are required to incorporate the effects of inflation directly in their accounting records and in their published financial statements. Accordingly, Mexican financial statements and reported earnings may differ from those of companies in other countries in this and other respects. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the principal differences between Mexican GAAP and U.S. GAAP as they relate to the Company. Tariffs, anti-dumping and countervailing duty claims imposed in the future could harm Simec’s ability to export its products. In recent years, the U.S. government has imposed anti-dumping and countervailing duties against Mexican and other foreign steel producers, but has not imposed any such penalties against the Company or the Company’s products. In the first quarter of 2002 the U.S. government imposed tariffs of 15% on rebar and 30% on hot rolled bar and cold finish bar against imports of steel from all the countries with the exception of Mexico, Canada, Argentina, Thailand and Turkey; in the first quarter of 2003 the tariffs were reduced to 12% on rebar and 24% on hot rolled bar and cold finish bar and these tariffs were eliminated in late 2003, prior to their originally scheduled termination date. There can be no assurance that anti-dumping or countervailing duties suits will not be initiated against the Company or that the U.S. government will not impose tariffs on steel imports from Mexico or that existing tariffs on U.S. steel imports from other countries, will not be lifted in the future. In September 2001, the Mexican government imposed tariffs of 25% against imports for all products that Simec produces from all countries with the exception of those which have a free trade agreement with Mexico, which includes the United States. In April 2002, the Mexican government increased these tariffs to 35%. These tariffs have subsequently been reduced over time and are currently 9%. There can be no assurances that these tariffs will not be further reduced or that countries seeking to export steel products to Mexico will not impose similar tariffs on Mexican exports to those countries. Item 