Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks We may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and our reports to stockholders. The safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 protects companies from liability for their forward looking statements if they comply with the requirements of that Act. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to that safe harbor. These forward-looking statements relate to future events or to our future financial performance, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by the use of words such as “may,” “could,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “seek,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” “continue,” or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements since they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which are, in some cases, beyond our control and which could materially affect actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations, which we describe in more detail in this section titled “Risks,” include, but are not limited to: · unfavorable results of our product candidate development efforts; · unfavorable results of our pre-clinical or clinical testing; · delays in obtaining, or failure to obtain FDA approvals; · increased regulation by the FDA and other agencies; · the introduction of competitive products; · impairment of license, patent or other proprietary rights; · failure to achieve market acceptance of our products; · the impact of present and future collaborative or partnering agreements or the lack thereof; · failure to successfully implement our drug development strategy; · failure to obtain additional funds required to complete clinical trials and supporting research and production efforts necessary to obtain FDA approval for our product candidates; · failure in the future to meet the requirements for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market; and · effect of our shareholders’ put rights on our stock price, liquidity or our ability to continue operations. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results may vary significantly from what we projected. Any forward-looking statement you read in this Annual Report on Form 10-K reflects our current views with respect to future events and is subject to these and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to our operations, results of operations, business strategy and liquidity. We assume no obligation to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements for any reason, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. We are a defendant in a qui tam, Federal False Claims Act lawsuit that, if unsuccessfully resolved, could materially and adversely impact our business. In September 2009, we were served with a qui tam complaint, filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts, alleging violations of the Federal False Claims Act in connection with our sales of bone growth stimulation devices prior to our sale of that business in November 2003. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings, below, for a discussion of this lawsuit. On December 8, 2010, the court denied our 8 motion to dismiss and we filed our answer on January 28, 2011. The litigation now will enter the discovery phase. We believe that our billing practices related to our sale of bone growth stimulation devices complied with applicable laws and that we have meritorious defenses to the complaint. However, because of the many questions of law and fact that may arise, we cannot at this time predict the outcome of the litigation or its impact on our business, liquidity or financial condition. The Relator seeks damages which, if awarded, could include a statutory penalty for each bone stimulation device sold during the relevant period and which, in the aggregate, could exceed the financial resources of the Company. If we are unable to successfully defend or otherwise dispose of this litigation, and the Relator is awarded the damages sought, we would not be able to continue our business as it is presently conducted. Risks Related to Our Business We are a biopharmaceutical company with no revenue generating operations and high investment costs. We expect to incur losses for a number of years as we continue our research and development projects. Our current level of funds is not sufficient to support all research expenses to achieve commercialization of any of our product candidates. In November 2003, we sold all of our revenue generating operations. We are now focused on developing and testing the product candidates of AZX100 and Chrysalin and have allocated most of our resources to bringing these product candidates to the market, either through clinical trials or partnering efforts. We may invest in other peptide or small molecule-based therapeutics in the future, but there can be no assurance that opportunities of this nature will occur at acceptable terms, conditions or timing. We currently have no pharmaceutical products being sold or ready for sale and do not expect to be able to introduce any pharmaceutical products for at least several years. As a result of our significant research and development, clinical development, regulatory compliance and general and administrative expenses and the lack of any products to generate revenue, we expect to incur losses for at least the next several years and expect that our losses will increase if we expand our research and development activities and incur significant expenses for clinical trials. Our cash reserves are the primary source of our working capital. To complete the clinical trials and supporting research and production efforts necessary to obtain FDA approval for either AZX100 or Chrysalin product candidates would require us to seek other sources of capital. New sources of funds, including raising capital through the sales of securities, joint venture or other forms of joint development arrangements, sales of developments rights, or licensing agreements, may not be available or may only be available at terms that would have a material adverse impact on our existing stockholders’ interests. We may not receive any revenue from our product candidates until we receive regulatory approval and begin commercialization of our product candidates. We cannot predict when that will occur or if it will occur. We caution that our future cash expenditure levels are difficult to forecast because the forecast is based on assumptions about the number of research projects we pursue, the pace at which we pursue them, the quality of the data collected and the requests of the FDA to expand, narrow or conduct additional clinical trials and analyze data. Changes in any of these assumptions can change significantly our estimated cash expenditure levels. Our product candidates have reached various stages of development but may not be successfully developed or commercialized. If we fail to commercialize our product candidates, we will not be able to generate revenue. We currently do not sell any products. We currently intend to pursue development partnering or licensing opportunities for our product candidates. We have no current plans to perform additional clinical trials with Chrysalin. Our product candidates have reached the following stages of development: 9 AZX100: · Scarring IND filed in 2007, Phases 1a and 1b safety studies completed in 2008. completed in 2008. Phase 2 studies on keloid scar revision and dermal scarring following shoulder surgery commenced in the first quarter of 2009. Phase 2 studies in keloid scar revision were completed and results reported in 2010 and our Phase 2 study in dermal scarring following shoulder surgery is scheduled to be completed in early 2011. · Pulmonary Fibrosis Pre-clinical trials. Chrysalin: · Acceleration of Fracture Repair Phase 3 / Phase 2b human clinical trials · Diabetic Foot Ulcer Healing Phase 1/2 human clinical trials · Spine Fusion Phase 1/2 human clinical trials · Cartilage Defect Repair Late stage pre-clinical trials · Tendon Repair Early stage pre-clinical trials · Cardiovascular Repair Pre-clinical trials · Dental Bone Repair Pre-clinical trials We are subject to the risk that: · the FDA finds some or all of our product candidates ineffective or unsafe; · we do not receive necessary regulatory approvals; · we are unable to get some or all of our product candidates to market in a timely manner · we are not able to produce our product candidates in commercial quantities at reasonable costs; · our products undergo post-market evaluations resulting in marketing restrictions or withdrawal of our products; or · the patients, insurance and/or physician community does not accept our products. In addition, our product development programs may be curtailed, redirected or eliminated at any time for many reasons, including: · adverse or ambiguous results; · undesirable side effects which delay or extend the trials; · inability to locate, recruit, qualify and retain a sufficient number of patients for our trials; · regulatory delays or other regulatory actions; · difficulties in obtaining sufficient quantities of the particular product candidate or any other · components needed for our pre-clinical testing or clinical trials; · change in the focus of our development efforts; · re-evaluation of our clinical development strategy; and · lack of sufficient funds to pay for development costs. We cannot predict whether we will successfully develop and commercialize any of our product candidates. If we fail to do so, we will not be able to generate revenue. Our product candidates are all based on the same two chemical peptides, Chrysalin and AZX100. If one of our Chrysalin or AZX100 product candidates reveals safety or fundamental efficacy issues in clinical trials, it could impact the development path for our other current product candidates for that peptide. 10 Should the results of pre-clinical studies or human clinical trials show negative safety or efficacy data, it may impact the development of our AZX100 or Chrysalin product candidates, or partnering opportunities for our product candidates. If we cannot protect the Chrysalin patents, the AZX100 patents, or our intellectual property generally, our ability to develop and commercialize our products will be severely limited. Our success will depend in part on our ability to maintain and enforce patent protection for Chrysalin and AZX100 and each product resulting from Chrysalin or AZX100. Without patent protection, other companies could offer substantially identical products for sale without incurring the sizable discovery, development and licensing costs that we have incurred. Our ability to recover these expenditures and realize profits upon the sale of products would then be diminished. Certain key Chrysalin methods of use patents have expired and other patents will expire during the development period of our Chrysalin product candidates. We believe our current patents covering formulations and specific indications are adequate to protect the value of the Chrysalin product candidates. However, if our current patents are not adequate, the value of our Chrysalin product candidates may be materially adversely impacted. Chrysalin and AZX100 are patented and there have been no successful challenges to the patents. However, if there were to be a challenge to these patents or any of the patents for product candidates, a court may determine that the patents are invalid or unenforceable. Even if the validity or enforceability of a patent is upheld by a court, a court may not prevent alleged infringement on the grounds that such activity is not covered by the patent claims. Any litigation, whether to enforce our rights to use our or our licensors’ patents or to defend against allegations that we infringe third party rights, will be costly, time consuming, and may distract management from other important tasks. As is commonplace in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. To the extent our employees are involved in research areas which are similar to those areas in which they were involved at their former employers, we may be subject to claims that such employees and/or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed the alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against such claims, which could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management and which may have a material adverse effect on us, even if we are successful in defending such claims. We also rely in our business on trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information. We seek to protect this information, in part, through the use of confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, advisors and others. Nonetheless, we cannot assure that those agreements will provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information and prevent their unauthorized use or disclosure. The risk that other parties may breach confidentiality agreements or that our trade secrets become known or independently discovered by competitors, could adversely affect us by enabling our competitors, who may have greater experience and financial resources, to copy or use our trade secrets and other proprietary information in the advancement of their products, methods or technologies. Our success also depends on our ability to operate and commercialize products without infringing on the patents or proprietary rights of others. Third parties may claim that we or our licensors or suppliers are infringing their patents or are misappropriating their proprietary information. In the event of a successful claim against us or our licensors or suppliers for infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of others, we may be required to, among other things: · pay substantial damages; 11 · stop using our technologies; · stop certain research and development efforts; · develop non-infringing products or methods; and · obtain one or more licenses from third parties. A license required under any such patents or proprietary rights may not be available to us, or may not be available on acceptable terms. If we or our licensors or suppliers are sued for infringement, we could encounter substantial delays in, or be prohibited from, developing, manufacturing and commercializing our product candidates. The loss of our key management and scientific personnel may hinder our ability to execute our business plan. As a small company our success depends on the continuing contributions of our management team and scientific personnel, and maintaining relationships with the network of medical and academic centers in the United States that conduct our clinical trials. The resignation or retirement of members of senior management or scientific personnel could materially adversely affect our business prospects. Our reliance on outside suppliers and consultants could have a material effect on our ability to perform research or clinical trials. We rely on outside suppliers and consultants for the manufacture of Chrysalin and AZX100 and technical assistance in our research and development efforts. The inability of our suppliers to meet our production quality requirements in a timely manner, or the lack of availability of experienced consultants to assist in our research and development efforts, could have a material effect on our ability to perform research or clinical trials. We face an inherent risk of liability in the event that the use or misuse of our products results in personal injury or death. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials may expose us to product liability claims, which could result in financial losses. Our clinical liability insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover claims that may be made against us. In addition, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against losses. Any claims against us, regardless of their merit, could severely harm our financial condition, strain our management and other resources and adversely impact or eliminate the prospects for commercialization of the product which is the subject of any such claim. Risks of our Industry We are in a highly regulated field with high investment costs and high risks. The FDA and comparable agencies in many foreign countries impose substantial limitations on the introduction of new pharmaceuticals through costly and time-consuming laboratory and clinical testing and other procedures. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Chrysalin and AZX100 are new drugs and are subject to the most stringent level of FDA review. Even after we have invested substantial funds in the development of our Chrysalin and AZX100 products and even if the results of our future clinical trials are favorable, there can be no guarantee that the FDA will grant approval of Chrysalin and/or AZX100 for the indicated uses or that it will do so in a timely manner. 12 If we successfully bring one or more products to market, there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully manufacture or market the products or that potential customers will buy them if, for example, a competitive product has greater efficacy or is deemed more cost effective. In addition, the market in which we will sell any such products is dominated by a number of large corporations that have vastly greater resources than we have, which may impact our ability to successfully market our products or maintain any technological advantage we might develop. We also would be subject to changes in regulations governing the manufacture and marketing of our products, which could increase our costs, reduce any competitive advantage we may have and/or adversely affect our marketing effectiveness. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to stringent regulation, and failure to obtain regulatory approval will prevent commercialization of our products. Our research, development, pre-clinical and clinical trial activities and the manufacture and marketing of any products that we may successfully develop are subject to an extensive regulatory approval process by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and abroad. The process of obtaining required regulatory approvals for pharmaceutical products is lengthy, expensive and uncertain, and any such regulatory approvals may entail limitations on the indicated usage of a product, which may reduce the product’s market potential. In order to obtain FDA approval to commercialize any product candidate, an NDA must be submitted to the FDA demonstrating, among other things, that the product candidate is safe and effective for use in humans for each target indication. Our regulatory submissions may be delayed, or we may cancel plans to make submissions for product candidates for a number of reasons, including: · negative or ambiguous pre-clinical or clinical trial results; · changes in regulations or the adoption of new regulations; · unexpected technological developments; and · developments by our competitors that are more effective than our product candidates. Consequently, we cannot assure that we will make our submissions to the FDA in the timeframe that we have planned, or at all, or that our submissions will be approved by the FDA. Even if regulatory clearance is obtained, post-market evaluation of our products, if required, could result in restrictions on a product’s marketing or withdrawal of a product from the market as well as possible civil and criminal sanctions. Clinical trials are subject to oversight by institutional review boards and the FDA to ensure compliance with the FDA’s good clinical practice regulations, as well as other requirements for good clinical practices. We depend, in part, on third-party laboratories and medical institutions to conduct pre-clinical studies and clinical trials for our products and other third-party organizations to perform data collection and analysis, all of which must maintain both good laboratory and good clinical practices. If any such standards are not complied with in our clinical trials, the FDA may suspend or terminate such trial, which would severely delay and possibly end the development of a product candidate. We also currently and in the future will depend upon third party manufacturers of our products, which are and will be required to comply with the applicable FDA Good Manufacturing Practice regulations. We cannot be certain that our present or future manufacturers and suppliers will comply with these regulations. The failure to comply with these regulations may result in restrictions in the sale of, or withdrawal of the products from the market. Compliance by third parties with these standards and practices are outside of our direct control. In addition, we are subject to regulation under state and federal laws, including requirements regarding occupational safety, laboratory practices, environmental protection and hazardous substance control, and may be subject to other local, state, federal and foreign regulation. We cannot predict the impact of such regulations on us, although they could impose significant restrictions on our business and require us to incur additional expenses to comply. 13 If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective than ours, or obtain marketing approval before we do, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. Competition in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries is intense and is expected to increase. Several biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic laboratories, universities and other research institutions, are involved in research and/or product development for indications targeted for use by either Chrysalin or AZX100. Many of our competitors have significantly greater research and development capabilities, experience in obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing, marketing, financial and managerial resources than we have. Our competitors may succeed in developing products that are more effective than the ones we have under development or that render our proposed products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. In addition, certain of such competitors may achieve product commercialization before we do. If any of our competitors develops a product that is more effective than one we are developing or plan to develop, or is able to obtain FDA approval for commercialization before we do, we may not be able to achieve significant market acceptance for certain products of ours, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. For a summary of the competitive conditions relating to indications which we are currently considering for Chrysalin and AZX100, see Part I, Item 1 in this Report titled “Competition”. Our product candidates may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community, including insurance companies and other third party payors. If our product candidates fail to achieve market acceptance, our ability to generate revenue will be limited. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for our products, market acceptance will depend on our ability to demonstrate to physicians and patients the benefits of our products in terms of safety, efficacy, and convenience, ease of administration and cost effectiveness. In addition, we believe market acceptance depends on the effectiveness of our marketing strategy, the pricing of our products and the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors. Physicians may not prescribe our products, and patients may determine, for any reason, that our product is not useful to them. Insurance companies and other third party payors may determine not to reimburse for the cost of the product. If any of our product candidates fails to achieve market acceptance, our ability to generate revenue will be limited. Healthcare reform and restrictions on reimbursements may limit our financial returns. Our ability to successfully commercialize our products may depend in part on the extent to which government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third party payors will reimburse consumers for the cost of these products. Third party payors are increasingly challenging both the need for, and the price of, novel therapeutic drugs and uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved therapeutics. Adequate third party reimbursement may not be available for our products to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investments in research and product development, which could restrict our ability to commercialize a particular product candidate. Risks and Uncertainties Related to the Put Rights In May 2010, our stockholders approved an amendment to our certificate of incorporation, to provide each record holder of our common stock as of June 30, 2011 with the right to require us, under certain circumstances, to purchase for cash all or a portion of the shares of common stock held by such holder at a formula-based price on or about July 31, 2011 (the “put right”). Unless terminated earlier, the put rights will become exercisable by holders of our common stock as of June 30, 2011. We expect to facilitate the exercise of the put rights through the use of a tender offer, informing stockholders of the 14 amount of cash that would be paid for each properly exercised put right and the process by which to exercise such put rights. The cash price to be paid to stockholders for each properly exercised put right will be based on a formula calculated by us as of June 30, 2011, which price is intended to approximate the per-share equivalent of 90% of our available cash (as that term is defined in our Certificate of Incorporation) as of June 30, 2011. The uncertainty of pending litigation may cause the put rights to be unexercisable, cause the exercise of the rights to be uneconomical, affect the timing of the exercise of the put rights or affect the timing of the payments of the put price. Our obligation to purchase shares upon exercise of the put rights is subject to various conditions. One condition is that such purchases will not violate applicable law, including Section 160 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (DGCL) relating to share repurchases that may impair capital. Because the pending qui tam litigation described in Item 3 below seeks potentially significant damages that, if awarded, could exceed our financial resources, the pendency of this claim at the time of share repurchases pursuant to the put rights could cause the share repurchases to violate Section 160 of the DGCL and the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act. In addition, in determining the price per share to be paid to stockholders upon exercise of the put rights, our Board of Directors must value all contingent liabilities, including the qui tam lawsuit. Our Board of Directors may determine that, even if the probability of an unsuccessful outcome of this litigation is low, the magnitude of the potential damages that may be awarded in an unfavorable verdict is such that the value ascribed to this contingent liability for this purposes would cause the per share purchase price upon exercise of the put rights to be zero or nearly zero. Any such determination could materially and adversely impact our share price. If holders of 100% of our Common Stock properly exercise their put rights, the put rights will terminate and our Board of Directors will propose a plan of dissolution or liquidation to our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation provides, among other things, that if holders of 100% of our Common Stock outstanding as of June 30, 2011 properly exercise their put rights, the put rights will immediately terminate and our Board of Directors must propose a plan of dissolution or liquidation for approval by our stockholders. We cannot be certain that our stockholders will approve any such plan or if such a plan were approved, how the liquidation or dissolution will affect the value of shares of Common Stock. The price per share paid by us in connection with any properly exercised put rights may be substantially less or more than the price per share a stockholder may be able to obtain in the future if a stockholder elects not to exercise their put right. Although our Board of Directors will make a good faith effort to value our assets and liabilities in connection with the exercise of any put rights, we cannot assure you that such valuations will accurately reflect the liquidation value of our non-cash assets or our outstanding and contingent liabilities. Certain of our non-cash assets, including our intellectual property portfolio, and liabilities may present significant valuation challenges. We cannot assure you that the price per share that we offer to pay pursuant to any properly exercised put right will be fair. If our Board of Directors materially underestimates the liquidation value of our non-cash assets or materially overestimates the liquidation value of our outstanding and contingent liabilities, the price per share that we offer to pay pursuant to any properly exercised put right may be significantly less than the value of a share of our Common Stock following consummation of the put. Alternatively, if our Board of Directors materially overestimates the liquidation value of our non-cash assets or materially underestimates the liquidation value of our outstanding and contingent liabilities, 15 the price per share that we offer to pay pursuant to any properly exercised put right may be significantly more than the value of a share of our Common Stock following consummation of the put. We also cannot assure you how long or whether we will continue to operate the Company following the purchase of shares pursuant to any properly exercised put rights. However, in the event that we do continue to operate the Company after such time, it is possible that the long-term value of the shares held by our continuing stockholders will substantially exceed or be materially less than the price per share that we offer pursuant to any properly exercised put right. In part, this is because the price per share to be paid upon the exercise of a put right will be based on the liquidation value of our non-cash assets and our commitments and contingencies, as determined by our Board of Directors. The actual future value of these assets realized in an orderly liquidation or through continued operation will almost certainly be materially different than their liquidation value. Likewise, the liquidation value ascribed to contingent or uncertain liabilities will almost certainly be materially different than the actual cost to resolve such liabilities in due course. The exercise of the put rights may trigger delisting from The Nasdaq Stock Market, if our shares are then listed on that exchange. Under Rule 5550 of the Nasdaq Listing Rules, two of the continued listing requirements for a company that has its Common Stock listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market are that the company has: · at least 300 beneficial and record holders other than any holder who is an executive officer, director or greater than 10% beneficial owner, and · at least 500,000 shares not held by any officer, director, or greater than 10% beneficial owner. If enough holders of our Common Stock exercise the put right such that either of these continued listing requirements is no longer satisfied, our Common Stock would be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. Delisting of our Common Stock could have a materially negative impact on its market value and would significantly impair its liquidity to the detriment of our continuing stockholders. The exercise of the put rights may enable us to take the Company private. Even if the exercise of put rights does not trigger delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market, we may still be able, and may in fact elect, to terminate the registration of our Common Stock under Section 12 of the Exchange Act and delist our shares from the Nasdaq Capital Market. This is sometimes described as “going private.” Rule 12g-4 under the Act provides that an issuer may terminate the registration of any class of its securities registered under the Act where it has fewer than 300 holders of record of such class. If the purchase of our Common Stock pursuant to properly exercised put rights reduces our record holder count to fewer than 300, we cannot assure you that we would not seek to take the Company private. Deregistration of our Common Stock would, among other things, terminate our periodic reporting obligations under the Act, which would mean that our continuing stockholders may have access to significantly less information about the Company following deregistration. In addition, delisting our Common Stock could have a materially negative impact on its market value and would significantly impair the liquidity of any available market for our shares, to the detriment of our continuing stockholders. At the time that stockholders must decide whether to exercise their put rights, they may not know whether we will elect to deregister our Common Stock and go private. 16 We may not be obligated to purchase shares pursuant to properly exercised put rights, and the put rights may terminate, which may have material adverse effect on our share price. The put rights will terminate upon the occurrence of any one of a number of events, including our entry into an agreement for a partnering, development or any other transaction, whether commercial, investment or otherwise, that our Board of Directors determines to be material, a change in control of the Company, approval by our Board of Directors of a plan of liquidation or dissolution of the Company, or the exercise of put rights with respect to 100% of the Common Stock outstanding as of June 30, 2011. We will also not be obligated to purchase shares pursuant to properly exercised put rights in the event that we do not have sufficient cash to purchase all such shares. Termination of the put right due to any one of these events could materially and adversely impact on our share price. Holders of options or warrants to purchase shares of our Common Stock will have to exercise such securities prior to our determination of the put price on June 30, 2011, or such holders will not be eligible to exercise put rights with respect to the shares of Common Stock underlying such securities. Holders of options or warrants to purchase shares of our Common Stock will have to exercise such securities prior to June 30, 2011, the record date for the put rights, or they will not be eligible to exercise put rights with respect to the shares of Common Stock underlying such securities. If the holder of an option or warrant elects to exercise such security prior to June 30, 2011 in order to take advantage of the put rights associated with the shares underlying such securities, there is no assurance that the put will not terminate pursuant to its terms or that the put price ultimately set by our Board of Directors will exceed the exercise price of any given option or warrant. If the put rights terminate or if the put price is less than the applicable exercise price, the exercising holder would be effectively deprived of any benefit of the put rights. If we do not have sufficient cash to purchase all shares in respect of which put rights have been properly exercised, we will not be obligated to purchase such shares at all. The amount of cash available to pay for shares in respect of which put rights have been properly exercised is based in part on the liquidation value of the Company’s assets, as determined by the Board of Directors in its sole and absolute discretion. We expect that, if the put rights shall not have terminated by their terms prior to becoming exercisable, our disposable assets (other than cash, cash equivalents and certain investments) will have only limited liquidation value. However, if the Board determines that the liquidation value of such disposable assets is significant, we may not have enough available cash to consummate the purchase of shares in respect of which put rights have been properly exercised, and we are not obligated, nor do we expect, to seek additional debt or equity financing, dispose of assets or take any other actions in order to raise additional funds to consummate the put, or we may be required to utilize a substantial portion of our available cash to consummate the share purchases, which may leave insufficient cash to operate the business for the benefit of the remaining stockholders. We are not obligated, nor do we expect, to undertake a partial purchase of shares subject to put rights under any circumstances. The exercise of the put rights could result in a change in control of the Company. If an entity or several entities with substantial holdings on June 30, 2011 do not elect to exercise their put rights, the exercise of the put rights by other stockholders would increase the percentage ownership of the Company for those stockholders who retain their shares, which could result in sufficient ownership by one entity or a small group of entities, such that they could effectively control the Company. Should this occur, it could have a material and adverse impact on our share price and increased uncertainty regarding the future direction of the Company. 17 Accounting for the put rights could cause variability in the results we report. The put rights are an embedded equity derivative within our common stock requiring certain fair value measurements at each reporting period. The put rights are a unique addition to the rights of the holders of our common stock and the relevant accounting literature is very complex and the put rights are inherently difficult to value. Additionally, derivative accounting for the put rights also affects the accounting for other items in our financial statements, including our exercisable stock options and warrants, and these affects are inherently difficult to determine, require difficult estimates and are very subjective. We could have substantial variability in the related periodic fair value measurements, which would affect our operating results and in-turn could impact our stock price. Risks Related to Our Common Stock If we fail to meet the requirements for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market, our common stock could be delisted from trading, which would adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital. Our common stock was listed on the Nasdaq Global Market and is now listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. We are required to meet specified financial requirements to maintain our listing on the Nasdaq Stock Markets. One such requirement is that we maintain a minimum bid price of at least $1.00 per share for our common stock. In 2008, our common stock closed at prices that were below the minimum bid price requirement and on August 11, 2008, we received a notice from Nasdaq, dated August 8, 2008, that the minimum bid price for our common stock had closed under $1.00 per share for over 30 business days, causing a violation of the continuing listing standard of the Nasdaq Markets. In anticipation of not meeting the Nasdaq Global Market minimum bid price continued listing requirement, we requested and on November 16, 2009, received approval from Nasdaq to transfer the listing of its common stock from the Nasdaq Global Market to the Nasdaq Capital Market. We received a notice on March 4, 2010 from The Nasdaq Stock Market, that we had regained compliance with the Nasdaq Listing Rules for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. On May 7, 2010, we received a letter from The Nasdaq Stock Market notifying us that for the 30 consecutive business days preceding the date of the letter, the bid price of our common stock had closed below the $1.00 per share minimum bid price required for continued inclusion on The Nasdaq Capital Market pursuant to the Nasdaq Listing Rules. In accordance with Nasdaq Listing Rules, we had 180 calendar days from the date of the Nasdaq letter, or until November 3, 2010, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule. To regain compliance, the closing bid price of our common stock must meet or exceed $1.00 per share for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. Nasdaq may, in its discretion, require us to maintain a bid price of at least $1.00 per share for a period in excess of 10 consecutive business days, but generally no more than 20 consecutive business days, before determining that we have demonstrated an ability to maintain long-term compliance. On November 11, 2010, we received a letter from Nasdaq, notifying us that we had not regained compliance by November 3, 2010 with the Nasdaq Listing Rules. Nasdaq has determined that as of November 11, 2010, we meet the applicable requirements of Nasdaq Listing Rules, other than the minimum bid price, for continued listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market. Accordingly, we have been afforded an additional period, ending May 2, 2011, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule. Our common stock will continue to be listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market during this period. If compliance is not regained, Nasdaq will notify us of its determination to delist our common stock, which decision may be appealed to a Nasdaq Hearing Panel. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in regaining compliance with the Nasdaq Listing Rules nor maintain compliance in the future. In the event of delisting, trading, if any, could continue to be conducted on the over the counter market in the so called “pink sheets” or on the OTC Bulletin Board. 18 Selling our common stock would be more difficult because, among other things, smaller quantities of shares would likely be bought and sold, transactions could be delayed, security analysts’ coverage of us could be reduced and shareholders may find it more difficult to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock. Also, a delisting (or a notice or other action indicating the possible future delisting of our common stock) could have a material adverse effect on the price for our shares and our ability to issue additional securities or to secure additional financing. In addition, delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market may subject our common stock to “penny stock” rules under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These rules impose additional sales practice and other requirements on broker-dealers who sell and/or make a market in securities deemed penny stocks under SEC rules. Consequently, the delisting of our securities and the applicability of the penny stock rules may adversely affect the liquidity and price of our common stock. Our stock price is volatile and fluctuates due to a variety of factors. Our stock price has varied significantly in the past (from a high of $9.32 to a low of $0.35 during the period of January 1, 2004 through December 31, 2010) and may vary in the future due to a number of factors, including: · announcement of the results of, or delays in, preclinical and clinical studies; · fluctuations in our operating results; · developments in litigation to which we or a competitor is subject; · announcements and timing of potential partnering, development collaboration or licensing transactions, merger, acquisitions, divestitures, capital raising activities or issuance of preferred stock; · announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; · FDA and other regulatory actions; · developments with respect to our or our competitors’ patents or proprietary rights; · public concern as to the safety of products developed by us or others; · changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding us, other drug development companies or the pharmaceutical industry generally; · failure in the future to meet the requirements for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market; and · the effect or the perceived effect of the stockholder put rights. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our stock. Additional authorized shares of our common stock available for issuance may have dilutive and other material effects on our stockholders. We are authorized to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2010, there were 40,775,411 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. However, the total number of shares of our common stock issued and outstanding does not include shares reserved in anticipation of the exercise of options, warrants or additional investment rights. As of December 31, 2010, we had stock options outstanding to purchase approximately 3,610,173 shares of our common stock, the exercise price of which ranges between $0.42 per share to $7.83 per share, warrants outstanding to purchase 46,706 shares of our common stock with an exercise price of $6.39, warrants outstanding to purchase 117,423 shares of our common stock with an exercise price of $1.91, and we have reserved shares of our common stock for issuance in connection with the potential exercise thereof. To the extent additional options are granted and exercised or additional stock is issued, the holders of our common stock will experience further dilution. At December 31, 2010, 449,502 shares remain available to grant under the 2005 Equity Incentive Plan. In addition, in the event that any future financing or consideration for a future acquisition 19 should be in the form of, be convertible into or exchangeable for, equity securities, investors will experience additional dilution. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws will make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors and may discourage takeover attempts that some of our stockholders may consider beneficial. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our board of directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of the Company and our stockholders. These provisions include, among other things, the following: · a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms; · advance notice procedures for stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholders’ meetings; · the ability of our board of directors to fill vacancies on the board; · a prohibition against stockholders taking action by written consent; · super majority voting requirements for the stockholders to modify or amend our bylaws and specified provisions of our certificate of incorporation, and · the ability of our board of directors to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. These provisions are not intended to prevent a takeover, but are intended to protect and maximize the value of our stockholders’ interests. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable our board of directors to prevent a transaction that some, or a majority, of our stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits business combinations with interested stockholders. Interested stockholders do not include stockholders whose acquisition of our securities is pre-approved by our board of directors under Section 203. We may issue additional shares of preferred stock that have greater rights than our common stock and also have dilutive and anti-takeover effects. We are permitted by our certificate of incorporation to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock. We can issue shares of our preferred stock in one or more series and can set the terms of the preferred stock without seeking any further approval from our common stockholders or other security holders. Any preferred stock that we issue may rank ahead of our common stock in terms of dividend priority or liquidation rights and may have greater voting rights than our common stock. In connection with a Rights Agreement, dated as of June 19, 2007 and as amended May 21, 2010, between us and the Bank of New York, (the “Rights Agreement”), our board approved the designation of 1,000,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock. The Rights Agreement and the exercise of rights to purchase Series A Preferred Stock pursuant to the terms thereof may delay, defer or prevent a change in control because the terms of any issued Series A Preferred Stock would potentially prohibit our consummation of certain extraordinary corporate transactions without the approval of the Board of Directors. In addition to the anti-takeover effects of the rights granted under the Rights Agreement, the issuance of preferred stock, generally, could have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. We have not previously paid dividends on our common stock and we do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. We have not in the past paid any dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any future decision to pay a 20 dividend on our common stock and the amount of any dividend paid, if permitted, will be made at the discretion of our board of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 