Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the risks that are described below, there may be risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial that may also impair our business. If any of the events or circumstances described as risks below or elsewhere in this report actually occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. The following risks, as well as other information contained herein, including our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto, should be carefully considered in evaluating our business and any investment in our common stock. The apparel industry is heavily influenced by general economic cycles that affect consumer spending. A prolonged period of depressed consumer spending would have a material adverse effect on us. The apparel industry has historically been subject to cyclical variations, recessions in the general economy and uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect consumer spending habits, which could negatively impact our business. The success of our operations depends on a number of factors impacting discretionary consumer spending, including general economic conditions, consumer confidence, wages and unemployment, housing prices, consumer debt, interest rates, fuel and energy costs, taxation and political conditions. A downturn in the economy may affect consumer purchases of our products and adversely impact our growth and profitability. We use foreign suppliers for our raw materials and the manufacture of products for our men’s division and our operations include a manufacturing facility based in Honduras, which poses risks to our business operations. During 2012, the majority of our production took place in Honduras, and a significant portion of our products were also produced by independent manufacturers located outside the United States. Although no single supplier is critical to our production needs, any of the following could adversely affect the production and delivery of our products and, as a result, have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: · political or labor instability in countries where contractors and suppliers are located; · political or military conflict involving the United States; · heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods; · a significant decrease in availability or increase in cost of labor or raw materials, particularly in petroleum based synthetic fabrics; · impact of the global economic downturn on third party factories and their viability; · disease epidemics and health related concerns which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces and scrutiny or embargo of goods produced in infected areas; · imposition of regulations, quotas or duties relating to imports, which, among other things, could limit our ability to produce products in cost effective countries that have the labor force and expertise required; · any action that may change the foreign currency exchange rate against the dollar or permit the exchange rate to float; and · significant fluctuation of the value of the dollar as compared to other foreign currencies. The occurrence of any, some, or all of these events could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that if a disruption occurred we could replace our manufacturing capacity and/or find other manufacturing resources. There may not be an established public trading market for the Company’s common stock. There is currently no established public trading market for our common stock. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTC Markets (formerly known as “Pink Sheets”) under the symbol “HAMP”. The OTC Markets is a centralized quotation service that collects and publishes market maker quotes for over-the-counter securities in real time. Over-the-counter market quotations, like those on the OTC Markets, reflect inter-dealer prices, without retail mark-up, mark-down or commission and may not necessarily represent actual transactions. Currently, we are not actively seeking to become listed on the Nasdaq Global Market or any other exchange. There can be no assurance that our common stock will again be listed on a national exchange, or that a trading market for our common stock will be established. We rely on our key customers, and a significant decrease in business from or the loss of any one of these key customers would substantially reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business. Aeropostale, Kohl’s Department Stores, Inc. and J.C. Penney Company Inc. account for a significant portion of our revenues. We do not have long term agreements with any of our customers and purchases generally occur on an order by order basis. A decision by any of our major customers, whether motivated by marketing strategy, competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease significantly the amount of merchandise purchased from us or to change their manner of doing business with us, could substantially reduce our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our profitability. 6 The retail industry has, in the past several years, experienced a great deal of consolidation and other ownership changes and we expect such changes to be ongoing. In the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or re-position their stores' target markets. Any of these types of actions could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry. These changes could decrease our opportunities in the market, increase our reliance on a smaller number of customers and decrease our negotiating strength with them. Our business has been and could continue to be adversely affected by financial instability experienced by our customers. During the past several years, various retailers have experienced significant financial difficulties, which have resulted in bankruptcies, liquidations and store closings. Over the last few years, several of our customers, including Goody’s, Mervyns, Gottschalks and Boscov’s, either reorganized or liquidated. We sell our product primarily to national and regional department stores, and vertical specialty stores in the United States on credit and evaluate each customer's financial condition on a regular basis in order to determine the credit risk we take in selling goods to them. The financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail business with that customer and we may be unable to shift sales to another customer at comparable margins. We may also assume more credit risk relating to receivables of a customer experiencing financial instability. Should these circumstances arise with respect to our customers, our inability to shift sales or to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any one of our customers could substantially reduce our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Chargebacks and margin support payments may have a material adverse effect on our business. Consistent with industry practice, we may allow customers to deduct agreed upon amounts from the purchase price for sales allowances, co-op advertising, new store opening discounts and other marketing development funds, which in the opinion of management promotes brand awareness. In addition, margin support payments may be required due to lower than anticipated sell through rates, which may be caused by uncontrollable factors, such as general economic conditions, changing fashion trends and weather conditions, as well as controllable factors, such as wholesale prices, design, merchandising and the quality of our goods. These deductions have a dilutive effect on our business and results of operations since they reduce overall gross profit margins on sales. If our efforts to reduce our margin support are unsuccessful, we will likely continue to experience significant levels of chargebacks and margin support payments, which may further reduce our profitability resulting in a material adverse effect on our business. We are dependent upon the revenues generated by our licensing alliances and the loss or inability to renew certain licenses could reduce our revenue and consequently reduce our net income. We license brands from third parties for specific products. The term of each of our licenses is generally three years and we typically have the opportunity to renew or extend the licenses, which are sometimes conditioned upon our meeting certain sales targets. We may not be able to renew or extend these licenses on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to renew or extend any one of these licenses, we could experience a decrease in net sales. We may not be able to anticipate consumer preferences and fashion trends, which could negatively affect acceptance of our products by retailers and consumers and result in a significant decrease in net sales. Our failure to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion trends could adversely affect acceptance of our products by retailers and consumers and may result in a significant decrease in net sales or leave us with a substantial amount of unsold inventory. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. We may not be able to continue to develop appealing styles or successfully meet constantly changing consumer demands in the future. In addition, any new products or brands that we introduce may not be received successfully by retailers and consumers. If our products are not received successfully by retailers and consumers and we are left with a substantial amount of unsold inventory, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess inventory. If this occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If our manufacturers fail to use acceptable ethical business practices, our business could be adversely affected. We require our manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. However, we do not control the labor and other business practices of the independent manufacturers of our products. If one of our manufacturers violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the United States, the shipment of products to us could be interrupted and our reputation could be damaged. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 7 Our business could be harmed if we do not deliver quality products in a timely manner. Our sourcing, logistics and technology functions operate within substantial production and delivery requirements and subject us to the risks associated with unaffiliated manufacturers, transportation and other factors. If we do not comply with customer product requirements or meet their delivery requirements, our customers could seek reduced purchase prices, require significant margin support, reduce the amount of business they do with us or cease to do business with us, all of which would adversely affect our business. If we encounter problems with our distribution system, our ability to deliver our products to the market would be adversely affected. We rely on third party distribution facilities to warehouse and to ship product to our customers. Due to the fact that substantially all of our product is distributed from a relatively small number of locations, our operations could be interrupted by earthquakes, floods, fires or other natural disasters near our distribution centers. We maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from the loss of customers. In addition, our distribution capacity is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including transportation of product to and from distribution facilities. If we encounter problems with our distribution system, our inability to meet customer expectations on managing inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies could have a material adverse effect on our business. Labor disruptions at ports or our suppliers’ facilities, manufacturers’ facilities or distribution facilities may adversely affect our business. Our business depends on our ability to source and distribute product in a timely manner. As a result, we rely on the free flow of goods on a consistent basis from our suppliers and manufacturers. Labor disputes at various ports or at our suppliers, manufacturers or our distribution facilities create significant risks for our business, particularly if these disputes result in work slowdowns, lockouts, strikes or other disruptions during our peak importing or manufacturing seasons. An interruption in the flow of goods could have a material adverse effect on our business, potentially resulting in cancelled orders by customers, unanticipated inventory accumulation or shortages and reduced net sales and net income. We rely significantly on information technology and any failure, inadequacy, interruption or security lapse of that technology could adversely affect our ability to effectively operate our business. Our ability to manage and maintain our inventory and internal reports and to ship products to customers and invoice them on a timely basis depends significantly on our internally developed enterprise resource planning system, as approximately 40% of our orders are received electronically. The failure of this system to operate effectively or to integrate with other systems or a breach in security of this system could cause delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, and it could require significant capital investments to remedy any such failure, problem or breach. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry and our failure to compete successfully could result in a loss of one or more significant customers. The apparel industry is highly competitive and fragmented. Our competitors include numerous apparel designers, manufacturers, retailers, importers and licensors, many of which have greater financial and marketing resources than we possess. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the apparel industry are: · brand name and brand identity; · timeliness, reliability and quality of product and services provided; · market share and visibility; · price; and · the ability to anticipate customer and consumer demands. The level of competition and the nature of our competitors vary by product segment with low margin manufacturers being our main competitors in the less expensive segment of the market and with domestic and foreign designers and licensors competing with us in the more upscale segment of the market. Increasingly, we experience competition from our customers' in-house private labels. If we do not maintain our brand names and identities and continue to provide high quality and reliable services on a timely basis at competitive prices, our ability to compete in our industry will be adversely affected. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose one or more of our significant customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and financial performance. 8 We may face challenges in the management of the sales and profitability of any acquisitions that we may make, as well as in integrating the acquired businesses, any of which may negatively impact our business. As part of our growth strategy, we have acquired and licensed, and in the future, may acquire or license new brands and product categories. We may also make strategic acquisitions in addition to Rio. Acquisitions have inherent risks, including the risk that the projected sales and net income from the acquisition may not be generated, the risk that the integration of the acquired business is more costly and takes longer than anticipated, the risk of diversion of the attention and resources of management, risks associated with additional customer concentration and related credit risk, risks of retaining key personnel and risks associated with unanticipated events and unknown legal liabilities despite the due diligence efforts that we undertake. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be subject to the impairment of acquired intangible assets. When we acquire a business, a portion of the purchase price of the acquisition may be allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, our goodwill and intangible assets were approximately $17.2 million and $18.6 million, respectively. We conduct an annual review, and more frequent reviews if events or circumstances dictate, to determine whether goodwill is impaired. We also determine whether impairment indicators are present related to our identifiable intangible assets. If we determine that goodwill or other intangible assets are impaired, we would be required to write down the value of these assets. The ultimate resolution of income and other possible tax liabilities may require us to incur expense beyond amounts reserved on our balance sheet or make cash payments beyond those that we anticipated. The ultimate resolution of income and other possible tax liabilities may require us to incur expense beyond amounts reserved on our balance sheet or make cash payments beyond those that we anticipated. Our historic income and other tax positions may be challenged by the appropriate taxing authorities. We believe that we have provided adequate reserves for these tax positions for all periods open under the applicable statutes of limitations, but a challenge by a taxing authority could prove costly to defend as well as to resolve. If the actual liability for taxes exceeds our reserves, earnings could be materially adversely affected, and we may be required to make cash payments beyond what we anticipated. Utilization of our net operating losses and tax credit carry-forwards may be subject to substantial annual limitations due to the ownership change limitations provided by the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”) Section 382. Such annual limitations could result in the expiration of the net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards before their utilization. The events that may cause ownership changes include, but are not limited to, a cumulative stock ownership change of greater than 50% over a three year period. Calculating whether an ownership change has occurred is subject to uncertainty, both because of the complexity of Section 382 of the Code and because of limitations on a publicly-traded company's knowledge as to the ownership of, and transactions in, its securities. Therefore, the calculation of the amount of our net operating loss carryforwards may be changed as a result of a challenge by a governmental authority or our learning of new information about the ownership of, and transactions in, our securities. Our ability to fully utilize our net operating losses could be limited if there are future ownership changes that, together with certain ownership changes in our common stock that have occurred during any prior three year period (including, as of the date hereof, any shares issued in connection with the Rio transaction), result in a “change of control” for the purposes of Section 382. Rio is authorized to operate under the Honduran Free Trade Zone Regime (“FTZ”). Therefore, Rio qualifies for exemption from Honduran customs duties, charges and surcharges, internal consumption, production sales tax and other excise taxes on imported and exported goods. Rio is also exempt from municipal taxes, asset taxes and income taxes, provided that Rio does not benefit from income tax exemption granted in another country. In order to maintain the FTZ exemption, Rio must export at least 95% of its annual production. Rio currently exports 99% of its production. Although the FTZ is indefinite by nature, subsequent repeal or modification of the FTZ, or any failure to qualify for the aforementioned exemptions, could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Significant changes to international trade regulations could adversely affect our results of operations. A large portion of our products are manufactured in Honduras. We therefore benefit from the Dominican Republic – Central America Free Trade Agreement (“DR-CAFTA”). Our claims for duty free or reduced duty treatment under DR-CAFTA and other available programs are largely conditioned on our ability to produce or obtain accurate records, some of which are provided to us by third parties, about production processes and sources of raw materials. Subsequent repeal or modification of DR-CAFTA, or the inadequacy or unavailability of supporting records, could materially adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our products are subject to foreign competition, which in the past has been faced with significant U.S. government import restrictions. The extent of import protection afforded to domestic apparel producers has been, and is likely to remain, subject to political considerations. The elimination of import protections for domestic apparel producers could significantly increase global competition, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, any failure to comply with international trade regulations could cause us to become subject to investigation resulting in significant penalties or claims or an inability to conduct our business, adversely affecting our results of operations. 9 We are dependent on certain key personnel, the loss of whom could negatively impact our ability to manage our business and thereby adversely affect our business. Our future success depends to a significant extent on retaining the services of key executive officers, other key members of management and directors. The loss of the services of any one of these individuals, or any other key member of management, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The stockholders’ rights plan adopted by the Board of Directors in 2008 may inhibit takeovers and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In 2008, our Board of Directors (“Board”) approved the creation of our Series A Preferred Stock and adopted a stockholders’ rights plan pursuant to which it declared a dividend of one Series A Preferred Stock purchase right for each share of our common stock held by stockholders of record. The preferred share purchase rights will also attach to any additional shares of common stock issued. Initially, these rights will not be exercisable and will trade with the shares of our common stock. Under the rights plan, these rights will generally be exercisable only if a person or group acquires, or commences a tender or exchange offer, for 15% or more of our common stock. If the rights become exercisable, each right will permit its holder to purchase one one-thousandth of a share of Series A Preferred Stock for the exercise price of $33.00 per right. The rights plan also contains customary “flip-in” and “flip-over” provisions such that if a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of fifteen percent or more of our common stock, each right will permit its holder, other than the acquiring person or group, to purchase shares of our common stock for a price equal to the quotient obtained by dividing $33.00 per right by one-half the then current market price of our common stock. In addition, if, after a person acquires such ownership, we are later acquired in a merger or similar transaction, each right will permit its holder, other than the acquiring person or group, to purchase shares of the acquiring corporation’s stock for a price equal to the quotient obtained by dividing $33.00 per right by one-half of the then current market price of the acquiring company’s common stock, based on the market price of the acquiring corporation’s stock prior to such merger. The stockholders’ rights plan and the associated Series A Preferred Stock purchase rights may discourage a hostile takeover and prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium over the prevailing market price for the shares of our common stock. Global economic, political and social conditions may harm our ability to do business, increase our costs and negatively affect our stock price. Global credit and financial markets have experienced extreme disruptions in recent years, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates and uncertainty about economic stability. While the decline in consumer spending has recently moderated, these economic conditions could still lead to continued declines in consumer spending and may have resulted in a resetting of consumer spending habits that makes it unlikely that such spending will return to prior levels for the foreseeable future which in turn may lead to further decreases in our net sales or a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial position and cash flows. Economic conditions have also led to a highly promotional environment and strong discounting pressure from our customers, which have had a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. This promotional environment may continue even after economic growth returns, as we expect that consumer spending trends are likely to remain below historical levels for the foreseeable future. The price of purchased yarn and other raw materials used by us or our suppliers is prone to significant fluctuations and volatility. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the fabrics or other raw materials used to manufacture our products could have a material adverse effect on our cost of goods sold or our ability to meet our customers’ demands. The prices for fabrics depend largely on the market prices for the raw materials used to produce them. The price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors. At times in the past we have experienced significant upward pressure on each of the foregoing cost inputs, which resulted in pressure on our gross margin. Whenever possible, we pass along these cost increases to our customers through higher selling prices. Should our customers not accept such increases or should they accept them in the first instance, but fail to achieve higher average unit retails thereby increasing their need for margin support from us, our profitability may be materially adversely affected. 10 The price of energy and fuel costs are prone to significant fluctuations and volatility which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our manufacturing operations and those of our suppliers require high inputs of energy, and therefore changes in energy prices directly impact our gross profits. In addition, we incur significant shipping and freight costs to transport goods from our offshore facility and suppliers’ offshore facilities to the United States. The cost of energy and fuel fluctuate due to a number of factors outside our control, including government policy and regulation and weather conditions. We continue to focus on manufacturing methods that will reduce the amount of energy used in the production of our products to mitigate risks of fluctuations in the cost of energy. However, significant increases in energy and fuel prices may make us less competitive as compared to others in the industry, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be restricted in our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility. Significant operating losses or significant uses of cash in our operations could cause us to default on our asset-based revolving credit facility. Our ability to borrow under the credit facility depends on our accounts receivable and inventory levels. A significant deterioration in our accounts receivable or inventory levels could restrict our ability to borrow funds. In addition, the credit facility includes customary conditions to funding, representations and warranties, covenants and events of default. The covenants include, among other things, limitations on asset sales, consolidations, mergers, liens, indebtedness, loans, investments, guaranties, acquisitions, dividends, stock repurchases and transactions with affiliates. An event of default under the credit facility could result in an acceleration of our obligations under the agreement, in the foreclosure on any assets subject to liens in favor of the credit facility’s lenders, and in our inability to borrow additional amounts under the credit facility. We may be unable to realize expected benefits from our restructuring and cost savings plan In order to operate more efficiently and control costs, we announce from time to time restructuring and cost savings plans, such as our ongoing cost savings plan implemented in 2012, which may include workforce reductions and other cost reduction initiatives. These plans are intended to generate operating expense savings through selling, general and administrative expense reductions as well as other savings. We may undertake further workforce reductions or restructuring actions in the future. These types of cost reduction and restructuring activities are complex. If we do not successfully manage our current restructuring activities, or any other restructuring activities that we may undertake in the future, expected efficiencies and benefits might be delayed or not realized, and our operations and business could be disrupted. Risks associated with these actions include delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions, additional unexpected costs and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees, any of which may impair our ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions or may otherwise harm our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 