ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our auditors have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our audited financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2011, were prepared under the assumption that we would continue our operations as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has included a “going concern” explanatory paragraph in its report on our financial statements for the years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 indicating that we have incurred recurring losses from operations and have limited working capital to pursue our business alternatives, and that these factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Continued operations are dependent on our receipt of funding that an investor has agreed to provide pursuant to a common stock purchase agreement, or on our ability to complete other funding transactions. Such other transactions may not be available or may not be available on reasonable terms. We expect negative cash flow from operations to continue for the foreseeable future, with the need to continue or expand development programs and to commercialize products once regulatory approvals have been obtained. The above conditions, as well as the circumstances described below under the heading, “We will require additional financing,” raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Without additional funds from debt or equity financing, sales of assets, sales or out-licenses of intellectual property or technologies, or from a business combination or a similar transaction, we will exhaust our resources and will be unable to continue operations. If we cannot continue as a viable entity, our stockholders would likely lose most or all of their investment in us. We will require additional financing. We have incurred net losses of approximately $6,980,000 and $6,707,000 for the years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Since inception, and through March 31, 2011, we have an accumulated deficit of approximately $25,867,000. At March 31, 2011, we had approximately $1,239,000 in cash and cash equivalents and had no accounts receivable. We previously entered into a common stock purchase agreement with an investor in November 2010 pursuant to which the investor purchased $5 million of our common stock at a price of $.25 per share. The purchase agreement provides for two potential subsequent closings pursuant to which the investor agreed to invest $2.5 million at each such closing if the milestones relating to that milestone closing have been achieved and certain other customary closing conditions, including the absence of a material adverse event affecting us and our representations and warranties in the purchase agreement being true and correct as of the date of the milestone closing, are satisfied. The two sets of milestones primarily relate to our telomerase prostate cancer technology and to our APC-100 prostate cancer product candidate, and include completion of manufacturing the compound, filing an IND with the FDA to begin a clinical trial relating to the product candidate, and submission to an Institutional Review Board of the protocol relating to the planned trial for the product candidate. - 30 - Pursuant to an amendment to the purchase agreement dated as of June 30, 2011, the investor agreed that we had satisfied the first set of milestone conditions. The investor and we agreed that the $2.5 million investment for the first milestone closing would be paid as follows: $550,000 on or before June 27, 2011; $550,000 on or before July 21, 2011; and $1,400,000 on or before September 29, 2011. We received $550,000 from the investor representing the initial payment relating to the first milestone closing under the terms of the agreement as amended. The investor also agreed to extend the outside date for achievement of the second set of milestones to December 31, 2011. We currently believe that we will achieve the milestone conditions relating to the second $2.5 million milestone closing before that date. If the investor makes the investments that it has agreed under the purchase agreement and the amendment to make relating to the first milestone closing, and if we achieve the second milestone conditions and receive funding as provided in the agreement relating to the second milestones, then we believe that our cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to fund our operations at least through our fiscal year ending March 31, 2012, absent unexpected developments, although proceeding with the PFS Syringe product approval and commercialization efforts would require additional funding. However, if we do not obtain funding from other sources, we will be substantially dependent on receipt of the funds described above, and if we do not achieve the second milestone events or if the investor does not invest the amounts described above, our cash resources would rapidly be depleted and we would be required to materially reduce or cease operations. Our management intends to address any shortfall of working capital, whether as a result of not receiving funds from the investor, not satisfying the additional milestones under the purchase agreement with the investor, or otherwise, by attempting to secure additional funding through equity or debt financings, sales or out-licensing of intellectual property assets, seeking partnerships with other pharmaceutical companies or third parties to co-develop and fund research and development efforts, or similar transactions. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any sources of funding. If we are unsuccessful in securing funding from any of these sources, we will defer, reduce or eliminate certain planned expenditures. There is no assurance that any of the above options will be implemented on a timely basis or that we will be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, if at all. Alternatively, we may be required to accept less than favorable commercial terms in any such future arrangements. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we could be required to delay development or commercialization of some or all of our products, to license to third parties the rights to commercialize certain products that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize internally or to reduce resources devoted to product development. If we did not have sufficient funds to continue operations, we could be required to seek bankruptcy protection or other alternatives that would likely result in our stockholders losing some or all of their investment in us. Any failure to dispel any continuing doubts about our ability to continue as a going concern could adversely affect our ability to enter into collaborative relationships with business partners, make it more difficult to obtain required financing on favorable terms or at all, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Statements in this Annual Report, including concerning our anticipated or intended target dates for development and commercialization of our various product candidates, and for the commencement of clinical trials relating to product candidates, assume that we will have sufficient funding to support the timely conduct of clinical trials, pay required fees and expenses relating to obtaining regulatory approvals, and timely introduce and support products once launched. Failure to have sufficient funding could require us to delay product launches or clinical trials, which would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations and which could increase the need for additional financing in the future. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of revenue to finance our cash requirements, which we may never do, we expect to finance future cash needs primarily through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, revenues from strategic collaborations, or sales or licenses of assets or intellectual property. Sales of additional equity securities will dilute our current stockholders’ ownership. We do not know whether additional financing will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are not able to secure additional equity or debt financing when needed on acceptable terms, we may have to sell some of our assets or enter into a strategic collaboration for one or more of our product candidate programs at an earlier stage of development than would otherwise be desired. This could lower the economic value of these collaborations to us. In addition, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our clinical trials or research and development programs, or ultimately, cease operations. - 31 - We have incurred losses since our inception, and we anticipate that we will continue to incur losses. We may never achieve or sustain profitability. We incurred net losses of approximately $25,867,000 since inception and net losses of approximately $6,980,000 for our fiscal year ended March 31, 2011. These losses may increase as we continue our research and development activities, seek regulatory approvals for our product candidates and commercialize any approved products. These losses may cause, among other things, our stockholders’ equity and working capital to decrease. The future earnings and cash flow from operations of our business are dependent, in part, on our ability to further develop our products and on revenues and profitability from sales of our allergy and respiratory products and product candidates. There can be no assurance that we will grow or be profitable. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient product revenue to become profitable at all or on a sustained basis. We expect to have quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenues and expenses, some of which could be significant, due to expanded manufacturing, marketing, research, development, and clinical trial activities. If our product candidates fail in clinical trials or do not gain regulatory approval, or if our products do not achieve market acceptance, we may never become profitable. As we commercialize and market products, we will need to incur expenses for product marketing and brand awareness and conduct significant research, development, testing and regulatory compliance activities that, together with projected general and administrative expenses, are expected to result in substantial operating losses for the foreseeable future. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our limited operating history may make it difficult to evaluate our business and our future viability. We are in the early stage of operations and development and have only a limited operating history on which to base an evaluation of our business and prospects, having commenced operations in 2006. Moreover, we acquired Adamis Labs, formerly Healthcare Ventures Group, during calendar year 2007. Similarly, we acquired rights to the technologies underlying APC-100, APC-200 and APC-300, and the telomerase technology, during 2010 and 2011. We are subject to the risks inherent in the ownership and operation of a company with a limited operating history, such as regulatory setbacks and delays, fluctuations in expenses, competition, the general strength of regional and national economies, and governmental regulation. Any failure to successfully address these risks and uncertainties could seriously harm our business and prospects. We may not succeed given the technological, marketing, strategic and competitive challenges we will face. The likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the expenses, difficulties, complications, problems and delays frequently encountered in connection with the growth of a new business, the continuing development of new drug development technology, and the competitive and regulatory environment in which we operate or may choose to operate in the future. Some of our potential products and technologies are in early stages of development. The development of new pharmaceutical products is a highly risky undertaking, and there can be no assurance that any future research and development efforts we might undertake will be successful. Our potential products in oncology and viral fields will require extensive additional research and development before any commercial introduction, as will research and development work on the generic nasal steroid product and other allergy and respiratory products. There can be no assurance that any future research, development or clinical trial efforts will result in viable products or meet efficacy standards. Future clinical or preclinical results may be negative or insufficient to allow us to successfully market our product candidates. Obtaining needed data and results may take longer than planned or may not be obtained at all. Any such delays or setbacks could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our financial goals. Our corporate compliance programs cannot guarantee that we are now or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. - 32 - The development, manufacturing, pricing, sales, and reimbursement of pharmaceutical products, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and other authorities within the United States and numerous entities outside of the United States. We are a small company and we rely on third parties to conduct certain important functions. We also have significantly fewer employees than many other companies that have the same or fewer product candidates in clinical development. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, including suspension or termination of clinical trials, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, or other sanctions or litigation. In addition, as a publicly-traded company, we are subject to significant regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program and continues to update the program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we cannot assure you that we are now or will be in compliance with all such applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with potentially applicable laws and regulations could also lead to the imposition of fines, cause the value of our common stock to decline and impede our ability to raise capital or lead to the failure of our common stock to continue to be traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. We are subject to substantial government regulation, which could materially adversely affect our business. The production and marketing of our products and potential products and our ongoing research and development, pre-clinical testing and clinical trial activities are currently subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities in the United States and will face similar regulation and review for overseas approval and sales from governmental authorities outside of the United States. Some of the product candidates that we are currently developing must undergo rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing and an extensive regulatory approval process before they can be marketed. This process makes it longer, more difficult and more costly to bring our potential products to market, and we cannot guarantee that any of our potential products will be approved. The pre-marketing approval process can be particularly expensive, uncertain and lengthy, and a number of products for which FDA approval has been sought by other companies have never been approved for marketing. In addition to testing and approval procedures, extensive regulations also govern marketing, manufacturing, distribution, labeling, and record-keeping procedures. If we or our collaboration partners do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, such violations could result in non-approval, suspensions of regulatory approvals, civil penalties and criminal fines, product seizures and recalls, operating restrictions, injunctions, and criminal prosecution. Withdrawal or rejection of FDA or other government entity approval of our potential products may also adversely affect our business. Such rejection may be encountered due to, among other reasons, lack of efficacy during clinical trials, unforeseen safety issues, inability to follow patients after treatment in clinical trials, inconsistencies between early clinical trial results and results obtained in later clinical trials, varying interpretations of data generated by clinical trials, or changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development in the United States and abroad. In the United States, there is stringent FDA oversight in product clearance and enforcement activities, causing medical product development to experience longer approval cycles, greater risk and uncertainty, and higher expenses. Internationally, there is a risk that we may not be successful in meeting the quality standards or other certification requirements. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, this approval may entail limitations on uses for which the product may be labeled and promoted, or may prevent us from broadening the uses of our current or potential products for different applications. In addition, we may not receive FDA approval to export our potential products in the future, and countries to which potential products are to be exported may not approve them for import. Manufacturing facilities for our products will also be subject to continual governmental review and inspection. The FDA has stated publicly that compliance with manufacturing regulations will continue to be strictly scrutinized. To the extent we decide to manufacture our own products, a governmental authority may challenge our compliance with applicable federal, state and foreign regulations. In addition, any discovery of previously unknown problems with one of our potential products or facilities may result in restrictions on the potential product or the facility. If we decide to outsource the commercial production of our products, any challenge by a regulatory authority of the compliance of the manufacturer could hinder our ability to bring our products to market. Some of our allergy and respiratory products that have been drug listed with the FDA are marketed without an approved new drug application or abbreviated new drug application. The FDA could at some future date seek to prevent marketing of these products, require that such products be marketed only after submission and approval of drug applications, or take other regulatory action against us with respect to these products, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. - 33 - Several of our allergy and respiratory products, including AeroHist Caplets, AeroHist Plus Caplets, AeroKid Oral Liquid and AeroOtic HC Ear Drops, and the PFS Syringe product, were not the subject of a new drug application or ANDA, and have not been specifically approved by the FDA for marketing by us. These products have been marketed for many years and, we believe, are similarly situated to products marketed by many companies that are marketed without an approved new drug application or abbreviated new drug application. The products are drug listed with the FDA in the National Drug Code Directory but such listing does not constitute FDA approval of the products. In June 2006, the FDA issued a Compliance Policy Guide for Marketed Unapproved Drugs, which addressed some of the considerations utilized by the FDA in exercising its discretion with respect to products marketed without FDA approval. The guide does not establish legally enforceable responsibilities on the FDA and generally only represents the agency’s current thinking on a topic. The guide emphasizes that any product that is being marketed without required FDA approvals is subject to FDA enforcement action at any time. If the FDA were to issue a Federal Register Notice outlining revised conditions for marketing, which could include calling for the submission of an application for products such as our cough/cold products, then we would take appropriate action so as to be in compliance with any such policies. The FDA might also require clinical trials in support of any such applications, and we would need to evaluate our alternatives in light of the costs required to conduct such trials, which could be substantial, compared to the economic benefit to us from such products. In addition, independently of such actions, at any time the FDA could also exercise its discretion to proceed against us and require immediate withdrawal of the PFS Syringe product or other products from the market, or prohibit us from marketing the PFS Syringe product or one or more of such other products without first conducting required trials and obtaining approvals, or impose other penalties on us. As described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, in 2010 the FDA issued a warning letter indicating that we should not market the PFS Syringe product without FDA marketing approval and that the product may be sold only after an application has been submitted to the FDA and approved. Some of our unapproved allergy and respiratory products include extended release formulations, which may subject us to a higher risk of FDA enforcement action. Such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be unable to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, regulatory approval, or may not be successful in commercializing our planned and future products. Like many companies our size, we do not have the ability to conduct preclinical or clinical studies for our product candidates without the assistance of third parties who conduct the studies on our behalf. These third parties are usually toxicology facilities and clinical research organizations, or CROs, that have significant resources and experience in the conduct of pre-clinical and clinical studies. The toxicology facilities conduct the pre-clinical safety studies as well as all associated tasks connected with these studies. The CROs typically perform patient recruitment, project management, data management, statistical analysis, and other reporting functions. We intend to rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials of our product candidates and to use different toxicology facilities and CROs for our pre-clinical and clinical studies. Our reliance on these third parties for development activities will reduce our control over these activities. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or for other reasons, we may be required to replace them, and our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated. Although we believe there are a number of third-party contractors that we could engage to continue these activities, replacing a third-party contractor may result in a delay of the affected trial. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing of our product candidates could result in increased costs and delay our ability to generate significant revenues. - 34 - Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could significantly impact our product development costs. We do not know whether current or planned clinical trials will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in: ● obtaining required funding; ● obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; ● reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations and clinical trial sites; ● obtaining sufficient quantities of clinical trial materials for any or all product candidates; ● obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; and ● recruiting participants for a clinical trial. In addition, once a clinical trial has begun, it may be suspended or terminated by us or the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: ● failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements; ● inspection of the clinical trial operations or clinical trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; ● failure to achieve certain efficacy and/or safety standards; or ● lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. Clinical trials require sufficient participant enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the target population, the nature of the trial protocol, the proximity of participants to clinical trial sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the eligibility criteria for our clinical trials and competing trials. Delays in enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times. Our failure to enroll participants in our clinical trials could delay the completion of the clinical trials beyond current expectations. In addition, the FDA could require us to conduct clinical trials with a larger number of participants than we may project for any of our product candidates. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of participants in a timely or cost-effective manner. Furthermore, enrolled participants may drop out of clinical trials, which could impair the validity or statistical significance of the clinical trials. A number of factors can influence the discontinuation rate, including, but not limited to: the inclusion of a placebo in a trial; possible lack of effect of the product candidate being tested at one or more of the dose levels being tested; adverse side effects experienced, whether or not related to the product candidate; and the availability of numerous alternative treatment options that may induce participants to discontinue from the trial. We, the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a product candidate at any time if we or they believe the participants in such clinical trials, or in independent third-party clinical trials for drugs based on similar technologies, are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We, and the persons who were our officers and directors at the time of the activities that are subject of the lawsuit, have been named defendants in a lawsuit alleging, among other things, that we made material misrepresentations in private placement memoranda used to offer our common stock to the plaintiffs. In addition, a lawsuit has been filed against us for declaratory relief seeking a declaration that certain patent licenses held by us are invalid. Although we believe the lawsuits are without merit and that we have substantial defenses to these lawsuits, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could adversely affect our results of operations, our financial condition and liquidity. We are subject to the risk of clinical trial and product liability lawsuits. - 35 - The testing of human health care product candidates entails an inherent risk of allegations of clinical trial liability, while the marketing and sale of approved products entails an inherent risk of allegations of product liability. We currently maintain liability insurance coverage of $5,000,000. However, as we conduct additional clinical trials and introduce products into the United States market, the risk of adverse events increases and our requirements for liability insurance coverage are likely to increase. We are subject to the risk that substantial liability claims from the testing or marketing of pharmaceutical products could be asserted against us in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain insurance on acceptable terms, particularly in overseas locations, for clinical and commercial activities or that any insurance obtained will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. Moreover, our current and future coverages may not be adequate to protect us from all of the liabilities that we may incur. If losses from liability claims exceed our insurance coverage, we may incur substantial liabilities that exceed our financial resources. In addition, a product or clinical trial liability action against us would be expensive and time-consuming to defend, even if we ultimately prevailed. If we are required to pay a claim, we may not have sufficient financial resources and our business and results of operations may be harmed. We do not have commercial-scale manufacturing capability, and we lack commercial manufacturing experience. We will likely rely on third parties to manufacture and supply our product candidates. We do not own or operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of product candidates. We do not have any experience in drug formulation or manufacturing, and we lack the resources and the capability to manufacture any of our product candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. Accordingly, we expect to depend on third-party contract manufacturers for the foreseeable future. Any performance failure on the part of our contract manufacturers could delay clinical development, regulatory approval or commercialization of our current or future product candidates, depriving us of potential product revenue and resulting in additional losses. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up initial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control (including stability of the product candidate and quality assurance testing), shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. If our third-party contract manufacturers were to encounter any of these difficulties or otherwise fail to comply with their obligations or under applicable regulations, our ability to provide product candidates to patients in our clinical trials or commercially would be jeopardized. As an example, our PFS Syringe product is currently manufactured by Catalent Pharma Solutions (an FDA licensed and approved cGMP facility) in Brussels, Belgium and, therefore, is subject to regulation by the Belgian Ministry of Health as well as the FDA. If we file an application for marketing approval of the product and the FDA grants marketing approval, any delay or interruption in the supply of product could delay the commercial launch of the product or impair our ability to meet demand for the product. Difficulties in supplying products for clinical trials could increase the costs associated with our clinical trial programs and, depending upon the period of delay, require us to commence new trials or qualify new manufacturers at significant additional expense, possibly causing commercial delays or termination of the trials. Our products can only be manufactured in a facility that has undergone a satisfactory inspection by the FDA and other relevant regulatory authorities. For these reasons, we may not be able to replace manufacturing capacity for our products quickly if we or our contract manufacturer(s) were unable to use manufacturing facilities as a result of a fire, natural disaster (including an earthquake), equipment failure, or other difficulty, or if such facilities were deemed not in compliance with the regulatory requirements and such non-compliance could not be rapidly rectified. An inability or reduced capacity to manufacture our products would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we fail to obtain acceptable prices or appropriate reimbursement for our products, our ability to successfully commercialize our products will be impaired. - 36 - Government and insurance reimbursements for healthcare expenditures play an important role for all healthcare providers, including physicians and pharmaceutical companies such as Adamis that plan to offer various products in the United States and other countries in the future. Our ability to earn sufficient returns on our products and potential products will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of such products will be available from government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers, managed care organizations, and other organizations. In the United States, our ability to have our products eligible for Medicare, Medicaid or private insurance reimbursement will be an important factor in determining the ultimate success of our products. If, for any reason, Medicare, Medicaid or the insurance companies decline to provide reimbursement for our products, our ability to commercialize our products would be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that our potential drug products will be eligible for reimbursement. There has been a trend toward declining government and private insurance expenditures for many healthcare items and this trend may accelerate with proposed healthcare reform legislation. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price of medical and pharmaceutical products. If purchasers or users of our products and related treatments are not able to obtain appropriate reimbursement for the cost of using such products, they may forego or reduce such use. Even if our products are approved for reimbursement by Medicare, Medicaid and private insurers, of which there can be no assurance, the amount of reimbursement may be reduced at times or even eliminated. This would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved pharmaceutical products, and there can be no assurance that adequate third-party coverage will be available. Legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system may affect our ability to sell our products profitably. In both the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been and are expected to be a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the healthcare system in ways that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act signed into law in the United States on March 22, 2010. In recent years, new legislation has been enacted in the United States at the federal and state levels that effects major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. These new laws include a prescription drug benefit plan for Medicare beneficiaries and certain changes in Medicare reimbursement. Given the recent enactment of these laws, it is still too early to determine their impact on the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries and our business. The U.S. Congress continues to consider issues relating to the healthcare system, and future legislation or regulations may affect our ability to market and sell products on favorable terms, which would affect our results of operations as well as our ability to raise capital, obtain additional collaborators or profitably market our products. Such legislation or regulation may reduce our revenues, increase our expenses or limit the markets for our products. In particular, we expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of our products due to the trend toward managed health care, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals. We have limited sales, marketing and distribution experience. We have limited experience in the sales, marketing, and distribution of pharmaceutical products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to establish sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with our current collaborators or others to perform such activities or that such efforts will be successful. If we decide to market any of our new products directly, we must either acquire or internally develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capabilities. The acquisition or development of a sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure would require substantial resources, which may not be available to us or, even if available, divert the attention of our management and key personnel, and have a negative impact on further product development efforts. We may seek to enter into arrangements to develop and commercialize our products. These collaborations, if secured, may not be successful. - 37 - We have entered into arrangements with third parties regarding development and commercialization of some of our products and may in the future seek to enter into collaborative arrangements to develop and commercialize some of our potential products both in North America and international markets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate collaborative arrangements on favorable terms or at all or that our current or future collaborative arrangements will be successful. Our strategy for the future research, development, and commercialization of our products is expected to be based in part on entering into various arrangements with corporate collaborators, licensors, licensees, health care institutions and principal investigators and others, and our commercial success is dependent upon these outside parties performing their respective contractual obligations responsibly and with integrity. The amount and timing of resources such third parties will devote to these activities may not be within our control. There can be no assurance that such parties will perform their obligations as expected. There can be no assurance that our collaborators will devote adequate resources to our products. If we are not successful in acquiring or licensing additional product candidates on acceptable terms, if at all, our business may be adversely affected. As part of our strategy, we may acquire or license additional product candidates that it believes have growth potential. There are no assurances that we will be able to identify promising product candidates. Even if we are successful in identifying promising product candidates, we may not be able to reach an agreement for the acquisition or license of the product candidates with their owners on acceptable terms or at all. We may not be able to successfully identify any other commercial products or product candidates to in-license, acquire or internally develop. Moreover, negotiating and implementing an economically viable in-licensing arrangement or acquisition is a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater resources, may compete with us for the in-licensing or acquisition of product candidates and approved products. We may not be able to acquire or in-license the rights to additional product candidates and approved products on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. If we are unable to in-license or acquire additional commercial products or product candidates, our ability to grow our business or increase our profits could be severely limited. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective than our product candidates or obtain regulatory and marketing approval for similar products before we do, our commercial opportunity may be reduced or eliminated. The development and commercialization of new pharmaceutical products that target certain cancers and viral conditions, and allergy and other respiratory conditions, is a highly competitive field, and we face competition from numerous sources, including major biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies worldwide. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and technical resources, and development, production and marketing capabilities than we do. In addition, many of these companies have more experience than we do in pre-clinical testing, clinical trials and manufacturing of compounds, as well as in obtaining FDA and foreign regulatory approvals. We also compete with academic institutions, governmental agencies and private organizations that are conducting research in the same fields. Competition among these entities to recruit and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and professional personnel and consultants is also intense. As a result, there is a risk that one of our competitors will develop a more effective product for the same indications for which we are developing a product or, alternatively, bring a similar product to market before we can do so. Failure to successfully compete will adversely impact the ability to raise additional capital and ultimately achieve profitable operations. If we suffer negative publicity concerning the safety of our products in development, our sales may be harmed and we may be forced to withdraw such products. - 38 - If concerns should arise about the safety of any of our products that are marketed, regardless of whether or not such concerns have a basis in generally accepted science or peer-reviewed scientific research, such concerns could adversely affect the market for these products. Similarly, negative publicity could result in an increased number of product liability claims, whether or not these claims are supported by applicable law. Our failure to adequately protect or to enforce our intellectual property rights or secure rights to third party patents could materially harm our proprietary position in the marketplace or prevent the commercialization of our products. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain protection in the United States and other countries for the intellectual property covering or incorporated into our technologies and products. The patents and patent applications in our existing patent portfolio are either owned by us or licensed to us. Our ability to protect our product candidates from unauthorized use or infringement by third parties depends substantially on our ability to obtain and maintain valid and enforceable patents. Due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, our ability to obtain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles are unresolved. There is a substantial backlog of patent applications at the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO. Patents in the United States are issued to the party that is first to invent the claimed invention. There can be no assurance that any patent applications relating to our products or methods will be issued as patents, or, if issued, that the patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted thereunder will provide a competitive advantage. We may not be able to obtain patent rights on products, treatment methods or manufacturing processes that we may develop or to which we may obtain license or other rights. Even if we do obtain patents, rights under any issued patents may not provide us with sufficient protection for our product candidates or provide sufficient protection to afford us a commercial advantage against our competitors or their competitive products or processes. It is possible that no patents will be issued from any pending or future patent applications owned by us or licensed to us. Others may challenge, seek to invalidate, infringe or circumvent any patents we own or license. Alternatively, we may in the future be required to initiate litigation against third parties to enforce our intellectual property rights. The defense and prosecution of patent and intellectual property claims are both costly and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. Any adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to license disputed rights from others, or require us to cease selling our future products. In addition, many other organizations are engaged in research and product development efforts that may overlap with our products. For example, our PFS Syringe product competes against other self-administered epinephrine products, including EpiPen, EpiPen Jr. and Twinject; our allergy and respiratory products will compete with numerous prescription and non-prescription over-the-counter products targeting similar conditions; numerous companies are engaged in research, development and marketing of cancer drugs and have extensive patent portfolios relating to their drug products; and with regard to the Savvy product candidate, Ortho Pharmaceuticals and many other companies offer contraceptive vaginal gel products. Such organizations may currently have, or may obtain in the future, legally blocking proprietary rights, including patent rights, in one or more products or methods under development or consideration by us. These rights may prevent us from commercializing technology, or may require us to obtain a license from the organizations to use the technology. We may not be able to obtain any such licenses that may be required on reasonable financial terms, if at all, and cannot be sure that the patents underlying any such licenses will be valid or enforceable. As with other companies in the pharmaceutical industry, we are subject to the risk that persons located in other countries will engage in development, marketing or sales activities of products that would infringe our patent rights if such activities were conducted in the United States. Our patents also may not afford protection against competitors with similar technology. We may not have identified all patents, published applications or published literature that affect our business either by blocking our ability to commercialize our product candidates, by preventing the patentability of our products or by covering the same or similar technologies that may affect our ability to market or license our product candidates. For example, patent applications filed with the USPTO are maintained in confidence for up to 18 months after their filing. In some cases, however, patent applications filed with the USPTO remain confidential for the entire time before - 39 - issuance as a U.S. patent. Patent applications filed in countries outside the United States are not typically published until at least 18 months from their first filing date. Similarly, publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries. Therefore, we or our licensors might not have been the first to invent, or the first to file, patent applications on our product candidates or for their use. The laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States, and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending these rights in foreign jurisdictions. If we encounter such difficulties or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in either the United States or foreign jurisdictions, our business prospects could be substantially harmed. Our management will be required to devote substantial time to comply with public company regulations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC, impose various requirements on public companies, including with respect to corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these requirements. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our compliance with Section 404 may require that we incur substantial accounting and related expense and expend significant management efforts. We may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff to satisfy the ongoing requirements of Section 404. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities. We may be required to suspend, repeat or terminate our clinical trials if the trials are not well designed, do not meet regulatory requirements or the results are negative or inconclusive, which may result in significant negative repercussions on business and financial condition. Before regulatory approval for any potential product can be obtained, we must undertake extensive clinical testing on humans to demonstrate the tolerability and efficacy of the product, both on its own terms, and as compared to the other principal drugs on the market that have the same therapeutic indication. We cannot assure you that we will obtain authorization to permit product candidates that are already in the preclinical development phase to enter the human clinical testing phase. In addition, we cannot assure you that any authorized preclinical or clinical testing will be completed successfully within any specified time period by us, or without significant additional resources or expertise to those originally expected to be necessary. We cannot assure you that such testing will show potential products to be safe and efficacious or that any such product will be approved for a specific indication. Further, the results from preclinical studies and early clinical trials may not be indicative of the results that will be obtained in later-stage clinical trials. In addition, we or regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials at any time on the basis that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. Completion of clinical tests depends on, among other things, the number of patients available for testing, which is a function of many factors, including the number of patients with the relevant conditions, the nature of the clinical testing, the proximity of patients to clinical testing centers, the eligibility criteria for tests as well as competition with other clinical testing programs involving the same patient profile but different treatments. We will rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations and/or co-operative groups, to assist us in overseeing and monitoring clinical trials as well as to process the clinical results and manage test requests, which may result in delays or failure to complete trials, if the third parties fail to perform or to meet the applicable standards. A failure by us or such third parties to keep to the terms of a product program development for any particular product candidate or to complete the clinical trials for a product candidate in the envisaged time frame could have significant negative repercussions on our business and financial condition. - 40 - Even if we receive regulatory approval to market our product candidates, such products may not gain the market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community. Any products that we may develop may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community even if they ultimately receive regulatory approval. If these products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we, or future collaborators, may not be able to generate material product revenues and we may not become profitable. The degree of market acceptance of any of our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: ● demonstration of efficacy and safety in clinical trials; ● the prevalence and severity of any unexpected side effects; ● the introduction and availability of generic substitutes for any of our products, potentially at lower prices (which, in turn, will depend on the strength of our intellectual property protection for such products); ● potential or perceived advantages over alternative treatments; ● the timing of market entry relative to competitive treatments; ● the ability to offer our product candidates for sale at competitive prices; ● relative convenience and ease of administration; ● the strength of marketing and distribution support; ● sufficient third party coverage or reimbursement; and ● the product labeling or product insert (including any warnings) required by the FDA or regulatory authorities in other countries. We may not complete our clinical trials in the time expected, which could delay or prevent the commercialization of our products, which may adversely affect our future revenues and financial condition. Although for planning purposes we will forecast the commencement and completion of clinical trials, the actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to factors such as delays, scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions and the rate of patient enrollment. Clinical trials involving our product candidates may not commence or be completed as forecast. In certain circumstances, we will rely on academic institutions or clinical research organizations to conduct, supervise or monitor some or all aspects of clinical trials involving our products. We will have less control over the timing and other aspects of these clinical trials than if we conducted them entirely on our own. These trials may not commence or be completed as we expect and may not be conducted successfully. Failure to commence or complete, or delays in, any of our planned clinical trials could delay or prevent the commercialization of our products and harm our business and may adversely affect our future revenues and financial condition. If we fail to keep pace with rapid technological change in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, our products could become obsolete, which may adversely affect our future revenues and financial condition. Biotechnology and related pharmaceutical technology have undergone and are subject to rapid and significant change. We expect that the technologies associated with biotechnology research and development will continue to develop rapidly. Our future will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to these technologies. Any compounds, products or processes that we develop may become obsolete before we recover any expenses incurred in connection with developing these products, which may adversely affect our future revenues and financial condition. If we are unable to retain our management, research, development, and clinical teams and scientific advisors or to attract additional qualified personnel, our product operations and development efforts may be seriously jeopardized. - 41 - Our success will be dependent upon the efforts of a small management team and staff, including Dennis J. Carlo, Ph.D. The employment of Dr. Carlo may be terminated at any time by either us or Dr. Carlo. We currently do not have key man life insurance policies covering any of our executive officers or key employees. If key individuals leave us, we could be adversely affected if suitable replacement personnel are not quickly recruited. There is competition for qualified personnel in all functional areas, which makes it difficult to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the operation of our business. The loss of the services of any principal member of our management and research, development and clinical teams could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our scientific and business objectives. Competition among biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies for qualified employees is intense, and the ability to retain and attract qualified individuals is critical to our success. We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel on acceptable terms, if at all. We have relationships with consultants and scientific advisors who will continue to assist us in formulating and executing our research, development, regulatory and clinical strategies. These consultants and scientific advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. We will have only limited control over the activities of these consultants and scientific advisors and can generally expect these individuals to devote only limited time to our activities. We also rely on these consultants to evaluate potential compounds and products, which may be important in developing a long-term product pipeline for us. Consultants also assist us in preparing and submitting regulatory filings. Our scientific advisors provide scientific and technical guidance on our drug discovery and development. Failure of any of these persons to devote sufficient time and resources to our programs could harm our business. In addition, these advisors may have arrangements with other companies to assist those companies in developing technologies that may compete with our products. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Provisions of our charter documents could discourage an acquisition of our company that would benefit our stockholders and may have the effect of entrenching, and making it difficult to remove, management. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would benefit our stockholders. In particular, shares of our preferred stock may be issued in the future without further stockholder approval, and upon such terms and conditions, and have such rights, privileges and preferences, as our board of directors may determine, including, for example, rights to convert into our common stock. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any of our preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of our preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. This could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and discourage those investors from acquiring a majority of our common stock. Further, the existence of these corporate governance provisions could have the effect of entrenching management and making it more difficult to change our management. Our common stock price is expected to be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Market prices for securities of early-stage pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences companies have historically been particularly volatile. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: ● the results of our current and any future clinical trials of our product candidates; ● the timing and results of ongoing preclinical studies and planned clinical trials of our preclinical product candidates; ● the entry into, or termination of, key agreements, including, among others, key collaboration and license agreements; ● the results and timing of regulatory reviews relating to the approval of our product candidates; - 42 - ● the initiation of, material developments in, or conclusion of, litigation to enforce or defend any of our intellectual property rights; ● failure of any of our product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; ● general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect our research and development expenditures; ● the results of clinical trials conducted by others on drugs that would compete with our product candidates; ● issues in manufacturing our product candidates or any approved products; ● the loss of key employees; ● the introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors; ● changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock; ● future sales of our common stock; ● period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; ● publicity or announcements regarding regulatory developments relating to our products; ● clinical trial results, particularly the outcome of more advanced studies, or negative responses from both domestic and foreign regulatory authorities with regard to the approvability of our products; ● period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results, including our cash and cash equivalents balance, operating expenses, cash burn rate or revenue levels; ● common stock sales in the public market by one or more of our larger stockholders, officers or directors; ● our filing for protection under federal bankruptcy laws; ● a negative outcome in any litigation or potential legal proceedings; or ● other potentially negative financial announcements including: a review of any of our filings by the SEC, changes in accounting treatment or restatement of previously reported financial results or delays in our filings with the SEC. The stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. Our common stock is expected to be traded on the OTC Bulletin Board and be subject to additional trading restrictions as a “penny stock,” which could adversely affect the liquidity and price of such stock. Our common stock trades on the OTC Bulletin Board, or OTCBB. The OTCBB and Pink Sheets are viewed by most investors as a less desirable, and less liquid, marketplace. As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to purchase, dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the value of our common stock. Because our common stock is not listed on any national securities exchange, such shares will also be subject to the regulations regarding trading in “penny stocks,” which are those securities trading for less than $5.00 per share. The following is a list of the general restrictions on the sale of penny stocks: ● Before the sale of penny stock by a broker-dealer to a new purchaser, the broker-dealer must determine whether the purchaser is suitable to invest in penny stocks. To make that determination, a broker-dealer must obtain, from a prospective investor, information regarding the purchaser’s financial condition and investment experience and objectives. Subsequently, the broker-dealer must deliver to the purchaser a written statement setting forth the basis of the suitability finding and obtain the purchaser’s signature on such statement. ● A broker-dealer must obtain from the purchaser an agreement to purchase the securities. This agreement must be obtained for every purchase until the purchaser becomes an “established customer.” - 43 - A broker-dealer may not effect a purchase of a penny stock less than two business days after a broker-dealer sends such agreement to the purchaser. ● The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, requires that before effecting any transaction in any penny stock, a broker-dealer must provide the purchaser with a “risk disclosure document” that contains, among other things, a description of the penny stock market and how it functions and the risks associated with such investment. These disclosure rules are applicable to both purchases and sales by investors. ● A dealer that sells penny stock must send to the purchaser, within ten days after the end of each calendar month, a written account statement including prescribed information relating to the security. These requirements can severely limit the liquidity of securities in the secondary market because few brokers or dealers are likely to be willing to undertake these compliance activities. As a result of our common stock not being listed on a national securities exchange and the rules and restrictions regarding penny stock transactions, an investor’s ability to sell to a third party and our ability to raise additional capital may be limited. We make no guarantee that our market-makers will continue to make a market in our common stock, or that any market for our common stock will continue. Our principal stockholders have significant influence over us, and your interests as a stockholder may conflict with the interests of those persons. Based on the number of outstanding shares of our common stock held by our stockholders as of June 13, 2011, our ten largest stockholders beneficially own approximately 53% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, and our largest stockholder holds approximately 25% of the outstanding common stock. As a result, those stockholders will be able to exert a significant degree of influence or actual control over our management and affairs after the merger and over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and any other significant corporate transaction. The interests of these persons may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of our other stockholders. For example, such persons could delay or prevent a change of control of us even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. The significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 