ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS An investment in our Common Stock involves numerous risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the following information about these risks. Any of the risks described below could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our future results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that adversely affect our business in the future. We believe that the most significant of the risks and uncertainties we face are as follows: Our revenues are highly influenced by the sale of products for use in the global automotive market, particularly by manufacturers based in the United States, China, and Western Europe. These manufacturers have experienced periodic downturns in their businesses that could adversely affect their level of purchases of our products. Our revenues are highly influenced by the sale of products for use in the automotive industry, particularly to manufacturers based in the United States, China and Western Europe. As a result, our ability to sell our systems and solutions to automotive manufacturers and suppliers is affected by periodic downturns in the global automotive industry, such as those that occurred in 2009-2010 in the United States automotive industry. New vehicle tooling programs are the most important selling opportunity for our automotive related sales. The number and timing of new vehicle tooling programs can be influenced by a number of economic factors. Our customers only launch a limited number of new car programs in any given year because of the time and financial resources required. From a macro perspective we continue to assess the global economy and its likely effect on our automotive customers and markets served. We continue to view the automotive industry’s focus on introducing new vehicles more frequently to satisfy their customers’ changing requirements, as well as their continuing focus on improved quality, as positive indicators for new business. However, because of periodic economic downturns experienced by our customers, our customers could determine to reduce their number of new car programs. We are experiencing continued pricing pressures from our customers, particularly our automotive customers. These pricing pressures could adversely affect the margins we realize on the sale of our products and, ultimately, our profitability. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented and have adversely impacted the market price of our Common Stock. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption over the past few years. During this period, the volatility and disruption reached unprecedented levels, which have exerted downward pressures on stock prices, including the market price of our Common Stock. Although there have been many widely reported government responses to these disruptions, there can be no assurances that they will be effective in restoring stock prices in general or the market price of our Common Stock. Our future success is dependent upon our ability to implement our long-term growth strategy. We realize that we are vulnerable to fluctuations in the global automotive industry. Our future success is dependent upon our ability to implement our long-term strategy to expand our customer base in our automotive markets and to expand into new markets. Currently, we are focusing on our plans to achieve sales growth in automotive markets through expansion in automotive markets in Asia and the expansion of our business with current customers in North America, South America and Europe. We also continue to explore opportunities for expansion into non-automotive markets through our existing and new products. However, there are a number of uncertainties involved in our long-term strategy over which we have no or limited control, including: • The quality and cost of competitive products already in existence or developed in the future. • The level of interest existing and potential new customers may have in our existing and new products and technologies. 6 • Our ability to resolve technical issues inherent in the development of new products and technologies. • Our ability to identify and satisfy market needs. • Our ability to identify satisfactory distribution networks. • General product development and commercialization difficulties. • Rapid or unexpected technological changes. • General product demand and market acceptance risks. • Our ability to successfully compete with alternative and similar technologies. • Our ability to attract the appropriate personnel to effectively represent, install and service our products. • The effect of economic conditions. Even if we are able to expand our customer base and markets, the new revenues we derive may not offset declines in revenues from our current products. We also may not be able to generate profits from these new customers or markets at the same level as we generate from our current business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to expand our customer base and markets or successfully execute our strategies in a fashion to maintain or increase our revenues and profits. A significant percentage of our revenues are derived from a small number of customers, so that the loss of any one of these customers could result in a reduction in our revenues and profits. A majority of our revenues is derived from the sale of systems and solutions to a small number of customers that consist primarily of automotive manufacturers and suppliers in North America, Western Europe and Asia. With such a large percentage of our revenues coming from such a small and highly concentrated group of customers, we are susceptible to a substantial risk of losing revenues if these customers stop purchasing our products or reduce their purchases of our products. In addition, we have no control over whether these customers will continue to purchase our products, systems and solutions in volumes or at prices sufficient to generate profits for us. Our future commercial success depends upon our ability to maintain a competitive technological position in our markets, which are characterized by continual technological change. Technology plays a key role in the systems and solutions that we produce. Our ability to sell our products to customers is directly influenced by the technology used in our systems and solutions. With the rapid pace at which technology is changing, there is a possibility that our customers may require more technologically advanced systems and solutions than what we may be capable of producing. Technological developments could render actual and proposed products or technologies of ours uneconomical or obsolete. There also is a possibility that we may not be able to keep pace with our competitors’ products. In that case, our competitors may make technological improvements to their products that make them more desirable than our products. Our growth and future financial performance depend upon our ability to introduce new products and enhance existing products that include the latest technological advances and customer requirements. We may not be able to introduce new products successfully or achieve market acceptance for such products. Any failure by us to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences, or any significant delays in product development or introduction, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Accordingly, we believe that our future commercial success will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce new cost-effective products and maintain a competitive technological position. We are dependent on proprietary technology. If our competitors develop competing products that do not violate our intellectual property rights or successfully challenge those rights, our revenues and profits may be adversely affected. Our products contain features that are protected by patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and contractual rights. Despite these protections, there is still a chance that competitors may use these protected features in their products as a result of our inability to keep our trade secrets confidential, or in violation of our intellectual property rights or following a successful challenge to those rights. The prosecution of infringement claims against third parties and the defense of legal actions challenging our intellectual property rights could be costly and require significant attention from management. Because of the small size of our management team, this could result in the diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day operations. There also is a chance that competitors may develop technology that performs the same functions as our products without infringing upon our exclusive rights. It is possible that competitors may reverse engineer those features of our products that are not protected by patents, trademarks and trade secrets. If a competitor is able to reverse engineer an unprotected feature successfully, the competitor may gain an understanding of how the feature works and introduce similar products to compete with our products. 7 Because some of our products are sold in China, we are at risk of competitors misappropriating our intellectual property included in those products or reverse engineering those products. As a result, we may have a more limited ability, and significantly greater costs, to enforce our intellectual property rights in those products. Constant technological improvement of those products will be particularly important to keep the products competitive in their markets. We are subject to risks related to litigation. From time to time, we are subject to lawsuits and other claims arising out of our business operations. Adverse judgments in one or more of these lawsuits could require us to pay significant damage amounts. The outcome of lawsuits is inherently uncertain and typically a loss cannot be reasonably estimated or accrued by us relating to lawsuits. Accordingly, if the outcome of a legal proceeding is adverse to the Company, we would have to record a charge for the matter at the time the legal proceeding is resolved and generally in the full amount at which it is resolved. In addition, the expenses related to these lawsuits may be significant. Lawsuits can have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results, particularly where we have not established an accrual or a sufficient accrual for damages, settlements, or expenses. See “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings” and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies – Litigation and Other Contingencies” below for a discussion of the Company’s policies in accounting for lawsuits and other claims. We could become involved in costly litigation alleging patent infringement. In the past, we had been informed that certain of our customers have received allegations of possible patent infringement involving processes and methods used in our products. Certain of these customers, including one customer who was a party to a patent infringement suit relating to this matter, settled such claims. We believe that the processes used in our products were independently developed without utilizing any previous patented process or technology. However, it is possible that in the future we or our customers could receive allegations of possible patent infringement or could be parties to patent infringement litigation relating to our products. The defense of patent infringement litigation could be costly and require significant attention from management. Because of the small size of our management team, this could result in the diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day operations. There are a number of companies offering competitive products in our markets, or developing products to compete with our products, which could result in a reduction in our revenues through lost sales or a reduction in prices. We are aware of a number of companies in our markets selling products using similar or alternative technologies and methods. We believe that there may be other companies, some of whom may be substantially larger and have substantially greater resources than us, which may be engaged in the development of technology and products for some of our markets that could prove to be competitive with ours. We believe that the principal competitive factor in our markets is the total capability that a product offers. In some markets, a competitive price for the level of functionality and reliability provided are the principal competitive factors. While we believe that our products compete favorably, it is possible that these new competitors could capture some of our sales opportunities or force us to reduce prices in order to complete the sale. We believe that certain existing and potential customers may be capable of internally developing their own technology. This could cause a decline in sales of our products to those customers. Our business depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our success depends in large part upon the continued service of our executives and key employees, including those in engineering, technical, sales and marketing positions, as well as our ability to attract such additional employees in the future. At times and in certain geographic markets, competition for the type of highly skilled employees we require can be significant. The loss of key personnel or the inability to attract new qualified key employees could adversely affect our ability to implement our long-term growth strategy and have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to complete business opportunities and acquisitions and our profits could be negatively affected if we do not successfully operate those that we do complete. We will evaluate from time to time business opportunities that fit our strategic plans. There can be no assurance that we will identify any opportunities that fit our strategic plans or will be able to enter into agreements with identified business opportunities on terms acceptable to us. There is also no assurance that we will be able to effectively integrate businesses that we may acquire due to the significant challenges in consolidating functions and integrating procedures, personnel, product lines, technologies and operations in a timely and efficient manner. The integration process may require significant attention from management and devotion of resources. Because of the small size of our management team, this could result in the diversion of management’s attention from day to day operations and impair our relationships with current employees and customers. 8 We intend to finance any such business opportunities from available cash on hand, existing credit facilities, issuance of additional stock or additional sources of financing, as circumstances warrant. The issuance of additional equity securities could be substantially dilutive to our stockholders. In addition, our profitability may suffer because of acquisition-related costs, debt service requirements or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets. If we are not successful in generating additional profits from these transactions, this dilution and these additional costs could cause our Common Stock price to drop. We are expanding our foreign operations, increasing the possibility that our business could be adversely affected by risks of doing business in foreign countries. We have significant operations outside of the United States and are currently implementing a strategy to expand our operations outside of the United States, especially in Asia. Our foreign operations are subject to risks customarily encountered in such foreign operations. For instance, we may encounter fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, differences in the level of protection available for our intellectual property, the impact of differences in language and local business and social customs on our ability to market and sell our products in these markets and the inability to recruit qualified personnel in a specific country or region. In addition, we may be affected by U.S. laws and policies that impact foreign trade and investment. Finally, we may be adversely affected by laws and policies imposed by foreign governments in the countries where we have business operations or sell our products. These laws and policies vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Because of our significant foreign operations, our revenues and profits can vary significantly as a result of fluctuations in the value of the United States dollar against foreign currencies. Products that we sell in foreign markets are sometimes priced in currency of the country where the customer is located. To the extent that the dollar fluctuates against these foreign currencies, the prices of our products in U.S. dollars also will fluctuate. As a result, our return on the sale of our products may vary based on these fluctuations. Accordingly, we could experience unanticipated foreign currency gains or losses that could have a material impact on our results of operations. Because a large portion of our revenues are generated from a limited number of sizeable orders, our revenues and profits may vary widely from quarter to quarter and year to year. A large portion of our revenues are generated from a limited number of sizeable orders that are placed by a small number of customers. If the timing of these orders is delayed from one quarter to the next or from one year to the next, we may experience fluctuations in our quarterly and annual revenues and operating results. Because our order terms vary from project to project, the application of the Company’s revenue recognition accounting policies to those orders can cause the timing for our recognition of revenue from an order to vary significantly between orders. This may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. The amount of revenues that we earn in any given quarter may vary based in part on the timing of new vehicle programs in the global automotive industry. In contrast, many of our operating expenses are fixed and will not vary from quarter to quarter. As a result, our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. We could experience losses in connection with sales of our investments. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, our long-term investments in auction rate securities were exchanged for preferred stock of a financial services company and a reinsurance company. These investments have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933 and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements. The issuers of these securities are not obligated to register these securities. There is no regular trading market for these securities. As a result, we will have limited ability to liquidate these investments. This lack of liquidity, as well as negative changes in the financial condition of the issuers of these securities and their credit ratings, has adversely impacted the value of these securities. In the event that the financial condition of these issuers should continue to deteriorate and/or the issuers are unable to pay dividends in the future, we may have to record additional impairment charges relating to these securities, which would negatively impact our stockholders’ equity and net income. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources”. The trading price of our stock has been volatile. The following factors may affect the market price of our Common Stock, which can vary widely over time: • announcements of new products by us; • announcements of new products by our competitors; • variations in our operating results; • market conditions in the electronic and sensing industry; • market conditions and stock prices in general; and • the volume of our Common Stock traded. 9 Because of the limited trading in our Common Stock, it may be difficult for shareholders to dispose of a large number of shares of our Common Stock in a short period of time or at then current prices. Because of the limited number of shares of our Common Stock outstanding and the limited number of holders of our Common Stock, only a limited number of shares of our Common Stock trade on a daily basis. This limited trading in our Common Stock makes it difficult to dispose of a large number of shares in a short period of time. In addition, it is likely that the sale by a shareholder of a large number of shares of our Common Stock over an extended period would depress the price of our Common Stock. We may not pay dividends on our common stock. Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends when and if they are declared by our Board of Directors. Although we have declared a special cash dividend on our common stock in September 2012 and have announced an intention to pay regular dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so. Our Board of Directors may change the Company’s dividend policy and dividend amounts at any time, or discontinue the payment of dividends altogether, due to a number of factors, including covenants in the Company’s loan agreement requiring the approval of the Company’s bank prior to the payment of dividends, the Company’s levels of available capital, the Company’s future operating results, or the determination to use or reserve the Company’s cash resources for other purposes. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are restricted under our loan agreement from paying dividends. Dividends are not permitted under our bank credit agreement. The Company’s bank agreed to amend the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement to allow the Company to declare and pay dividends of up to $2.8 million in fiscal 2013 and up to $1.8 million for each fiscal year thereafter provided the Company maintains a minimum Tangible Net Worth as defined in the Credit Agreement. In the event the Board of Directors decided to declare a cash dividend in the future in excess of these levels, we would have to seek a waiver from the covenant in our bank agreement. Our bank may not be willing to waive the restriction. As permitted under Michigan law, our directors are not liable to Perceptron for monetary damages resulting from their actions or inactions. Under our articles of incorporation, as permitted under the Michigan Business Corporation Act, members of our Board of Directors are not liable for monetary damages for any negligent or grossly negligent action that the director takes, or for any negligent or grossly negligent failure of a director to take any action. However, a director will remain liable for: • intentionally inflicting harm on Perceptron or its shareholders; • distributions that the director makes in violation of the Michigan Business Corporation Act; and • intentional criminal acts that the director commits. However, we or our shareholders may seek an injunction, or other appropriate equitable relief, against a director. Finally, liability may be imposed against members of the Board of Directors under the federal securities laws. We are required to indemnify our officers and directors if they are involved in litigation as a result of their serving as officers or directors of Perceptron or as officers or directors of other corporations at our behest, which could reduce our profits and cash available to operate our business. Our by-laws require us to indemnify our officers and directors. We may be required to pay judgments, fines, and expenses incurred by an officer or director, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, as a result of actions or proceedings in which such officers or directors are involved by reason of being or having been an officer or director of Perceptron or other corporations at our behest. Funds paid in satisfaction of judgments, fines and expenses would reduce our profits and may be funds we need for the operation of our business and the development of products. This could cause our stock price to drop. A change in our effective tax rate can have a significant adverse impact on our business. A number of factors may adversely impact our future effective tax rates, such as the future valuation of our deferred tax assets which are predominantly in the United States and are dependent on our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income in the United States; the geographic composition of our pre-tax income and the various tax rates in those countries; changes in available tax credits, changes in tax laws and rates, and the repatriation of earnings from outside the United States for which we have not previously provided for United States taxes. A change in our effective tax rate can adversely impact our net income. Our profits could be reduced as a result of our compliance with SEC rules relating to our internal control over financial reporting. Current SEC rules would require our independent registered public accounting firm auditing our financial statements to provide an attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports if the market value of the Company’s common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $75 million as of the Company’s second fiscal quarter in any given fiscal year. 10 For the fiscal years 2009 through 2012, the Company was not required to have an attestation report from our independent registered public accounting firm on our internal controls. However, if in the future, the Company’s common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $75 million, we would expect to expend significant resources in future fiscal years in connection with ongoing compliance with these requirements, which could adversely affect our profitability. If management is not able to provide a positive report on our internal control over financial reporting, and our independent registered public accounting firm is not able to provide an unqualified opinion regarding our internal control over financial reporting, shareholders and others may lose confidence in our financial statements, which could cause our stock price to drop. Because of our relatively small size, we have a limited number of personnel in our finance department to handle their existing responsibilities, as well as compliance with the SEC’s rules relating to our internal control over financial reporting. In fiscal 2008 through fiscal 2012, management provided a positive report on our internal control over financial reporting and we received in fiscal 2008 an unqualified opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm regarding our internal control over financial reporting. In fiscal 2009 through fiscal 2012, our auditors were not required to give an opinion on our internal control over financial reporting, but under current SEC rules, will be required to do so if the market value of the Company’s common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $75 million as of the Company’s second fiscal quarter in any given fiscal year. However, there can be no positive assurance that, in the future, management will provide a positive report on our internal control over financial reporting or that if required under SEC rules in the future, we will receive an unqualified opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm regarding our internal control over financial reporting. In the event we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that we cannot remediate in a timely manner, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. This could cause our stock price to drop. If the subcontractors we rely on for component parts or products delay deliveries or fail to deliver parts or products meeting our requirements, we may not be able to deliver products to our customers in a timely fashion and our revenues and profits could be reduced. We rely on subcontractors for certain components of our products, including outside subcontracting assembly houses to produce the circuit boards that we use in our products. As a result, we have limited control over the quality and the delivery schedules of components or products purchased from third parties. In addition, we purchase a number of component parts from single source suppliers. If our supplies of component parts or products meeting our requirements are significantly delayed or interrupted, we may not be able to deliver products to our customers in a timely fashion. This could result in a reduction in revenues and profits for these periods. The termination of or material change in the purchase terms of any single source supplier could have a similar impact on us. It is also possible, if our delay in delivering products to our customer is too long, the customer could cancel its order, resulting in a permanent loss of revenue and profit from that sale. From time to time, we have experienced significant delays in the receipt of certain components, including components for our ScanWorks® systems. Finally, although we believe that alternative suppliers are available, difficulties or delays may arise if we shift manufacturing capacity to new suppliers. The Board of Directors has the right to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock without further action by shareholders. The issuance of those shares could cause the market price of our Common Stock to drop significantly and could be used to prevent or frustrate shareholders’ attempts to replace or remove current management. Although no preferred stock currently is outstanding, we are authorized to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by the Board of Directors, without further action by shareholders, and may include voting rights (including the right to vote as a series on particular matters), the dividends payable thereon, liquidation payments, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion rights and redemption rights. In the event that preferred stock is issued, the rights of the common stockholders may be adversely affected. This could result in a reduction in the value of our Common Stock. The preferred stock could be issued to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of Perceptron. This may be beneficial to our management or Board of Directors in a hostile tender offer or other takeover attempt and may have an adverse impact on shareholders who may want to participate in the tender offer or who favor the takeover attempt. Our common stock rights plan could be used to discourage hostile tender offers. We maintain a common stock rights plan. Under the plan, if any person acquires 15% or more of our outstanding Common Stock, our shareholders, other than the acquirer, will have the right to purchase shares of our Common Stock at half their market price. The common stock rights plan discourages potential acquirers from initiating tender offers for our Common Stock without the approval of the Board of Directors. This may be beneficial to our management or Board of Directors in a hostile tender offer or other takeover attempt and may have an adverse impact on shareholders who may want to participate in the tender offer or who favor the takeover attempt. 11 ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 