ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS The following discussion of risk factors relates not only to the business of Cellegy, but also to the business of Adamis and the combined Company as conducted and as proposed to be conducted. 31 The Company will require additional financing. The Company will require additional cash resources to continue operations at substantially their current level during 2009, assuming no significant unexpected expenses. As of December 31, 2008, the Company and its subsidiaries together had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $129,000. The Company estimates that capital needs during calendar year 2009 will include approximately $3.3 million for product development and approximately $2.3 million of the combined Company ongoing sales, general and administrative activities and expenses. These funds will be needed at various times throughout the first half of the calendar 2009 year. Additional funding will be used to satisfy existing obligations and liabilities and future working capital needs, to build working capital reserves and to fund a number of projects, which may include the following: · develop and market the Adamis Labs epinephrine syringe product and the generic nasal steroid product candidate; · pursue the development of other product candidates; · fund clinical trials and seek regulatory approvals; · expand the Company’s research and development activities; · access manufacturing and commercialization capabilities; · implement additional internal systems and infrastructure; · maintain, defend and expand the scope of the Company’s intellectual property portfolio; and · hire additional management, sales, research, development and clinical personnel. Statements in this Report, including concerning the Company’s anticipated or hoped-for target dates for commercial introduction of its epinephrine syringe product and its nasal steroid and vaccine product candidates, and for the commencement of clinical trials relating to the steroid and vaccine product candidates, assume that the Company will have sufficient funding to support the timely introduction of products and the conduct of clinical trials. Failure to have sufficient funding could require the Company to delay product launches or clinical trials, which would have an adverse effect on its business and results of operations and which could increase the need for additional financing in the future. The Company has financed its operations to date primarily through the sale of equity securities. At December 31, 2008, Cellegy had current liabilities of approximately $256,000, including accounts payable of approximately $72,000 including general operating expenses, and approximately $184,000 accrued expenses and other current liabilities related primarily to legal, accounting and payroll items. Until the Company can generate a sufficient amount of revenue to finance its cash requirements, which the Company may never do, the Company expects to finance future cash needs primarily through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, or licensing revenues from strategic collaborations. Sales of additional equity securities will dilute current stockholders’ ownership percentage in the Company. The Company does not know whether additional financing will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If the Company is not able to secure additional equity or debt financing when needed on acceptable terms, the Company may have to sell some of its assets or enter into a strategic collaboration for one or more of the Company’s product candidate programs at an earlier stage of development than would otherwise be desired. This could lower the economic value of these collaborations to the Company. In addition, the Company may have to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of its clinical trials or research and development programs, or ultimately, cease operations. If adequate funding is not obtained, the board of directors will be required to explore alternatives for the Company’s business and assets. These alternatives might include seeking the dissolution and liquidation of the Company, seeking to merge or combine with another company, selling or licensing some of the Company’s intellectual property, or initiating bankruptcy proceedings. There can be no assurance that any third party will be interested in merging with the Company or would agree to a price and other terms that the Company would deem adequate. If the Company filed for bankruptcy protection, the Company would most likely not be able to raise any type of funding from any source. In that event, the creditors of the Company would have first claim on the value of the assets of the Company which, other than remaining cash, would most likely be liquidated in a bankruptcy sale. The Company can give no assurance as to the magnitude of the net proceeds of such sale and whether such proceeds would be sufficient to satisfy the Company’s obligations to its creditors, let alone to permit any distribution to its equity holders. 32 The Company has incurred losses since inception and anticipates that the Company will continue to incur losses. The Company may never achieve or sustain profitability. Cellegy incurred net losses of approximately $1.5 million and $1.9 million for its fiscal years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company’s net operating losses are expected to continue as a result of increasing marketing and sales expenses, research and development expenses, clinical trial activity and preparation for regulatory submissions necessary to support regulatory approval of its products. These losses may increase as the Company continues its research and development activities, seeks regulatory approvals for its product candidates and commercializes any approved products. These losses may cause, among other things, the Company’s stockholders’ equity and working capital to decrease. The future earnings and cash flow from operations of the Company’s business are dependent, in part, on its ability to further develop its products and on revenues and profitability from sales of products and product candidates of its Adamis Labs operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will grow and be profitable. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to generate sufficient product revenue to become profitable at all or on a sustained basis. The Company expects to have quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in expenses, some of which could be significant, due to expanded manufacturing, marketing, research, development, and clinical trial activities. If product candidates fail in clinical trials or do not gain regulatory approval, or if the Company’s products do not achieve market acceptance, the Company may never become profitable. The Company will need to increase product marketing and brand awareness and conduct significant research, development, testing and regulatory compliance activities that, together with projected general and administrative expenses, are expected to result in substantial operating losses for the foreseeable future. Even if the Company does achieve profitability, it may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Substantial doubt exists about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. We have received a “going concern” opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm, which may negatively impact our business. Cellegy’s audit opinions from its independent registered public accounting firm regarding the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 include an explanatory paragraph indicating that Cellegy has incurred recurring losses from operations and has negative working capital, liabilities that exceed its assets and recurring cash flow deficiencies and that these factors raise substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern. Without additional funds from debt or equity financing, sales of assets, intellectual property or technologies, or from a business combination or a similar transaction, the Company will exhaust its resources and will be unable to continue operations. These factors raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Company’s limited operating history may make it difficult to evaluate its business to date and the Company’s future viability. The Company is in the early stage of operations and development, and has only a limited operating history on which to base an evaluation of its business and prospects. Moreover, Adamis acquired Adamis Labs during calendar year 2007, and integrating those businesses with the Company’s other business activities could be challenging. The Company will be subject to the risks inherent in the ownership and operation of a company with a limited operating history such as regulatory setbacks and delays, fluctuations in expenses, competition, the general strength of regional and national economies, and governmental regulation. Any failure to successfully address these risks and uncertainties could seriously harm the Company’s business and prospects. The Company may not succeed given the technological, marketing, strategic and competitive challenges it will face. The likelihood of the Company’s success must be considered in light of the expenses, difficulties, complications, problems and delays frequently encountered in connection with the growth of a new business, the continuing development of new drug development technology, and the competitive and regulatory environment in which the Company operates or may choose to operate in the future. Some of the Company’s potential products and technologies are in early stages of development. The development of new pharmaceutical products is a highly risky undertaking, and there can be no assurance that any future research and development efforts the Company might undertake will be successful. The Company’s potential products in the influenza and other viral fields will require extensive additional research and development before any commercial introduction, and development work on the epinephrine syringe product and the generic nasal steroid product must still be completed. There can be no assurance that any future research, development or clinical trial efforts will result in viable products or meet efficacy standards. Future clinical or preclinical results may be negative or insufficient to allow the Company to successfully market its product candidates. Obtaining needed data and results may take longer than planned or may not be obtained at all. Any such delays or setbacks could have an adverse effect on the ability of the Company to achieve its financial goals. 33 The Company is subject to substantial government regulation, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s business. The production and marketing of the Company’s products and potential products and its ongoing research and development, pre-clinical testing and clinical trial activities are currently subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities in the United States and will face similar regulation and review for overseas approval and sales from governmental authorities outside of the United States. Some of the product candidates that the Company is currently developing must undergo rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing and an extensive regulatory approval process before they can be marketed. This process makes it longer, harder and more costly to bring the Company’s potential products to market, and the Company cannot guarantee that any of its potential products will be approved. The pre-marketing approval process can be particularly expensive, uncertain and lengthy, and a number of products for which FDA approval has been sought by other companies have never been approved for marketing. In addition to testing and approval procedures, extensive regulations also govern marketing, manufacturing, distribution, labeling, and record-keeping procedures. If the Company or its collaboration partners do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, such violations could result in non-approval, suspensions of regulatory approvals, civil penalties and criminal fines, product seizures and recalls, operating restrictions, injunctions, and criminal prosecution. Withdrawal or rejection of FDA or other government entity approval of the Company’s potential products may also adversely affect Adamis’ business. Such rejection may be encountered due to, among other reasons, lack of efficacy during clinical trials, unforeseen safety issues, inability to follow patients after treatment in clinical trials, inconsistencies between early clinical trial results and results obtained in later clinical trials, varying interpretations of data generated by clinical trials, or changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development in the United States and abroad. In the United States, there is stringent FDA oversight in product clearance and enforcement activities, causing medical product development to experience longer approval cycles, greater risk and uncertainty, and higher expenses. Internationally, there is a risk that the Company may not be successful in meeting the quality standards or other certification requirements. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, this approval may entail limitations on uses for which the product may be labeled and promoted, or may prevent the Company from broadening the uses of the Company’s current or potential products for different applications. In addition, the Company may not receive FDA approval to export the Company’s potential products in the future, and countries to which potential products are to be exported may not approve them for import. Manufacturing facilities for the Company’s products will also be subject to continual governmental review and inspection. The FDA has stated publicly that compliance with manufacturing regulations will continue to be strictly scrutinized. To the extent the Company decides to manufacture its own products, a governmental authority may challenge the Company’s compliance with applicable federal, state and foreign regulations. In addition, any discovery of previously unknown problems with one of the Company’s potential products or facilities may result in restrictions on the potential product or the facility. If the Company decides to outsource the commercial production of its products, any challenge by a regulatory authority of the compliance of the manufacturer could hinder the Company’s ability to bring its products to market. Some of Adamis Labs’ products which have been drug listed with the FDA are marketed without an approved new drug application or abbreviated new drug application. The FDA could at some future date seek to prevent marketing of these products, require that such products be marketed only after submission and approval of drug applications, or take other regulatory action against the Company with respect to these products, which could have an adverse effect on the Company. Several of Adamis Labs’ products, including AeroHist Caplets, AeroHist Plus Caplets, AeroKid Oral Liquid and AeroOtic HC Ear Drops, were not the subject of a new drug application or abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, and have not been approved for marketing by the FDA. These products have been marketed for many years and, the Company believes, are similarly situated to products marketed by many companies that are marketed without an approved new drug application or abbreviated new drug application. The products are drug listed with the FDA in the National Drug Code Directory but such listing does not constitute FDA approval of the products. In June 2006, the FDA issued a Compliance Policy Guide for Marketed Unapproved Drugs, which addressed some of the considerations utilized by the FDA in exercising its discretion with respect to products marketed without FDA approval. The guide does not establish legally enforceable responsibilities on the FDA and generally only represents the agency’s current thinking on a topic. The guide emphasizes that any product that is being marketed without required FDA approvals is subject to FDA enforcement action at any time. If the FDA were to issue a Federal Register Notice outlining revised conditions for marketing, which could include calling for the submission of an application for products such as the Company’s cough/cold products, then the Company would take appropriate action so as to be in compliance with any such policies. The FDA might also require clinical trials in support of any such applications, and the Company would need to evaluate its alternatives in light of the costs required to conduct such trials, which could be substantial, compared to the economic benefit to the Company from such products. The FDA could also exercise its discretion to proceed against the Company and/or other companies that market similar products without an FDA approval and require immediate withdrawal of the products from the market, to prohibit the Company from marketing these products without first conducting required trials and obtaining approvals, or to impose other penalties on the Company. Some of Adamis Labs’ unapproved products include extended release formulations, which may subject the Company to a higher risk of FDA enforcement action. Such actions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 34 The Company intends to rely on third parties to conduct its clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, the Company may be unable to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, regulatory approval, or may not be successful in commercializing the Company’s planned and future products. Like many companies its size, the Company does not have the ability to conduct preclinical or clinical studies for its product candidates without the assistance of third parties who conduct the studies on its behalf. These third parties are usually toxicology facilities and clinical research organizations, or CROs, that have significant resources and experience in the conduct of pre-clinical and clinical studies. The toxicology facilities conduct the pre-clinical safety studies as well as all associated tasks connected with these studies. The CROs typically perform patient recruitment, project management, data management, statistical analysis, and other reporting functions. The Company intends to rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials of its product candidates and to use different toxicology facilities and CROs for its pre-clinical and clinical studies. The Company’s reliance on these third parties for development activities will reduce its control over these activities. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to the Company’s clinical protocols or for other reasons, the Company’s clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, the Company may be required to replace them. Although the Company believes there are a number of third-party contractors it could engage to continue these activities, replacing a third-party contractor may result in a delay of the affected trial. Accordingly, the Company may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize its product candidates. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing of the Company’s product candidates could result in increased costs to the Company and delay its ability to generate significant revenues. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could significantly impact the Company’s product development costs. The Company does not know whether current or planned clinical trials will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in: · obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; · reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations and clinical trial sites; · obtaining sufficient quantities of clinical trial materials for any or all product candidates; · obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; and · recruiting participants for a clinical trial. In addition, once a clinical trial has begun, it may be suspended or terminated by the Company or the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: · failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements; 35 · inspection of the clinical trial operations or clinical trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; · failure to achieve certain efficacy and/or safety standards; or · lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. Clinical trials require sufficient participant enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the target population, the nature of the trial protocol, the proximity of participants to clinical trial sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the eligibility criteria for the Company’s clinical trials and competing trials. Delays in enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times. The Company’s failure to enroll participants in its clinical trials could delay the completion of the clinical trials beyond current expectations. In addition, the FDA could require the Company to conduct clinical trials with a larger number of participants than it may project for any of its product candidates. As a result of these factors, the Company may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of participants in a timely or cost-effective manner. Furthermore, enrolled participants may drop out of clinical trials, which could impair the validity or statistical significance of the clinical trials. A number of factors can influence the discontinuation rate, including, but not limited to: the inclusion of a placebo in a trial; possible lack of effect of the product candidate being tested at one or more of the dose levels being tested; adverse side effects experienced, whether or not related to the product candidate; and the availability of numerous alternative treatment options that may induce participants to discontinue from the trial. The Company, the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a product candidate at any time if Adamis or they believe the participants in such clinical trials, or in independent third-party clinical trials for drugs based on similar technologies, are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. The Company is subject to the risk of clinical trial and product liability lawsuits. The testing of human health care product candidates entails an inherent risk of allegations of clinical trial liability, while the marketing and sale of approved products entails an inherent risk of allegations of product liability. As the Company conducts additional clinical trials and introduces products into the United States market, the risk of adverse events increases and the Company’s requirements for liability insurance coverage are likely to increase. The Company is subject to the risk that substantial liability claims from the testing or marketing of pharmaceutical products could be asserted against it in the future. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, particularly in overseas locations, for clinical and commercial activities or that any insurance obtained will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. Moreover, the Company’s current and future coverage may not be adequate to protect the Company from all of the liabilities that it may incur. If losses from liability claims exceed the Company’s insurance coverage, the Company may incur substantial liabilities that exceed its financial resources. In addition, a product or clinical trial liability action against the Company would be expensive and time-consuming to defend, even if the Company ultimately prevailed. If the Company is required to pay a claim, the Company may not have sufficient financial resources and its business and results of operations may be harmed. The Company does not have commercial-scale manufacturing capability, and it lacks commercial manufacturing experience. The Company will likely rely on third parties to manufacture and supply its product candidates. The Company does not own or operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of product candidates. The Company does not have any experience in drug formulation or manufacturing, and it will lack the resources and the capability to manufacture any of the Company’s product candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. Accordingly, the Company expects to depend on third-party contract manufacturers for the foreseeable future. Any performance failure on the part of the Company’s contract manufacturers could delay clinical development, regulatory approval or commercialization of the Company’s current or future product candidates, depriving the Company of potential product revenue and resulting in additional losses. 36 The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up initial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control (including stability of the product candidate and quality assurance testing), shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. If the Company’s third-party contract manufacturers were to encounter any of these difficulties or otherwise fail to comply with their obligations or under applicable regulations, the Company’s ability to provide product candidates to patients in its clinical trials would be jeopardized. Any delay or interruption in the supply of clinical trial supplies could delay the completion of the Company’s clinical trials, increase the costs associated with maintaining the Company’s clinical trial programs and, depending upon the period of delay, require the Company to commence new trials at significant additional expense or terminate the trials completely. The Company’s products can only be manufactured in a facility that has undergone a satisfactory inspection by the FDA and other relevant regulatory authorities. For these reasons, the Company may not be able to replace manufacturing capacity for its products quickly if it or its contract manufacturer(s) were unable to use manufacturing facilities as a result of a fire, natural disaster (including an earthquake), equipment failure, or other difficulty, or if such facilities were deemed not in compliance with the regulatory requirements and such non-compliance could not be rapidly rectified. An inability or reduced capacity to manufacture the Company products would have a material adverse effect on the combined entity’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. If the Company fails to obtain acceptable prices or appropriate reimbursement for its products, its ability to successfully commercialize its products will be impaired. Government and insurance reimbursements for healthcare expenditures play an important role for all healthcare providers, including physicians and pharmaceutical companies such as the Company that plan to offer various products in the United States and other countries in the future. The Company’s ability to earn sufficient returns on its products and potential products will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of such products will be available from government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers, managed care organizations, and other organizations. In the United States, the Company’s ability to have its products eligible for Medicare, Medicaid or private insurance reimbursement will be an important factor in determining the ultimate success of its products. If, for any reason, Medicare, Medicaid or the insurance companies decline to provide reimbursement for the Company’s products, its ability to commercialize its products would be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that the Company’s potential drug products will be eligible for reimbursement. There has been a trend toward declining government and private insurance expenditures for many healthcare items. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price of medical and pharmaceutical products. If purchasers or users of the Company’s products and related treatments are not able to obtain appropriate reimbursement for the cost of using such products, they may forego or reduce such use. Even if the Company’s products are approved for reimbursement by Medicare, Medicaid and private insurers, of which there can be no assurance, the amount of reimbursement may be reduced at times, or even eliminated. This would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved pharmaceutical products, and there can be no assurance that adequate third-party coverage will be available. Legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system may affect the Company’s ability to sell its products profitably. In both the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the healthcare system in ways that could impact the Company’s ability to sell its products profitably. In recent years, new legislation has been enacted in the United States at the federal and state levels that effects major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. These new laws include a prescription drug benefit plan for Medicare beneficiaries and certain changes in Medicare reimbursement. Given the recent enactment of these laws, it is still too early to determine their impact on the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries and the Company’s business. Further, federal and state proposals are likely. The adoption of these proposals and pending proposals may affect the Company’s ability to raise capital, obtain additional collaborators or profitably market its products. Such proposals may reduce the Company’s revenues, increase its expenses or limit the markets for its products. In particular, the Company expects to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of its products due to the trend toward managed health care, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals. 37 The Company has limited sales, marketing and distribution experience. The Company has limited experience in the sales, marketing, and distribution of pharmaceutical products. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to establish sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with its current collaborators or others to perform such activities or that such efforts will be successful. If the Company decides to market any of its new products directly, it must either acquire or internally develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capabilities. The acquisition or development of a sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure would require substantial resources, which may not be available to the Company or, even if available, divert the attention of its management and key personnel, and have a negative impact on further product development efforts. The Company may seek to enter into collaborative arrangements to develop and commercialize its products. These collaborations, if secured, may not be successful. The Company may seek to enter into collaborative arrangements to develop and commercialize some of its potential products both in North America and international markets. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to negotiate collaborative arrangements on favorable terms or at all or that its current or future collaborative arrangements will be successful. The Company’s strategy for the future research, development, and commercialization of its products is expected to be based in part on entering into various arrangements with corporate collaborators, licensors, licensees, health care institutions and principal investigators and others, and its commercial success is dependent upon these outside parties performing their respective contractual obligations responsibly and with integrity. The amount and timing of resources such third parties will devote to these activities may not be within the Company’s control. There can be no assurance that such parties will perform their obligations as expected. There can be no assurance that the Company’s collaborators will devote adequate resources to its products. Even if the Company receives regulatory approval to market its product candidates, such products may not gain the market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community. Any products that the Company may develop may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community even if they ultimately receive regulatory approval. If these products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, the Company, or future collaborators, may not be able to generate material product revenues and the Company may not become profitable. The degree of market acceptance of any of the Company’s product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: · demonstration of efficacy and safety in clinical trials; · the prevalence and severity of any unexpected side effects; · the introduction and availability of generic substitutes for any of the Company’s products, potentially at lower prices (which, in turn, will depend on the strength of the Company’s intellectual property protection for such products); · potential or perceived advantages over alternative treatments; · the timing of market entry relative to competitive treatments; · the ability to offer the Company’s product candidates for sale at competitive prices; · relative convenience and ease of administration; · the strength of marketing and distribution support; · sufficient third party coverage or reimbursement; and · the product labeling or product insert (including any warnings) required by the FDA or regulatory authorities in other countries. 38 If the Company is not successful in acquiring or licensing additional product candidates on acceptable terms, if at all, the Company’s business may be adversely affected. As part of its strategy, the Company may acquire or license additional product candidates that it believes have growth potential. There are no assurances that the Company will be able to identify promising product candidates. Even if the Company is successful in identifying promising product candidates, the Company may not be able to reach an agreement for the acquisition or license of the product candidates with their owners on acceptable terms or at all. The Company may not be able to successfully identify any other commercial products or product candidates to in-license, acquire or internally develop. Moreover, negotiating and implementing an economically viable in-licensing arrangement or acquisition is a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater resources, may compete with the Company for the in-licensing or acquisition of product candidates and approved products. The Company may not be able to acquire or in-license the rights to additional product candidates and approved products on terms that it finds acceptable, or at all. If it is unable to in-license or acquire additional commercial products or product candidates, the Company’s ability to grow its business or increase its profits could be severely limited. If the Company’s competitors develop and market products that are more effective than the Company’s product candidates or obtain regulatory and marketing approval for similar products before the Company does, the Company’s commercial opportunity may be reduced or eliminated. The development and commercialization of new pharmaceutical products which target influenza and other viral conditions, and allergy and other respiratory conditions addressed by the current and future products of Adamis Labs, is competitive, and the Company will face competition from numerous sources, including major biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies worldwide. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater financial and technical resources, and development, production and marketing capabilities than the Company does. In addition, many of these companies have more experience than the Company in pre-clinical testing, clinical trials and manufacturing of compounds, as well as in obtaining FDA and foreign regulatory approvals. The Company will also compete with academic institutions, governmental agencies and private organizations that are conducting research in the same fields. Competition among these entities to recruit and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and professional personnel and consultants is also intense. As a result, there is a risk that one of the competitors of the Company will develop a more effective product for the same indications for which the Company is developing a product or, alternatively, bring a similar product to market before the Company can do so. Failure of the Company to successfully compete will adversely impact the ability to raise additional capital and ultimately achieve profitable operations. The Company faces intense competition from larger companies and may not have the resources required to develop innovative products. The Company’s product candidates are subject to competition from existing products. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to rapid and significant technological change. The Company’s and much smaller in terms of size and resources than many of their competitors in the United States and abroad, which include, among others, major pharmaceutical, chemical, consumer product, specialty pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and other research institutions. The Company’s competitors may succeed in developing technologies and products that are safer and more effective than any product or product candidates that the Company may develop and could render its technology and potential products obsolete and noncompetitive. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial and technical resources, clinical production and marketing capabilities and regulatory experience. In addition, any products of the Company will likely be subject to competition from existing products. As a result, any future products of the Company may never be able to compete successfully with existing products or with innovative products under development by other organizations. If the Company suffers negative publicity concerning the safety of its products in development, its sales may be harmed and Adamis may be forced to withdraw such products. If concerns should arise about the safety of any of the Company’s products that are marketed, regardless of whether or not such concerns have a basis in generally accepted science or peer-reviewed scientific research, such concerns could adversely affect the market for these products. Similarly, negative publicity could result in an increased number of product liability claims, whether or not these claims are supported by applicable law. 39 The Company’s failure to protect adequately or to enforce its intellectual property rights or secure rights to third party patents could materially harm its proprietary position in the marketplace or prevent the commercialization of its products. The Company’s success will depend in part on its ability to obtain and maintain protection in the United States and other countries for the intellectual property covering or incorporated into its technologies and products. The patents and patent applications in the Company’s existing patent portfolio are either owned by the Company or licensed to the Company. The Company’s ability to protect its product candidates from unauthorized use or infringement by third parties depends substantially on its ability to obtain and maintain valid and enforceable patents. Due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, the Company’s ability to obtain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles are unresolved. There is a substantial backlog of patent applications at the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Patents in the United States are issued to the party that is first to invent the claimed invention. There can be no assurance that any patent applications relating to the Company’s products or methods will be issued as patents, or, if issued, that the patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted thereunder will provide a competitive advantage. The Company may not be able to obtain patent rights on products, treatment methods or manufacturing processes that it may develop or to which the Company may obtain license or other rights. Even if the Company does obtain patents, rights under any issued patents may not provide it with sufficient protection for the Company’s product candidates or provide sufficient protection to afford the Company a commercial advantage against its competitors or their competitive products or processes. It is possible that no patents will be issued from any pending or future patent applications owned by the Company or licensed to the Company. Others may challenge, seek to invalidate, infringe or circumvent any patents the Company owns or licenses. Alternatively, the Company may in the future be required to initiate litigation against third parties to enforce its intellectual property rights. The defense and prosecution of patent and intellectual property claims are both costly and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to the Company. Any adverse outcome could subject the Company to significant liabilities, require the Company to license disputed rights from others, or require the Company to cease selling its future products. In addition, many other organizations are engaged in research and product development efforts that may overlap with the Company’s products. For example, with regard to the Savvy product candidates Tibotec Pharmaceuticals, which is owned by Johnson & Johnson, is engaged in the development of innovative HIV/AIDS drugs and anti-infectives, and many companies are engaged in efforts to develop HIV/AIDS therapeutic products. In addition, Ortho Pharmaceuticals and many other companies offer contraceptive vaginal gel products. Such organizations may currently have, or may obtain in the future, legally blocking proprietary rights, including patent rights, in one or more products or methods under development or consideration by the Company. These rights may prevent the Company from commercializing technology, or may require the Company to obtain a license from the organizations to use the technology. The Company may not be able to obtain any such licenses that may be required on reasonable financial terms, if at all, and cannot be sure that the patents underlying any such licenses will be valid or enforceable. As with other companies in the pharmaceutical industry, the Company is subject to the risk that persons located in other countries will engage in development, marketing or sales activities of products that would infringe the Company’s patent rights if such activities were conducted in the United States. The Company’s patents also may not afford protection against competitors with similar technology. The Company may not have identified all patents, published applications or published literature that affect its business either by blocking the Company’s ability to commercialize its product candidates, by preventing the patentability of its products or by covering the same or similar technologies that may affect the Company’s ability to market or license its product candidates. For example, patent applications filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, are maintained in confidence for up to 18 months after their filing. In some cases, however, patent applications filed with the USPTO remain confidential for the entire time before issuance as a U.S. patent. Patent applications filed in countries outside the United States are not typically published until at least 18 months from their first filing date. Similarly, publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries. Therefore, the Company or its licensors might not have been the first to invent, or the first to file, patent applications on the Company’s product candidates or for their use. The laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States, and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending these rights in foreign jurisdictions. If the Company encounters such difficulties or is otherwise precluded from effectively protecting its intellectual property rights in either the United States or foreign jurisdictions, the Company’s business prospects could be substantially harmed. 40 If the Company is unable to retain its management, research, development, and clinical teams and scientific advisors or to attract additional qualified personnel, the Company’s product operations and development efforts may be seriously jeopardized. The Company’s success is dependent upon the efforts of a small management team and staff, including Dennis J. Carlo, Ph.D., its Chief Executive Officer. The employment of Mr. Carlo may be terminated at any time by either the Company or Mr. Carlo. The Company does not have key man life insurance policies covering any of its executive officers or key employees. If key individuals leave the Company, the Company could be adversely affected if suitable replacement personnel are not quickly recruited. There is competition for qualified personnel in all functional areas, which makes it difficult to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the operation of the Company’s business. The loss of the services of any principal member of the Company’s management and research, development and clinical teams could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of the Company’s scientific and business objectives. Competition among biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies for qualified employees is intense, and the ability to retain and attract qualified individuals is critical to the Company’s success. The Company may be unable to attract and retain key personnel on acceptable terms, if at all. The Company does not maintain “key person” life insurance on any of its officers, employees or consultants. The Company has relationships with consultants and scientific advisors who will continue to assist the Company in formulating and executing its research, development, regulatory and clinical strategies. These consultants and scientific advisors are not employees of Adamis or the Company and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to the Company. The Company will have only limited control over the activities of these consultants and scientific advisors and can generally expect these individuals to devote only limited time to the Company’s activities. The Company also relies on these consultants to evaluate potential compounds and products, which may be important in developing a long-term product pipeline for the Company. Consultants also assist the Company in preparing and submitting regulatory filings. The Company’s scientific advisors provide scientific and technical guidance on the company’s drug discovery and development. Failure of any of these persons to devote sufficient time and resources to the Company’s programs could harm its business. In addition, these advisors may have arrangements with other companies to assist those companies in developing technologies that may compete with the Company’s products. The Company may not achieve the benefits that were expected from the Merger, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. Cellegy and Adamis entered into the merger agreement with the expectation that the Merger will result in benefits to the Company. Post-merger challenges include the following: · maintaining an OTC Bulletin Board listing or a stock exchange listing to promote liquidity for stockholders of the Company and potentially greater access to capital; · retaining the management and employees of the Company; · obtaining additional financing required to fund operations; and · developing new product candidates that utilize the assets and resources of the Company. If the Company is not successful in addressing these and other challenges, then the benefits of the merger may not be realized and, as a result, the Company’s operating results and the market price of the Company’s common stock may be adversely affected. The Company’s common stock price is expected to be volatile, and the market price of its common stock may drop following the merger. The market price of the Company’s common stock may decline following the closing of the Adamis/Cellegy Merger for a number of reasons, including the following: · if the Company does not achieve the perceived benefits of the Merger as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by the Company or financial or industry analysts; · if the Company is unable to obtain required financing; 41 · if the effect of the Merger on the Company’s business and prospects is not consistent with the expectations of the Company or financial or industry analysts; · if revenues and net income from sales of the Company’s products are less than investors’ expectations; or · if the Company’s product research and development efforts do not meet investors’ expectations. The market price of the Company’s common stock could also be subject to significant fluctuations following the Merger. Market prices for securities of early-stage pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences companies have historically been particularly volatile. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of the Company’s common stock to fluctuate include: · the results of the Company’s current and any future clinical trials of its product candidates; · the timing and results of ongoing preclinical studies and planned clinical trials of the Company’s preclinical product candidates; · the entry into, or termination of, key agreements, including, among others, key collaboration and license agreements; · the results and timing of regulatory reviews relating to the approval of the Company’s product candidates; · the initiation of, material developments in, or conclusion of, litigation to enforce or defend any of the Company’s intellectual property rights; · failure of any of the Company’s product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; · general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect the Company’s research and development expenditures; · the results of clinical trials conducted by others on drugs that would compete with the Company’s product candidates; · issues in manufacturing the Company’s product candidates or any approved products; · the loss of key employees; · the introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by competitors of the Company; · changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover the Company’s common stock; · future sales of the Company’s common stock; · period-to-period fluctuations in the Company’s financial results; · publicity or announcements regarding regulatory developments relating to the Company’s products; · clinical trial results, particularly the outcome of more advanced studies; or negative responses from both domestic and foreign regulatory authorities with regard to the approvability of the Company’s products; · period-to-period fluctuations in the Company’s financial results, including the Company’s cash and cash equivalents balance, operating expenses, cash burn rate or revenue levels; · common stock sales in the public market by one or more of the Company’s larger stockholders, officers or directors; 42 · its filing for protection under federal bankruptcy laws; · a negative outcome in any litigation or potential legal proceedings; or · other potentially negative financial announcements including: a review of any of the Company’s filings by the SEC, changes in accounting treatment or restatement of previously reported financial results or delays in the Company’s filings with the SEC. Following the merger, stockholders of the Company may sell a significant number of shares of common stock of the Company that they received in the Merger. Such holders previously had no ready market for their Adamis shares and might be eager to sell some or all of their shares once the Merger is completed. Significant sales could adversely affect the market price for the Company’s common stock for a period of time after completion of the Merger. Moreover, the stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the trading price of the Company’s common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm the Company’s profitability and reputation. The Company’s common stock will initially be traded on the OTC Bulletin Board and be subject to additional trading restrictions as a “penny stock,” which could adversely affect the liquidity and price of such stock. The Company’s common stock is currently traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. Because the Company’s common stock will not initially be listed on any national securities exchange, such shares will also be subject to the regulations regarding trading in “penny stocks,” which are securities trading for less than $5.00 per share. The following is a list of the general restrictions on the sale of penny stocks: · Before the sale of penny stock by a broker-dealer to a new purchaser, the broker-dealer must determine whether the purchaser is suitable to invest in penny stocks. To make that determination, a broker-dealer must obtain, from a prospective investor, information regarding the purchaser’s financial condition and investment experience and objectives. Subsequently, the broker-dealer must deliver to the purchaser a written statement setting forth the basis of the suitability finding and obtain the purchaser’s signature on such statement. · A broker-dealer must obtain from the purchaser an agreement to purchase the securities. This agreement must be obtained for every purchase until the purchaser becomes an “established customer.” A broker-dealer may not effect a purchase of a penny stock less than two business days after a broker-dealer sends such agreement to the purchaser. · The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, requires that before effecting any transaction in any penny stock, a broker-dealer must provide the purchaser with a “risk disclosure document” that contains, among other things, a description of the penny stock market and how it functions and the risks associated with such investment. These disclosure rules are applicable to both purchases and sales by investors. · A dealer that sells penny stock must send to the purchaser, within ten days after the end of each calendar month, a written account statement including prescribed information relating to the security. These requirements can severely limit the liquidity of securities in the secondary market because few brokers or dealers are likely to be willing to undertake these compliance activities. As a result of the Company’s common stock not being listed on a national securities exchange and the rules and restrictions regarding penny stock transactions, an investor’s ability to sell to a third party and the Company’s ability to raise additional capital may be limited. The Company makes no guarantee that its market-makers will continue to make a market in its common stock, or that any market for its common stock will continue. 43 The Company’s shares of common stock may never be approved for listing on a national securities exchange, which may adversely affect the stockholders’ ability to sell shares of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s common stock is currently traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. If at some future date the Company seeks to be listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market or other national securities exchange, it would need to satisfy the requirements for initial listing on the exchange. The initial listing qualification standards are stringent and include both quantitative and qualitative requirements. Although the Company may at a future date explore various actions to meet the minimum initial listing requirements for a listing on a national securities exchange, there is no guarantee that any such actions will be successful in bringing it into compliance with such requirements. If the Company fails to achieve listing of its common stock on a national securities exchange, the Company’s common shares may continue to be traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, the Pink Sheets, or other over-the-counter markets in the United States, although there can be no assurance that its common shares will remain eligible for trading on any such alternative markets or exchanges in the United States. In the event that the Company is not able to obtain a listing on a national securities exchange or maintain its reporting on the OTC Bulletin Board, Pink Sheets or other quotation service for its common shares, it may be more difficult for stockholders to sell their common shares in the United States. Moreover, if the common stock of the Company remains quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, Pink Sheets or other over-the-counter market, the liquidity will likely be less, and therefore the price will be more volatile, than if its common stock was listed on a national securities exchange. Stockholders may not be able to sell their common shares in the quantities, at the times, or at the prices that could potentially be available on a more liquid trading market. As a result of these factors, if the Company’s common shares fail to achieve listing on a national securities exchange, the price of its common shares may decline. In addition, a decline in the price of the Company’s common shares could impair its ability to achieve a national securities exchange listing or to obtain financing in the future. The Company’s principal stockholders will have significant influence over the Company, and your interests may conflict with the interests of those persons. The Company’s five largest stockholders beneficially own approximately 49% of the outstanding the Company common stock. As a result, those stockholders will be able to exert a significant degree of influence or actual control over the Company’s management and affairs after the merger and over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets, and any other significant corporate transaction. The interests of these persons may not always coincide with the interests of the Company or its other stockholders. For example, such persons could delay or prevent a change of control of the Company even if such a change of control would benefit the Company’s other stockholders. The significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of the Company’s common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. The Company’s corporate compliance programs cannot guarantee that the Company is in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. The development, manufacturing, pricing, sales, and reimbursement of pharmaceutical products, together with the Company’s general operations, are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and other authorities within the United States and numerous entities outside of the United States. The Company is a small company and it relies on third parties to conduct certain important functions. The Company relies on a third party clinical regulatory organization, Health Decisions, Inc., pursuant to an agreement between the Company and the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, to conduct its Phase 3 Savvy clinical trial, and will rely on third parties to assist in evaluation of the results of that trial. In addition, the Company also has significantly fewer employees than many other companies that have the same or fewer product candidates in clinical development. If the Company fails to comply with any of these regulations, the Company could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, including suspension or termination of clinical trials, restrictions on its products or manufacturing processes, or other sanctions or litigation. In addition, as a publicly traded company the Company is subject to significant regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While the Company has developed and instituted a corporate compliance program and continues to update the program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, the Company cannot assure you that it is now or will be in compliance with all such applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with potentially applicable laws and regulations could also lead to the imposition of fines, cause the value of Cellegy’s common stock to decline and impede the Company’s ability to raise capital or lead to the failure of Cellegy’s common stock to continue to be traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. 44 If the Company is unable to favorably assess the effectiveness of its internal controls over financial reporting, or if the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on the Company’s assessment, the price of the Company’s common stock could be adversely affected. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Company’s management is required to report on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as part of its annual reports for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2007, and the Company’s independent auditor will be required to attest to the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2010. Before the Merger, Adamis, as a private company, was not subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. For financial periods after the closing of the Merger, if management identifies one or more material weaknesses in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that are not remediated, the Company will be unable to assert that its internal controls are effective. Any failure to have effective internal control over financial reporting could cause investors to lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of the Company’s financial reports, which could lead to a substantial price decline in the Company’s common stock. In addition, although the Company believes that it currently has adequate finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls for its business, in light of the closing of the merger with Adamis, the Company may decide to upgrade the existing, and implement additional, procedures and controls to incorporate Adamis’ business operations. These updates may require significant time and expense, and there can be no guarantee that the Company will be successful in implementing them. If the Company is unable to complete any required modifications to its internal control reporting or if the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide the Company with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, which could lead to a substantial price decline in the Company’s common stock. The Company has never paid cash dividends on its common stock, and neither company anticipates that the Company will pay any cash dividends on its common stock in the foreseeable future. The Company has never declared or paid cash dividends on its common stock. The Company does not anticipate that it will pay any cash dividends on its common stock in the foreseeable future. The Company intends to retain all available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and growth of its business. Accordingly, the stockholders of the Company will not receive a return on their investment unless the value of the Company’s shares increases, which may or may not occur. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 