ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS There is no assurance that the Company will be able to close the merger transaction with Adamis. Should Cellegy be unable to secure the additional shareholder votes necessary to approve the merger transaction with Adamis or if one or more other closing conditions in the Merger Agreement are not satisfied and the merger transaction does not close, the Company may choose to pursue liquidation or voluntarily file bankruptcy proceedings. The Company’s cash resources are dwindling The Company estimates that it has enough cash resources to continue operations as they currently exist until approximately September 30, 2008. 10 We sold a material portion of our assets to a third party and have reduced the scope of our operations. In November 2006, we sold a material portion of our assets, including intellectual property rights and related assets concerning most of our products and product candidates, to ProStrakan. The Company’s operations currently relate primarily to the intellectual property rights of our Biosyn subsidiary. While the Savvy Phase 3 contraception trial in the United States is ongoing, the Company is not directly involved with the conduct and funding thereof and, due to the cessation of the Africa HIV Phase 3 trials, it is uncertain whether Savvy will be commercialized or whether the Company will ever realize revenues there from. We have a history of losses and do not expect to achieve profitability. We have incurred accumulated losses since our inception and accumulated negative cash flows from operations that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We expect negative cash flows to continue for the foreseeable future. The Company believes that it has enough financial resources to continue operations as they currently exist until approximately September 30, 2008; however, it does not have the technological or the financial assets necessary to fund the expenditures that would be required to conduct the future clinical and regulatory work necessary to commercialize Savvy or other Biosyn product candidates without additional funding. Without additional funds from financing, sales of assets, intellectual property or technologies, or from a business combination or a similar transaction, we will exhaust our resources and will be unable to continue operations, and our accumulated deficit will continue to increase as we continue to incur losses. These factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have received a “going concern” opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm, which may negatively impact our business. Our audit opinion from our independent registered public accounting firms regarding the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, include an explanatory paragraph indicating that there is substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Doubts concerning our ability to continue as a going concern could adversely affect our ability to enter into other strategic transactions or arrangements. Such an outcome may negatively affect the market price of our common stock and could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to regulation by regulatory authorities including the FDA, which could delay or prevent marketing of our products. Unexpected regulatory outcomes could adversely affect our business and stock price. Cellegy’s remaining product candidates and our research and clinical activities are subject to extensive regulation by governmental regulatory authorities in the United States and in other countries. Before we obtain regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any potential drug products, we must demonstrate through pre-clinical studies and clinical trials that the product is safe and efficacious for use in the clinical indication for which approval is sought. The timing of NDA submissions, the outcome of reviews by the FDA and the initiation and completion of other clinical trials are subject to uncertainty, change and unforeseen delays. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (“PDUFA”), the FDA establishes a target date to complete its review of an NDA. Although the FDA attempts to respond by the relevant PDUFA date to companies that file NDAs, there is no obligation on the FDA’s part to do so. In addition, extensive current pre-clinical and clinical testing requirements and the current regulatory approval process of the FDA in the United States and of certain foreign regulatory authorities, or new government regulations, could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. The process of developing and obtaining approval for a new pharmaceutical product within this regulatory framework requires a number of years and substantial expenditures. There can be no assurance that necessary approvals will be obtained in a timely manner, if at all. Delays in clinical trials or obtaining regulatory approvals could delay receipt of revenues from product sales, increase our expenditures relating to obtaining approvals, jeopardize corporate partnership arrangements that we might enter into with third parties regarding particular products, or cause a decline in our stock price. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be subject to a wide variety of serious administrative or judicially imposed sanctions and penalties, including regulatory actions, suspension or termination of clinical trials, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of products from the market, significant fines, or other sanctions or litigation. any of which could result in significant financial penalties that could reduce our available cash, delay introduction of products resulting in deferral or elimination of revenues from product sales, and could result in a decline in our stock price. 11 Clinical trial results are very difficult to predict in advance, and the clinical trial process is subject to delays. Failure of one or more clinical trials or delays in trial completion could adversely affect our business and our stock price. Results of pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials may not be good predictors of results that will be obtained in later-stage clinical trials. We cannot provide any assurance that Cellegy’s remaining clinical trial will demonstrate the results required to continue advanced trial development and allow us to seek marketing approval for our product candidate. Because of the independent and blind nature of certain human clinical testing, there will be extended periods during the testing process when we will have only limited, or no, access to information about the status or results of the tests. Cellegy and other pharmaceutical companies have believed that their products performed satisfactorily in early tests, only to find their performance in later tests, including Phase 3 clinical trials, to be inadequate or unsatisfactory, or that FDA Advisory Committees have declined to recommend approval of the drugs, or that the FDA itself refused approval, with a resulting decrease in stock price. Clinical trials can be extremely costly. Certain costs relating to the Phase 3 trials for the Savvy product for contraception and, when they were conducted, for the reduction in the transmission of HIV, and other clinical and preclinical development costs for Savvy, were funded directly by certain grant and contract commitments from several governmental and non-governmental organizations (“NGOs”). Nevertheless, current or future clinical trials could require substantial additional funding. There can be no assurance that funding from governmental agencies and NGOs will continue to be available, and any other Phase 3 trials that Cellegy may commence in the future relating to its products could involve the expenditure of several million dollars through the completion of the clinical trials. In addition, delays in the clinical trial process can be extremely costly in terms of lost sales opportunities and increased clinical trial costs. The speed with which we complete our clinical trials and our regulatory submissions, including NDAs, will depend on several factors, including the following: · the rate of patient enrollment, which is affected by the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the difficulty of the entry criteria for the study and the nature of the protocol; · the timely completion of clinical site protocol approval and obtaining informed consent from subjects; · analysis of data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities; · changes in policies or staff personnel at regulatory agencies during the lengthy drug application review; and · the availability of experienced staff to conduct and monitor clinical studies, internally or through Contract Research Organizations (“CRO”). Adverse events in our clinical trials may force us to stop development of our product candidates or prevent regulatory approval of our product candidates, which could materially harm our business. Patients participating in the clinical trial of our product candidate may experience serious adverse health events. A serious adverse health event includes death, a life-threatening condition, hospitalization, disability, congenital anomaly, or a condition requiring intervention to prevent permanent impairment or damage. The occurrence of any of these events could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of our product candidate and could result in the FDA, or other regulatory authorities, denying approval of our product candidate for any or all targeted indications. An institutional review board or independent data safety monitoring board, the FDA, other regulatory authorities or we may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time. Our product candidates may prove not to be safe for human use. Delay in the regulatory approval of product candidates could increase our product development costs and allow our competitors additional time to develop or market competing products. Due to our reliance on contract research organizations or other third-parties to assist us in conducting clinical trials, we are unable to directly control all aspects of our clinical trials. We have relied on CROs, and other third parties to conduct our clinical trials. In circumstances where trials are conducted by CROs or other third parties, we have had and will continue to have less control over the conduct of the clinical trials, the timing and completion of the trials and the management of data developed through the trial than would be the case if we were relying entirely upon our own staff. Communicating with CROs can also be challenging, potentially leading to difficulties in coordinating activities. CROs may: · have staffing difficulties; · experience regulatory compliance issues; · undergo changes in priorities or may become financially distressed; or 12 · not be able to properly control payments to government agencies or clinical sites, particularly in less developed countries. These factors may adversely affect their ability to conduct trials relating to our product candidates. We may experience unexpected cost increases or experience problems with the timeliness or quality of the work of the CRO. If we must replace these CROs or any other third party contractor, our trials may have to be suspended until we find another CRO that offers comparable services. The time that it takes us to find alternative organizations may cause a delay in the commercialization of our product candidates or may cause us to incur significant expenses. Any delay in or inability to complete clinical trials could significantly compromise our ability to secure regulatory approval of product candidates, thereby limiting our ability to generate product revenue resulting in a decrease in our stock price. The type and scope of the patent coverage we have may limit the commercial success of our products. Cellegy’s success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patent protection for our products and methods, both in the United States and in other countries. No assurance can be given that any additional patents will be issued to us, that the protection of any patents that may be issued in the future will be significant, or that current or future patents will be held valid if subsequently challenged. The patent position of companies engaged in businesses such as Cellegy’s business generally is uncertain and involves complex, legal and factual questions. There is a substantial backlog of patent applications at the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Patents in the United States are issued to the party that is first to invent the claimed invention. There can be no assurance that any patent applications relating to Cellegy’s products or methods will be issued as patents, or, if issued, that the patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted thereunder will provide a competitive advantage. In addition, many other organizations are engaged in research and product development efforts that may overlap with Cellegy’s products. Such organizations may currently have, or may obtain in the future, legally blocking proprietary rights, including patent rights, in one or more products or methods under development or consideration by Cellegy. These rights may prevent us from commercializing technology, or may require Cellegy to obtain a license from the organizations to use the technology. Cellegy may not be able to obtain any such licenses that may be required on reasonable financial terms, if at all, and cannot be sure that the patents underlying any such licenses will be valid or enforceable. Moreover, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights relating to United States patents as extensively as those rights are protected in the United States. The issuance of a patent in one country does not assure the issuance of a patent with similar claims in another country, and claim interpretation and infringement laws vary among countries; therefore, the extent of any patent protection is uncertain and may vary in different countries. As with other companies in the pharmaceutical industry, we are subject to the risk that persons located in other countries will engage in development, marketing or sales activities of products that would infringe our patent rights if such activities were conducted in the United States. We have limited sales and marketing experience. We may market products, if any are successfully developed and approved and if we obtain sufficient funding, through a direct sales force in the United States. Cellegy has very limited experience in sales, marketing or distribution. To market these products directly, we may seek to establish a direct sales force in the United States or obtain the assistance of a marketing partner. However, Cellegy does not presently have the financial capability or the experience to successfully establish a direct sales force, marketing or distribution operations, which could delay or prevent the successful commercialization of our products and could reduce the ultimate profitability for Cellegy of such products if we needed to rely on a third party marketing partner to commercialize the products. If medical doctors do not prescribe our products or the medical profession does not accept our products, our product sales and business would be adversely affected. If one or more of our product candidates are approved for marketing, our business will be dependent in part on market acceptance of our products by physicians, healthcare providers, patients and the medical community. Medical doctors’ willingness to prescribe our products depends on many factors, including: · perceived efficacy of our products; · convenience and ease of administration; · prevalence and severity of adverse side effects in both clinical trials and commercial use; · availability of alternative treatments; 13 · cost effectiveness; · effectiveness of our marketing strategy and the pricing of our products; · publicity concerning our products or competing products; and · our ability to obtain third-party coverage or reimbursement. Even if we receive regulatory approval and satisfy the above criteria, physicians may not prescribe our products if we do not promote our products effectively. Factors that could affect our success in marketing our products include: · the experience, skill and effectiveness of the sales force and our sales managers; · the effectiveness of our production, distribution and marketing capabilities; · the success of competing products; and · the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payors. Failure of our products or product candidates to achieve market acceptance would limit our ability to generate revenue and could harm our business. We have very limited staffing and will continue to be dependent upon key personnel. Our success is dependent upon the efforts of a small management team and staff, including Richard C. Williams, our interim chief executive officer, and Robert J. Caso, our chief financial officer. We do not have key man life insurance policies covering any of our executive officers or key employees. If key individuals leave Cellegy, we could be adversely affected if suitable replacement personnel are not quickly recruited. There is competition for qualified personnel in all functional areas, which makes it difficult to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development and growth of our business. Our future success depends upon our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified scientific, clinical and administrative personnel. Our corporate compliance programs cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. The development, manufacturing, pricing, sales, and reimbursement of our products, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and other authorities within the United States and numerous entities outside of the United States. We are a small company and we rely heavily on third parties to conduct many important functions. We also have significantly fewer employees than many other companies that have the same or fewer product candidates in late stage clinical development. In addition, as a publicly traded company, we are subject to significant regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, some of which have either only recently been adopted. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program and continue to update the program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we cannot assure you that we are now or will be in compliance with all such applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with potentially applicable laws and regulations could lead to the imposition of fines, cause the value of our common stock to decline, and impede our ability to raise capital or lead to the de-listing of our stock. Risks Relating to Our Industry We face intense competition from larger companies, and Cellegy may not have the resources required to develop innovative products. Cellegy’s products are subject to competition from existing products. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to rapid and significant technological change. Cellegy is much smaller in terms of size and resources than many of its competitors in the United States and abroad, which include, among others, major pharmaceutical, chemical, consumer product, specialty pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and other research institutions. Cellegy’s competitors may succeed in developing technologies and products that are safer and more effective than any product or product candidates that we may develop and could render Cellegy’s technology and potential products obsolete and noncompetitive. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial and technical resources, clinical production and marketing capabilities and regulatory experience. In addition, any Cellegy products will likely be subject to competition from existing products. As a result, any future Cellegy products may never be able to compete successfully with existing products or with innovative products under development by other organizations. 14 We are subject to the risk of clinical trial and product liability lawsuits. The testing of human health care product candidates entails an inherent risk of allegations of clinical trial liability, while the marketing and sale of approved products entails an inherent risk of allegations of product liability. We are subject to the risk that substantial liability claims from the testing or marketing of pharmaceutical products could be asserted against us in the future. Cellegy has obtained clinical trial insurance coverage relating to our clinical trials in an aggregate amount of $1 million. If any of our product candidates are approved for marketing, we may seek additional coverage. There can be no assurance that Cellegy will be able to obtain or maintain insurance on acceptable terms, particularly in overseas locations, for clinical and commercial activities or that any insurance obtained will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. Moreover, our current and future coverage may not be adequate to protect us from all of the liabilities that we may incur. If losses from liability claims exceed our insurance coverage, we may incur substantial liabilities that exceed our financial resources. In addition, a product or clinical trial liability action against us would be expensive and time-consuming to defend, even if we ultimately prevail. If we are required to pay a claim, we may not have sufficient financial resources and our business and results of operations may be harmed. Our stock price could be volatile. Our stock price has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Since becoming a public company, our stock price has fluctuated due to overall market conditions and due to matters or events more specific to Cellegy. Events or announcements that could significantly impact our stock price include: · Publicity or announcements regarding regulatory developments relating to our products; · Clinical trial results, particularly the outcome of more advanced studies; or negative responses from both domestic and foreign regulatory authorities with regard to the approvability of our products; · Period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results, including our cash and cash equivalents balance, operating expenses, cash burn rate or revenue levels; · Common stock sales in the public market by one or more of our larger stockholders, officers or directors; · A negative outcome in any litigation or potential legal proceedings; or · Other potentially negative financial announcements such as: a review of any of our filings by the SEC, changes in accounting treatment or restatement of previously reported financial results or delays in our filings with the SEC. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 