ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have notes outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of $2,309,000, which become due in 2010 and which we may be unable to repay at maturity. We have a convertible note outstanding to The G-Max Trust in the principal amount of $500,000 which is due and payable by Adamis on December 31, 2010. We also have several Senior Notes outstanding to a small number of institutional investors in the principal amount of $1,500,000 which become due and payable by Adamis on October 11, 2010. In addition, we have several notes outstanding to Dennis J. Carlo, Ph.D, our chief executive officer and a director, in the principal amount of $309,565 which become due on various dates in 2010. The notes accrue interest at the rate of 10%. We may not have the funds to repay the holders of these notes at maturity or to continue to pay the interest on the notes in the ordinary course which may result in our defaulting under the notes. If this occurs, the holders of the notes would have rights senior to those of our common stockholders, and holders of the Senior Notes would have rights with respect to all of our assets pursuant to the security agreement relating to the Senior Notes. Additionally, the obligations of the Senior Notes are guaranteed by our principal subsidiaries, including Adamis Corporation, Adamis Laboratories, Inc. and Adamis Viral, Inc., and are secured by a security interest in all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries, which is described in the security agreement relating to the Senior Notes. The obligations of the 33 notes issued to Dennis J. Carlo, Ph.D are secured by a subordinated security interest in the assets of Adamis Laboratories, Inc. In the event of a default in any of Adams’ obligations under the Senior Notes, the holders may foreclose on our assets and those of our subsidiaries. Adamis’ limited operating history may make it difficult to evaluate its business to date and Adamis’ future viability. Adamis is in the early stage of operations and development, and has only a limited operating history on which to base an evaluation of its business and prospects, having just commenced operations in 2006. Moreover, Adamis acquired Adamis Labs, formerly Healthcare Ventures Group, during calendar year 2007. Adamis is subject to the risks inherent in the ownership and operation of a company with a limited operating history, such as regulatory setbacks and delays, fluctuations in expenses, competition, the general strength of regional and national economies, and governmental regulation. Any failure to successfully address these risks and uncertainties could seriously harm Adamis’ business and prospects. Adamis may not succeed given the technological, marketing, strategic and competitive chall enges it will face. The likelihood of Adamis’ success must be considered in light of the expenses, difficulties, complications, problems and delays frequently encountered in connection with the growth of a new business, the continuing development of new drug development technology, and the competitive and regulatory environment in which Adamis operates or may choose to operate in the future. Adamis will require additional financing. At March 31, 2010, Adamis and its subsidiaries together had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $290,000 and accounts receivable of approximately $6,000. As described in greater detail below under the heading “Adamis’ Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Recent Convertible Note Transactions,” in December 2009 and January 2010, Adamis raised gross proceeds of approximately $2,000,000 through the issuance of convertible promissory notes and shares of Adamis common stock. These notes become due and payable during calendar year 2010. Adamis will require additional cash resources to continue operations during 2010. Adamis will have capital needs at various times during calendar year 2010, a nd such capital needs will depend in part on the level of product revenues, the amount of additional funds raised in equity or debt transactions, the amounts spent on product development efforts, and whether outstanding convertible notes convert with common stock before their maturity dates in 2010. Adamis’ capital needs could include $4 million or more for ongoing sales, general and administrative activities and expenses and $9 million or more on product development. However, lower revenues or other factors could result in operations, sales and product development activities, expenses and capital needs significantly below these levels. Additional funding will be used to satisfy existing obligations and liabilities and future working capital needs, to build working capital reserves and to fund a number of projects, which may include the following: • market the Adamis Labs PFS Syringe product and the generic nasal steroid product candidate; • pursue the development of other product candidates; • fund clinical trials and seek regulatory approvals; • expand research and development activities; • access manufacturing and commercialization capabilities; • implement additional internal systems and infrastructure; • maintain, defend and expand the scope of Adamis’ intellectual property portfolio; and • hire additional management, sales, research, development and clinical personnel. Statements in this Annual Report, including concerning Adamis’ anticipated or hoped-for target dates for introduction of its nasal steroid, tumor and vaccine product candidates, and for the commencement of clinical trials relating to the steroid, tumor and vaccine product candidates, assume that Adamis will have sufficient funding to support the timely introduction of products and the conduct of clinical trials. Failure to have sufficient funding could require Adamis to delay product launches or clinical trials, which would have an adverse effect on its business and results of operations and which could increase the need for additional financing in the future. 34 Until Adamis can generate a sufficient amount of revenue to finance its cash requirements, which Adamis may never do, Adamis expects to finance future cash needs primarily through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, or licensing revenues from strategic collaborations. Sales of additional equity securities will dilute current stockholders’ ownership percentage in Adamis. Adamis does not know whether additional financing will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If Adamis is not able to secure additional equity or debt financing when needed on acceptable terms, Adamis may have to sell some of its assets or enter into a strategic collaboration for one or more of Adamis’ product candidate programs at an earlier stage of development than would otherwise be desired. 60;This could lower the economic value of these collaborations to Adamis. In addition, Adamis may have to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of its clinical trials or research and development programs, or ultimately, cease operations. Some of Adamis’ potential products and technologies are in early stages of development. The development of new pharmaceutical products is a highly risky undertaking, and there can be no assurance that any future research and development efforts Adamis might undertake will be successful. Adamis’ potential products in oncology and viral fields will require extensive additional research and development before any commercial introduction, and development work on the generic nasal steroid product must still be completed. There can be no assurance that any future research, development or clinical trial efforts will result in viable products or meet efficacy standards. Future clinical or preclinical results may be negative or insufficient to allow Adamis to successfully market its product candidates. Obtaining needed data and results may take longer than planned or may not be obtai ned at all. Any such delays or setbacks could have an adverse effect on the ability of Adamis to achieve its financial goals. Adamis’ corporate compliance programs cannot guarantee that Adamis is now or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. The development, manufacturing, pricing, sales, and reimbursement of pharmaceutical products, together with Adamis’ general operations, are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and other authorities within the United States and numerous entities outside of the United States. Adamis is a small company and it relies on third parties to conduct certain important functions. Adamis relies on a third party clinical regulatory organization, Health Decisions, Inc., pursuant to an agreement between Adamis and the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, to conduct its Phase 3 Savvy clinical trial, and will rely on third parties to assist in evaluation of the results of that trial. In addition, Adamis also has significantly fewer employees than many other companies that have the same or fewer product candidates in clinical development. If Adamis fails to comply with any of these regulations, Adamis could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, including suspension or termination of clinical trials, restrictions on its products or manufacturing processes, or other sanctions or litigation. In addition, as a publicly-traded company, Adamis is subject to significant regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While Adamis has developed and instituted a corporate compliance program and continues to update the program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, Adamis cannot assure you that it is now or will be in compliance with all such applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with potentially applicable laws and regulations could also lead to the imposition of fines, cause the value of Adamis’ common stock to decline and impede Adamis’ ability to raise capital or lead to the fail ure of Adamis’ common stock to continue to be traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. Adamis is subject to substantial government regulation, which could materially adversely affect Adamis’ business. The production and marketing of Adamis’ products and potential products and its ongoing research and development, pre-clinical testing and clinical trial activities are currently subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities in the United States and will face similar regulation and review for overseas approval and sales from governmental authorities outside of the United States. Some of the product candidates that Adamis is currently developing must undergo rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing and an extensive regulatory approval process before they can be marketed. This process makes it longer, more difficult and more costly to bring Adamis’ potential products to market, and Adamis cannot guarantee that any of its potential products will be approved. Th e pre-marketing approval process can be particularly expensive, uncertain and lengthy, and a number of products for which FDA approval has been sought by other companies have never been approved for marketing. In addition to testing and approval procedures, extensive regulations also govern marketing, manufacturing, distribution, labeling, and record-keeping procedures. If Adamis or its collaboration partners do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, such violations could result in non-approval, suspensions of regulatory 35 approvals, civil penalties and criminal fines, product seizures and recalls, operating restrictions, injunctions, and criminal prosecution. Withdrawal or rejection of FDA or other government entity approval of Adamis’ potential products may also adversely affect Adamis’ business. Such rejection may be encountered due to, among other reasons, lack of efficacy during clinical trials, unforeseen safety issues, inability to follow patients after treatment in clinical trials, inconsistencies between early clinical trial results and results obtained in later clinical trials, varying interpretations of data generated by clinical trials, or changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development in the United States and abroad. In the United States, there is stringent FDA oversight in product clearance and enforcement activities, causing medical product development to experience longer approval cycles, greater risk and uncertainty, and higher expenses. Internationally, there is a risk that Adamis may not be successful in meeting the quality standards or other certification requirements. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, this approval may entail limitations on uses for which the product may be labeled and promoted, or may prevent Adamis from broadening the uses of Adamis’ current or potential products for different applications. In addition, Adamis may not receive FDA approval to export Adamis’ potential products in the future, and countries to which potential products are to be exported may not approve them for import. Manufacturing facilities for Adamis’ products will also be subject to continual governmental review and inspection. The FDA has stated publicly that compliance with manufacturing regulations will continue to be strictly scrutinized. To the extent Adamis decides to manufacture its own products, a governmental authority may challenge Adamis’ compliance with applicable federal, state and foreign regulations. In addition, any discovery of previously unknown problems with one of Adamis’ potential products or facilities may result in restrictions on the potential product or the facility. If Adamis decides to outsource the commercial production of its products, any challenge by a regulatory authority of the compliance of the manufacturer could hinder Adamis’ ability to bring it s products to market. Some of Adamis Labs’ products that have been drug listed with the FDA are marketed without an approved new drug application or abbreviated new drug application. The FDA could at some future date seek to prevent marketing of these products, require that such products be marketed only after submission and approval of drug applications, or take other regulatory action against Adamis with respect to these products, which could have an adverse effect on Adamis. Several of Adamis Labs’ products, including AeroHist Caplets, AeroHist Plus Caplets, AeroKid Oral Liquid and AeroOtic HC Ear Drops, and the Epi Syringe, were not the subject of a new drug application or abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, and have not been specifically approved by the FDA for marketing by Adamis. These products have been marketed for many years and, Adamis believes, are similarly situated to products marketed by many companies that are marketed without an approved new drug application or abbreviated new drug application. The products are drug listed with the FDA in the National Drug Code Directory but such listing does not constitute FDA approval of the products. In June 2006, the FDA issued a Compliance Policy Guide for Marketed Unapproved Drugs, which addressed some of the considerations utilized by the FDA in exercising its discretion with respect to products marketed without FDA approval. The guide does not establish legally enforceable responsibilities on the FDA and generally only represents the agency’s current thinking on a topic. The guide emphasizes that any product that is being marketed without required FDA approvals is subject to FDA enforcement action at any time. If the FDA were to issue a Federal Register Notice outlining revised conditions for marketing, which could include calling for the submission of an application for products such as Adamis’ cough/cold products, then Adamis would take appropriate action so as to be in compliance with any such policies. The FDA might also require clinical trials in support of any such applications, and Adamis would need to evaluate its alternatives in light of the costs required to conduct such trials, which could be substantial, compared to the economic benefit to Adam is from such products. In addition, independently of such actions, at anytime the FDA could also exercise its discretion to proceed against Adamis and require immediate withdrawal of the PFS Syringe product or other products from the market, or prohibit Adamis from marketing the PFS Syringe product or one or more of such other products without first conducting required trials and obtaining approvals, or to impose other penalties on Adamis. Some of Adamis Labs’ unapproved products include extended release formulations, which may subject Adamis to a higher risk of FDA enforcement action. Such actions could have a material adverse effect on Adamis’ business, financial condition and results of operations. Adamis relies on third parties to conduct its clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, Adamis may be unable to obtain, or may experience delays in 36 obtaining, regulatory approval, or may not be successful in commercializing Adamis’ planned and future products. Like many companies its size, Adamis does not have the ability to conduct preclinical or clinical studies for its product candidates without the assistance of third parties who conduct the studies on its behalf. These third parties are usually toxicology facilities and clinical research organizations, or CROs, that have significant resources and experience in the conduct of pre-clinical and clinical studies. The toxicology facilities conduct the pre-clinical safety studies as well as all associated tasks connected with these studies. The CROs typically perform patient recruitment, project management, data management, statistical analysis, and other reporting functions. Adamis intends to rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials of its product candidates and to use different toxicology fa cilities and CROs for its pre-clinical and clinical studies. Adamis’ reliance on these third parties for development activities will reduce its control over these activities. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to Adamis’ clinical protocols or for other reasons, Adamis’ clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, Adamis may be required to replace them. Although Adamis believes there are a number of third-party contractors it could engage to continue these activities, replacing a third-party contractor may result in a delay of the affected tria l. Accordingly, Adamis may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize its product candidates. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing of Adamis’ product candidates could result in increased costs to Adamis and delay its ability to generate significant revenues. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could significantly impact Adamis’ product development costs. Adamis does not know whether current or planned clinical trials will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in: • obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; • reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations and clinical trial sites; • obtaining sufficient quantities of clinical trial materials for any or all product candidates; • obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; and • recruiting participants for a clinical trial. In addition, once a clinical trial has begun, it may be suspended or terminated by Adamis or the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements; • inspection of the clinical trial operations or clinical trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; • failure to achieve certain efficacy and/or safety standards; or • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. Clinical trials require sufficient participant enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the target population, the nature of the trial protocol, the proximity of participants to clinical trial sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the eligibility criteria for Adamis’ clinical trials and competing trials. Delays in enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times. Adamis’ failure to enroll participants in its clinical trials could delay the completion of the clinical trials beyond current expectations. In addition, the FDA could require Adamis to conduct clinical trials with a larger number of participants than it may project for any of its product candidates. As a result of these factors, Adamis m ay not be able to enroll a sufficient number of participants in a timely or cost-effective manner. 37 Furthermore, enrolled participants may drop out of clinical trials, which could impair the validity or statistical significance of the clinical trials. A number of factors can influence the discontinuation rate, including, but not limited to: the inclusion of a placebo in a trial; possible lack of effect of the product candidate being tested at one or more of the dose levels being tested; adverse side effects experienced, whether or not related to the product candidate; and the availability of numerous alternative treatment options that may induce participants to discontinue from the trial. Adamis, the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a product candidate at any time if Adamis or they believe the participants in such clinical trials, or in independent third-party clinical trials for drugs based on similar technologies, are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Adamis and its current officers and directors have been named defendants in a lawsuit alleging, among other things, that Adamis made material misrepresentations in private placement memoranda used to offer Adamis’ common stock to the plaintiffs, and that Adamis’ officers and directors have breached their fiduciary duties in connection with certain transactions. In addition, a lawsuit has been filed against Adamis for declaratory relief seeking a declaration that certain patent licenses held by Adamis are invalid. Although we believe the lawsuits are without merit and that we have substantial defenses to these lawsuits, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could adversely affect our results of operations, our financial condition and liquidity. ; In addition, a loss of the license for certain patents could lead to a significant loss of sales and could materially affect future results of operations. Adamis is subject to the risk of clinical trial and product liability lawsuits. The testing of human health care product candidates entails an inherent risk of allegations of clinical trial liability, while the marketing and sale of approved products entails an inherent risk of allegations of product liability. Adamis currently maintains liability insurance coverage of $5,000,000. However, as Adamis conducts additional clinical trials and introduces products into the United States market, the risk of adverse events increases and Adamis’ requirements for liability insurance coverage are likely to increase. Adamis is subject to the risk that substantial liability claims from the testing or marketing of pharmaceutical products could be asserted against it in the future. There can be no assurance that Adamis will be able to obtain or maintain insurance on acceptable term s, particularly in overseas locations, for clinical and commercial activities or that any insurance obtained will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. Moreover, Adamis’ current and future coverages may not be adequate to protect Adamis from all of the liabilities that it may incur. If losses from liability claims exceed Adamis’ insurance coverage, Adamis may incur substantial liabilities that exceed its financial resources. In addition, a product or clinical trial liability action against Adamis would be expensive and time-consuming to defend, even if Adamis ultimately prevailed. If Adamis is required to pay a claim, Adamis may not have sufficient financial resources and its business and results of operations may be harmed. Adamis does not have commercial-scale manufacturing capability, and it lacks commercial manufacturing experience. Adamis will likely rely on third parties to manufacture and supply its product candidates. Adamis does not own or operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of product candidates. Adamis does not have any experience in drug formulation or manufacturing, and it lacks the resources and the capability to manufacture any of its product candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. Accordingly, Adamis expects to depend on third-party contract manufacturers for the foreseeable future. Any performance failure on the part of Adamis’ contract manufacturers could delay clinical development, regulatory approval or commercialization of Adamis’ current or future product candidates, depriving Adamis of potential product revenue and resulting in additional losses. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up initial production. 38 These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control (including stability of the product candidate and quality assurance testing), shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. If Adamis’ third-party contract manufacturers were to encounter any of these difficulties or otherwise fail to comply with their obligations or under applicable regulations, Adamis’ ability to provide product candidates to patients in its clinical trials or commercially would be jeopardized. As an example, Adamis’ PFS Syringe product is currently manufactured by Catalent Pharma Solutions (an FDA licensed and approved cGMP facility) in Brussels, Belgium and, therefore, is subject to regulation by the Belgian Ministry of H ealth as well as the FDA. Any delay or interruption in the supply of product could delay the completion of Adamis’ commercial launch or clinical trials, increase the costs associated with maintaining Adamis’ commercial production or clinical trial programs and, depending upon the period of delay, require Adamis to commence new trials or qualify new manufacturers at significant additional expense, possibly causing commercial delays or termination of the trials. Adamis’ products can only be manufactured in a facility that has undergone a satisfactory inspection by the FDA and other relevant regulatory authorities. For these reasons, Adamis may not be able to replace manufacturing capacity for its products quickly if it or its contract manufacturer(s) were unable to use manufacturing facilities as a result of a fire, natural disaster (including an earthquake), equipment failure, or other difficulty, or if such facilities were deemed not in compliance with the regulatory requirements and such non-compliance could not be rapidly rectified. An inability or reduced capacity to manufacture Adamis products would have a material adverse effect on Adamis’ business, financial condition, and results of operations. If Adamis fails to obtain acceptable prices or appropriate reimbursement for its products, its ability to successfully commercialize its products will be impaired. Government and insurance reimbursements for healthcare expenditures play an important role for all healthcare providers, including physicians and pharmaceutical companies such as Adamis that plan to offer various products in the United States and other countries in the future. Adamis’ ability to earn sufficient returns on its products and potential products will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of such products will be available from government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers, managed care organizations, and other organizations. In the United States, Adamis’ ability to have its products eligible for Medicare, Medicaid or private insurance reimbursement will be an important factor in determining the ultimate success of its products. ; If, for any reason, Medicare, Medicaid or the insurance companies decline to provide reimbursement for Adamis’ products, its ability to commercialize its products would be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that Adamis’ potential drug products will be eligible for reimbursement. There has been a trend toward declining government and private insurance expenditures for many healthcare items and this trend may accelerate with proposed healthcare reform legislation. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price of medical and pharmaceutical products. If purchasers or users of Adamis’ products and related treatments are not able to obtain appropriate reimbursement for the cost of using such products, they may forego or reduce such use. Even if Adamis’ products are approved for reimbursement by Medicare, Medicaid and private insurers, of which there can be no assurance, the amount of reimbursement may be reduced at times or even eliminated. This would have a material adverse effect on Adamis’ business, financial condition and results of operations. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved pharmaceutical products, and there can be no assurance that adequate third-party coverage will be available. Legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system may affect Adamis’ ability to sell its products profitably. In both the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been and are expected to be a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the healthcare system in ways that could impact Adamis’ ability to sell its products profitably, including the Affordable Care Act signed into law in the United States on March 22, 2010. In recent years, new legislation has been enacted in the United States at the federal and state levels that effects major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. These new laws include a prescription drug benefit plan for Medicare beneficiaries and certain changes in Medicare reimbursement. Given the recent enactment of these laws, it is still too early to determine their impact on the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries and A damis’ business. Further, the U.S. Congress is considering a significant healthcare overhaul proposal that may affect Adamis’ ability to market and sell products on favorable terms, which would affect Adamis’ results of 39 operations as well as its ability to raise capital, obtain additional collaborators or profitably market its products. Such proposals may reduce Adamis’ revenues, increase its expenses or limit the markets for its products. In particular, Adamis expects to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of its products due to the trend toward managed health care, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals. Adamis has limited sales, marketing and distribution experience. Adamis has limited experience in the sales, marketing, and distribution of pharmaceutical products. There can be no assurance that Adamis will be able to establish sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with its current collaborators or others to perform such activities or that such efforts will be successful. If Adamis decides to market any of its new products directly, it must either acquire or internally develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capabilities. The acquisition or development of a sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure would require substantial resources, which may not be available to Adamis or, even if available, divert the attention of its management and key personnel, and have a negative impact on further product development efforts. Adamis may seek to enter into arrangements to develop and commercialize its products. These collaborations, if secured, may not be successful. Adamis has entered into arrangements with third parties regarding development and commercialization of some of its products and may in the future seek to enter into collaborative arrangements to develop and commercialize some of its potential products both in North America and international markets. There can be no assurance that Adamis will be able to negotiate collaborative arrangements on favorable terms or at all or that its current or future collaborative arrangements will be successful. Adamis’ strategy for the future research, development, and commercialization of its products is expected to be based in part on entering into various arrangements with corporate collaborators, licensors, licensees, health care institutions and principal investigators and others, and its commercial success is dependent upon these outside parties performing their respective contractual obligations responsibly and with integrity. The amount and timing of resources such third parties will devote to these activities may not be within Adamis’ control. There can be no assurance that such parties will perform their obligations as expected. There can be no assurance that Adamis’ collaborators will devote adequate resources to its products. If Adamis is not successful in acquiring or licensing additional product candidates on acceptable terms, if at all, Adamis’ business may be adversely affected. As part of its strategy, Adamis may acquire or license additional product candidates that it believes have growth potential. There are no assurances that Adamis will be able to identify promising product candidates. Even if Adamis is successful in identifying promising product candidates, Adamis may not be able to reach an agreement for the acquisition or license of the product candidates with their owners on acceptable terms or at all. Adamis may not be able to successfully identify any other commercial products or product candidates to in-license, acquire or internally develop. Moreover, negotiating and implementing an economically viable in-licensing arrangement or acquisition is a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater resources, may compete with Adamis for the in-licensing or acquisition of product candidates and approved products. Adamis may not be able to acquire or in-license the rights to additional product candidates and approved products on terms that it finds acceptable, or at all. If it is unable to in-license or acquire additional commercial products or product candidates, Adamis’ ability to grow its business or increase its profits could be severely limited . If Adamis’ competitors develop and market products that are more effective than Adamis’ product candidates or obtain regulatory and marketing approval for similar products before Adamis does, Adamis’ commercial opportunity may be reduced or eliminated. The development and commercialization of new pharmaceutical products that target certain cancers and viral conditions, and allergy and other respiratory conditions addressed by the current and future products of Adamis Labs, is competitive, and Adamis faces competition from numerous sources, including major biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies worldwide. Many of Adamis’ competitors have substantially greater financial and technical resources, and development, production and marketing capabilities than Adamis does. In addition, many of these companies have more experience than Adamis in pre-clinical testing, clinical trials and manufacturing of 40 compounds, as well as in obtaining FDA and foreign regulatory approvals. Adamis also competes with academic institutions, governmental agencies and private organizations that are conducting research in the same fields. Competition among these entities to recruit and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and professional personnel and consultants is also intense. As a result, there is a risk that one of Adamis’ competitors will develop a more effective product for the same indications for which Adamis is developing a product or, alternatively, bring a similar product to market before Adamis can do so. Failure of Adamis to successfully compete will adversely impact the ability to raise additional capital and ultimately achieve profitable operations. If Adamis suffers negative publicity concerning the safety of its products in development, its sales may be harmed and Adamis may be forced to withdraw such products. If concerns should arise about the safety of any of Adamis’ products that are marketed, regardless of whether or not such concerns have a basis in generally accepted science or peer-reviewed scientific research, such concerns could adversely affect the market for these products. Similarly, negative publicity could result in an increased number of product liability claims, whether or not these claims are supported by applicable law. Adamis’ failure to adequately protect or to enforce its intellectual property rights or secure rights to third party patents could materially harm its proprietary position in the marketplace or prevent the commercialization of its products. Adamis’ success depends in part on its ability to obtain and maintain protection in the United States and other countries for the intellectual property covering or incorporated into its technologies and products. The patents and patent applications in Adamis’ existing patent portfolio are either owned by Adamis or licensed to Adamis. Adamis’ ability to protect its product candidates from unauthorized use or infringement by third parties depends substantially on its ability to obtain and maintain valid and enforceable patents. Due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, Adamis’ ability to obtain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves c omplex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles are unresolved. There is a substantial backlog of patent applications at the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO. Patents in the United States are issued to the party that is first to invent the claimed invention. There can be no assurance that any patent applications relating to Adamis’ products or methods will be issued as patents, or, if issued, that the patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted thereunder will provide a competitive advantage. Adamis may not be able to obtain patent rights on products, treatment methods or manufacturing processes that it may develop or to which Adamis may obtain license or other rights. Even if Adamis does obtain patents, rights under any issued patents may not provide it with sufficient protection for its p roduct candidates or provide sufficient protection to afford Adamis a commercial advantage against its competitors or their competitive products or processes. It is possible that no patents will be issued from any pending or future patent applications owned by Adamis or licensed to Adamis. Others may challenge, seek to invalidate, infringe or circumvent any patents Adamis owns or licenses. Alternatively, Adamis may in the future be required to initiate litigation against third parties to enforce its intellectual property rights. The defense and prosecution of patent and intellectual property claims are both costly and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to Adamis. Any adverse outcome could subject Adamis to significant liabilities, require Adamis to license disputed rights from others, or require Adamis to cease selling its future products. In addition, many other organizations are engaged in research and product development efforts that may overlap with Adamis’ products. For example, Adamis’ PFS Syringe product competes against other self-administered epinephrine products, including EpiPen, EpiPen Jr. and Twinject; Adamis Labs’ line of allergy and respiratory products compete with numerous prescription and non-prescription over-the-counter products targeting similar conditions; and with regard to the Savvy product candidate, Ortho Pharmaceuticals and many other companies offer contraceptive vaginal gel products. Such organizations may currently have, or may obtain in the future, legally blocking proprietary rights, including patent rights, in one or more products or methods under development or consideration by Adamis. The se rights may prevent Adamis from commercializing technology, or may require Adamis to obtain a license from the organizations to use the technology. Adamis may not be able to obtain any such licenses that may be required on reasonable financial terms, if at all, and cannot be sure that the patents underlying any such licenses will be valid or enforceable. As with other companies in the pharmaceutical industry, Adamis is subject to the risk that persons located in other countries will engage in development, marketing 41 or sales activities of products that would infringe Adamis’ patent rights if such activities were conducted in the United States. Adamis’ patents also may not afford protection against competitors with similar technology. Adamis may not have identified all patents, published applications or published literature that affect its business either by blocking Adamis’ ability to commercialize its product candidates, by preventing the patentability of its products or by covering the same or similar technologies that may affect Adamis’ ability to market or license its product candidates. For example, patent applications filed with the USPTO are maintained in confidence for up to 18 months after their filing. In some cases, however, patent applications filed with the USPTO remain confidential for the entire time before issuance as a U.S. patent. Patent applications filed in countries outside the United States are not typically published until at least 18 months from their first filing date. Similarly, publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries. Therefore, Adamis or its licensors might not have been the first to invent, or the first to file, patent applications on Adamis’ product candidates or for their use. The laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States, and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending these rights in foreign jurisdictions. If Adamis encounters such difficulties or is otherwise precluded from effectively protecting its intellectual property rights in either the United States or foreign jurisdictions, Adamis’ business prospects could be substantially harmed. If adequate funding is not obtained, the board of directors of Adamis will be required to explore alternatives for Adamis’ business and assets. These alternatives might include seeking the dissolution and liquidation of Adamis, seeking to merge or combine with another company, selling or licensing some of Adamis’ intellectual property, or initiating bankruptcy proceedings. There can be no assurance that any third party will be interested in merging with Adamis or would agree to a price and other terms that Adamis would deem adequate. If Adamis filed for bankruptcy, it would most likely not be able to raise any type of funding from any source. In that event, the creditors of Adamis would have first claim on the value of the assets of Adamis which, other than remaining cash, would mos t likely be liquidated in a bankruptcy sale. Adamis can give no assurance as to the magnitude of the net proceeds of such sale and whether such proceeds would be sufficient to satisfy Adamis’ obligations to its creditors, let alone to permit any distribution to its equity holders. Adamis’ management will be required to devote substantial time to comply with public company regulations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC, impose various requirements on public companies, including with respect to corporate governance practices. Adamis’ management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these requirements. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that Adamis maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, Adamis must perform system and process evaluation and testing of its internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of its internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Adamis’ compliance with Section 404 will require that it incur substantial accounting and related expense and expend significant management efforts. Adamis may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff to satisfy the ongoing requirements of Section 404. Moreover, if Adamis is not able to comply with the requirements of Sec tion 404, or if Adamis or its independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in its internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of Adamis’ stock could decline and Adamis could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Adamis has incurred losses since its inception and anticipates that Adamis will continue to incur losses. Adamis may never achieve or sustain profitability. Adamis incurred net losses of approximately $18,740,000 since inception and net losses of approximately $6,160,000 for its fiscal year ended March 31, 2010.These losses may increase as Adamis continues its research and development activities, seeks regulatory approvals for its product candidates and commercializes any approved products. These losses may cause, among other things, Adamis’ stockholders’ equity and working capital to decrease. The future earnings and cash flow from operations of Adamis’ business are dependent, in part, on its ability to further develop its products and on revenues and profitability from sales of products and product candidates of its Adamis Labs operations. 42 There can be no assurance that Adamis will grow and be profitable. There can be no assurance that Adamis will be able to generate sufficient product revenue to become profitable at all or on a sustained basis. Adamis expects to have quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenues and expenses, some of which could be significant, due to expanded manufacturing, marketing, research, development, and clinical trial activities. If Adamis’ product candidates fail in clinical trials or do not gain regulatory approval, or if Adamis’ products do not achieve market acceptance, Adamis may never become profitable. Adamis will need to increase product marketing and brand awareness and conduct significant research, development, testing and regulatory compliance activities that, together with projected general and administrative expenses, are expected to result in substantial operating losses for the foreseeable future. Even if Adamis does achieve profitability, it may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Adamis has received a “going concern” opinion from its independent registered public accounting firm, which may negatively impact Adamis’ business. Adamis’ audit opinions from its independent registered public accounting firm regarding the consolidated financial statements for the years ended March 31, 2010 and 2009 include an explanatory paragraph indicating that Adamis has incurred recurring losses from operations and has limited working capital to pursue its business alternatives, and that these factors raise substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern. Without additional funds from debt or equity financing, sales of assets, intellectual property or technologies, or from a business combination or a similar transaction, Adamis will exhaust its resources and will be unable to continue operations. These factors raise substantial doubt about Adamis’ ability to continue as a going concern. Adamis may be required to suspend, repeat or terminate its clinical trials if the trials are not well designed, do not meet regulatory requirements or the results are negative or inconclusive, which may result in significant negative repercussions on Adamis’ business and financial condition. Before regulatory approval for any potential product can be obtained, Adamis must undertake extensive clinical testing on humans to demonstrate the tolerability and efficacy of the product, both on its own terms, and as compared to the other principal drugs on the market that have the same therapeutic indication. Adamis cannot assure you that it will obtain authorization to permit product candidates that are already in the preclinical development phase to enter the human clinical testing phase. In addition, Adamis cannot assure you that any authorized preclinical or clinical testing will be completed successfully within any specified time period by Adamis, or without significant additional resources or expertise to those originally expected to be necessary. Adamis cannot assure you that such testing will show potential products to be safe and efficacious or that any such product will be approved for a specific indication. Further, the results from preclinical studies and early clinical trials may not be indicative of the results that will be obtained in later-stage clinical trials. In addition, Adamis or regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials at any time on the basis that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. Completion of clinical tests depends on, among other things, the number of patients available for testing, which is a function of many factors, including the number of patients with the relevant conditions, the nature of the clinical testing, the proximity of patients to clinical testing centers, the eligibility criteria for tests as well as competition with other clinical testing programs involving the same patient profile but different treatments. Adamis will rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations and/or co-operative groups, to assist it in overseeing and monitoring clinical trials as well as to process the clinical results and manage test requests, which may result in delays or failure to complete trials, if the third parties fail to perform or to meet the applicable standards. A failure b y Adamis or such third parties to keep to the terms of a product program development for any particular product candidate or to complete the clinical trials for a product candidate in the envisaged time frame could have significant negative repercussions on Adamis’ business and financial condition. Even if Adamis receives regulatory approval to market its product candidates, such products may not gain the market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community. Any products that Adamis may develop may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community even if they ultimately receive regulatory approval. If these products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, Adamis, or future collaborators, may not be able to generate material product revenues and Adamis may not become profitable. The degree of market acceptance of any of Adamis’ product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: • demonstration of efficacy and safety in clinical trials; 43 • the prevalence and severity of any unexpected side effects; • the introduction and availability of generic substitutes for any of Adamis’ products, potentially at lower prices (which, in turn, will depend on the strength of Adamis’ intellectual property protection for such products); • potential or perceived advantages over alternative treatments; • the timing of market entry relative to competitive treatments; • the ability to offer Adamis’ product candidates for sale at competitive prices; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the strength of marketing and distribution support; • sufficient third party coverage or reimbursement; and • the product labeling or product insert (including any warnings) required by the FDA or regulatory authorities in other countries. Adamis may not complete its clinical trials in the time expected, which could delay or prevent the commercialization of its products, which may adversely affect Adamis’ future revenues and financial condition. Although for planning purposes Adamis will forecast the commencement and completion of clinical trials, the actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to factors such as delays, scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions and the rate of patient enrollment. Clinical trials involving Adamis’ product candidates may not commence or be completed as forecast. In certain circumstances, Adamis will rely on academic institutions or clinical research organizations to conduct, supervise or monitor some or all aspects of clinical trials involving Adamis’ products. Adamis will have less control over the timing and other aspects of these clinical trials than if it conducted them entirely on its own. These trials may not commence or be completed as Ad amis expects and may not be conducted successfully. Failure to commence or complete, or delays in, any of Adamis’ planned clinical trials could delay or prevent the commercialization of Adamis’ products and harm its business and may adversely affect Adamis’ future revenues and financial condition. If Adamis fails to keep pace with rapid technological change in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, its products could become obsolete, which may adversely affect Adamis’ future revenues and financial condition. Biotechnology and related pharmaceutical technology have undergone and are subject to rapid and significant change. Adamis expects that the technologies associated with biotechnology research and development will continue to develop rapidly. Adamis’ future will depend in large part on its ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to these technologies. Any compounds, products or processes that Adamis develops may become obsolete before Adamis recovers any expenses incurred in connection with developing these products, which may adversely affect Adamis’ future revenues and financial condition. If Adamis is unable to retain its management, research, development, and clinical teams and scientific advisors or to attract additional qualified personnel, Adamis’ product operations and development efforts may be seriously jeopardized. Adamis’ success will be dependent upon the efforts of a small management team and staff, including Dennis J. Carlo, Ph.D. The employment of Dr. Carlo may be terminated at any time by either Adamis or Dr. Carlo. Adamis currently does not, and Adamis will not, have key man life insurance policies covering any of its executive officers or key employees. If key individuals leave Adamis, Adamis could be adversely affected if suitable replacement personnel are not quickly recruited. There is competition for qualified personnel in all functional areas, which makes it difficult to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the operation of Adamis’ business. The loss of the services of any principal member of Adamis’ management and research, development and clinical teams could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of Adamis’ scientific and business objectives. Competition among biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies for qualified employees is intense, and the ability to retain and attract qualified individuals is critical to Adamis’ success. Adamis may be unable to attract and retain key personnel on acceptable terms, if at all. 44 Adamis has relationships with consultants and scientific advisors who will continue to assist Adamis in formulating and executing its research, development, regulatory and clinical strategies. These consultants and scientific advisors are not Adamis employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to Adamis. Adamis will have only limited control over the activities of these consultants and scientific advisors and can generally expect these individuals to devote only limited time to Adamis’ activities. Adamis also relies on these consultants to evaluate potential compounds and products, which may be important in developing a long-term product pipeline for Adamis. Consultants also assist Adamis in preparing and submitting regulatory filings. Adamis’ scientific advisors provide scientific and technical guidance on the company’s drug discovery and development. Failure of any of these persons to devote sufficient time and resources to Adamis’ programs could harm its business. In addition, these advisors may have arrangements with other companies to assist those companies in developing technologies that may compete with Adamis’ products. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Provisions of our charter documents could discourage an acquisition of our company that would benefit its stockholders and may have the effect of entrenching, and making it difficult to remove, management. Provisions of Adamis’ certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of Adamis, even if a change of control would benefit Adamis’ stockholders. In particular, shares of Adamis preferred stock may be issued in the future without further stockholder approval, and upon such terms and conditions, and have such rights, privileges and preferences, as Adamis’ board of directors may determine, including, for example, rights to convert into Adamis common stock. The rights of the holders of Adamis common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any of Adamis’ preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of Adamis preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of Adamis. This could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of Adamis common stock and discourage those investors from acquiring a majority of Adamis common stock. Further, the existence of these corporate governance provisions could have the effect of entrenching management and making it more difficult to change Adamis’ management. We may be required to pay liquidated damages to certain investors if we do not maintain an effective registration statement relating to common stock issuable upon conversion of our Senior Notes. We have several senior secured notes outstanding, referred to as the Senior Notes, to a small number of institutional investors in the principal amount of $1,500,000 which become due and payable by Adamis on October 11, 2010. The definitive agreements relating to the Senior Notes require, among other things, that Adamis maintain an effective registration statement for common stock issuable upon conversion of the Senior Notes if they are not freely tradable under Rule 144 on or after six months after the date the Senior Notes were issued. If such shares are not freely tradable, then failure to maintain an effective registration statement relating to the common stock issuable upon conversion of the Senior Notes may result in liquidated damages payable to the Senior Note holders. We have issued and outstanding Senior Notes with rights and preferences superior to those of our common stock. The issued and outstanding shares of the Senior Notes grants the holders of such Senior Notes anti-dilution and liquidations rights that are superior to those held by the holders of our common stock. Should Adamis issue additional common stock or other securities for a price below $0.20 per share, the conversion price of the Senior Notes shall be lowered to the price at which such securities are issued, which will have the effect of immediately diluting the holders of our common stock. Adamis’ common stock price is expected to be volatile. The market price of Adamis’ common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations following this offering. Market prices for securities of early-stage pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences companies have historically been particularly volatile. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of Adamis’ common stock to fluctuate include: • the results of Adamis’ current and any future clinical trials of its product candidates; • the timing and results of ongoing preclinical studies and planned clinical trials of Adamis’ preclinical product candidates; 45 • the entry into, or termination of, key agreements, including, among others, key collaboration and license agreements; • the results and timing of regulatory reviews relating to the approval of Adamis’ product candidates; • the initiation of, material developments in, or conclusion of, litigation to enforce or defend any of Adamis’ intellectual property rights; • failure of any of Adamis’ product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; • general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect Adamis’ research and development expenditures; • the results of clinical trials conducted by others on drugs that would compete with Adamis’ product candidates; • issues in manufacturing Adamis’ product candidates or any approved products; • the loss of key employees; • the introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by competitors of Adamis; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover Adamis’ common stock; • future sales of Adamis’ common stock; • period-to-period fluctuations in Adamis’ financial results; • publicity or announcements regarding regulatory developments relating to Adamis’ products; • clinical trial results, particularly the outcome of more advanced studies, or negative responses from both domestic and foreign regulatory authorities with regard to the approvability of Adamis’ products; • period-to-period fluctuations in Adamis’ financial results, including Adamis’ cash and cash equivalents balance, operating expenses, cash burn rate or revenue levels; • common stock sales in the public market by one or more of Adamis’ larger stockholders, officers or directors; • Adamis’ filing for protection under federal bankruptcy laws; • a negative outcome in any litigation or potential legal proceedings; or • other potentially negative financial announcements including: a review of any of Adamis’ filings by the SEC, changes in accounting treatment or restatement of previously reported financial results or delays in Adamis’ filings with the SEC. The stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the trading price of Adamis’ common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm Adamis’ profitability and reputation. Adamis’ common stock is expected to be traded on the OTC Bulletin Board and be subject to additional trading restrictions as a “penny stock,” which could adversely affect the liquidity and price of such stock. Adamis’ common stock trades on the OTC Bulletin Board, or OTCBB. The OTCBB and Pink Sheets are viewed by most investors as a less desirable, and less liquid, marketplace. As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to purchase, dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the value of our common stock. 46 Because Adamis’ common stock is not listed on any national securities exchange, such shares will also be subject to the regulations regarding trading in “penny stocks,” which are those securities trading for less than $5.00 per share. The following is a list of the general restrictions on the sale of penny stocks: • Before the sale of penny stock by a broker-dealer to a new purchaser, the broker-dealer must determine whether the purchaser is suitable to invest in penny stocks. To make that determination, a broker-dealer must obtain, from a prospective investor, information regarding the purchaser’s financial condition and investment experience and objectives. Subsequently, the broker-dealer must deliver to the purchaser a written statement setting forth the basis of the suitability finding and obtain the purchaser’s signature on such statement. • A broker-dealer must obtain from the purchaser an agreement to purchase the securities. This agreement must be obtained for every purchase until the purchaser becomes an “established customer.” A broker-dealer may not effect a purchase of a penny stock less than two business days after a broker-dealer sends such agreement to the purchaser. • The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, requires that before effecting any transaction in any penny stock, a broker-dealer must provide the purchaser with a “risk disclosure document” that contains, among other things, a description of the penny stock market and how it functions and the risks associated with such investment. These disclosure rules are applicable to both purchases and sales by investors. • A dealer that sells penny stock must send to the purchaser, within ten days after the end of each calendar month, a written account statement including prescribed information relating to the security. These requirements can severely limit the liquidity of securities in the secondary market because few brokers or dealers are likely to be willing to undertake these compliance activities. As a result of Adamis’ common stock not being listed on a national securities exchange and the rules and restrictions regarding penny stock transactions, an investor’s ability to sell to a third party and Adamis’ ability to raise additional capital may be limited. Adamis makes no guarantee that its market-makers will continue to make a market in its common stock, or that any market for its common stock will continue. Adamis’ principal stockholders have significant influence over Adamis, and your interests as a stockholder may conflict with the interests of those persons. Based on the number of outstanding shares of Adamis common stock held by Adamis stockholders as of March 31, 2010, Adamis’ ten largest stockholders beneficially own approximately 49.6% of the outstanding Adamis common stock. As a result, those stockholders will be able to exert a significant degree of influence or actual control over Adamis’ management and affairs after the merger and over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of Adamis’ assets, and any other significant corporate transaction. The interests of these persons may not always coincide with the interests of Adamis or its other stockholders. For example, such persons could delay or prevent a change of control of Adamis even if such a change of control would benefit Adamis’ other stockholders. The significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of Adamis’ common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 