Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and trading price of our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not known to us or that we do not consider to be material at this time. If the events described in these risks occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would likely suffer. Risks Related to our Business Our past losses and expected future losses cast doubt on our ability to continue as a going concern and operate profitably. As of December 31, 2012, we have $13,638,000 of cash and cash equivalents. This is not sufficient to sustain our operations for one year. In light of our financial position, we are evaluating strategic and financial opportunities in the short-term in order to maintain adequate liquidity through December 31, 2013 and beyond. Additionally, we could sell shares through an At the Market Sales Agreement (ATM) in order to raise additional capital, though there are certain factors, such as volume of trading in our stock, our stock price and the ability to terminate the agreement with notice, which could limit the amount we could raise in a short period of time. On a longer term basis, we will need to raise additional funds in order to complete product development programs and complete clinical trials needed to market and commercialize our products. We cannot be certain that such funding will be available on favorable terms, if at all. Some of the factors that will impact our ability to raise additional capital and our overall success include: the rate and degree of progress for our product development, the rate of regulatory approval to proceed with clinical trial programs, the level of success achieved in clinical trials, the requirements for marketing authorization from regulatory bodies in the United States and other countries, the liquidity and market volatility of our equity securities, regulatory and manufacturing requirements and uncertainties, technological developments by competitors, and other factors. If we cannot raise such funds, we will not be able to develop or enhance products, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, which would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of the need to raise additional capital and a net capital deficiency, there is uncertainty regarding our ability to maintain liquidity sufficient to operate our business effectively over at least the next twelve months, which raises substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. We were incorporated in 1989 and have experienced substantial operating losses since inception. As of December 31, 2012, we have incurred a cumulative net loss attributable to common shareholders totaling approximately $275,315,000 and we have continued to incur losses since that date. These losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in the research and development (including clinical trials) of our cell culture technologies and our cell manufacturing system, general and administrative expenses, and the prosecution of patent applications. We expect to continue to incur significant operating losses over the next several years and at least until, and probably after, product sales increase, primarily owing to our research and development programs, including preclinical studies and clinical trials, and the establishment of marketing and distribution capabilities necessary to support commercialization efforts for our products. We cannot predict with any certainty the amount of future losses. Our ability to achieve profitability will depend, among other things, on successfully completing the development of our product candidates, timely initiation and completion of clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, establishing manufacturing, sales and marketing arrangements with third parties, maintaining supplies of key manufacturing components, acquisition and development of complementary activities and raising sufficient cash to fund our operating activities. Therefore, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability. We may not be able to raise the required capital to conduct our operations and develop and commercialize our products. We will require substantial additional capital resources in order to conduct our operations, complete our product development programs, complete our clinical trials needed to market our products (including a Phase 3 clinical trial for CLI and a Phase 2b clinical trial for DCM), and commercialize these products and cell manufacturing facilities. In order to grow and expand our business, to introduce our new product candidates into the marketplace and to acquire or develop complementary business activities, we will need to raise a significant amount of additional funds. We will also need significant additional funds or a collaborative partner, or both, to finance the research and development activities of our cell product candidates for additional indications. Accordingly, we are continuing to pursue additional sources of financing. Our future capital requirements will depend upon many factors, including: · continued scientific progress in our research, clinical and development programs; · costs and timing of conducting clinical trials and seeking regulatory approvals; 13 Table of Contents · competing technological and market developments; · avoiding infringement and misappropriation of third-party intellectual property; · obtaining valid and enforceable patents that give us a competitive advantage; · our ability to establish additional collaborative relationships; · our ability to effectively launch a commercial product; · the effect of commercialization activities and facility expansions, if and as required; and · complementary business acquisition or development opportunities. We entered into an At the Market Sales Agreement (ATM) on June 16, 2011, which allows us to raise approximately $20,000,000 through sales of our common stock from time to time. However, there are certain factors, such as volume of trading in our stock, our stock price and the ability to terminate the agreement with notice, which limit the amount that can be raised in a short period of time through the ATM. Regardless of the usage of the ATM, we need to raise additional capital in order to fund the clinical trials of ixmyelocel-T for CLI and DCM, complete our product development programs, complete clinical trials needed to market our products and commercialize these products. We will need to raise additional funds in order to complete our product development programs, complete clinical trials needed to market our products (including clinical trials for our CLI and DCM programs), and commercialize these products. Because of our long-term funding requirements, we may try to access the public or private equity markets if conditions are favorable to complete a financing, even if we do not have an immediate need for additional capital at that time, or whenever we require additional operating capital. In addition, we may seek collaborative relationships, incur debt and access other available funding sources. This additional funding may not be available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. Some of the factors that will impact our ability to raise additional capital and our overall success include: · the rate and degree of progress for our product development; · the rate of regulatory approval to proceed with clinical trial programs; · the level of success achieved in clinical trials; · the requirements for marketing authorization from regulatory bodies in the United States and other countries; · the liquidity and market volatility of our equity securities; and · regulatory and manufacturing requirements and uncertainties, technological developments by competitors. If adequate funds are not available in the future, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements and we may be required to delay or terminate research and development programs, curtail capital expenditures, and reduce business development and other operating activities. Should the financing we require to sustain our working capital needs be unavailable or prohibitively expensive when we require it, the consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. Failure to obtain and maintain required regulatory approvals would severely limit our ability to sell our products. We must obtain the approval of the FDA before commercial sales of our cell product candidates may commence in the United States, which we believe will ultimately be the largest market for our products. We will also be required to obtain additional approvals from various foreign regulatory authorities to initiate sales activities of cell products in those jurisdictions. If we cannot demonstrate the safety, purity and potency of our product candidates, including our cell product candidates, produced in our production system, the FDA or other regulatory authorities could delay or withhold regulatory approval of our product candidates. Finally, even if we obtain regulatory approval of a product, that approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which it may be marketed. Even after granting regulatory approval, the FDA and regulatory agencies in other countries continue to review and inspect marketed products, manufacturers and manufacturing facilities, which may create additional regulatory burdens. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the product or manufacturer, including a 14 Table of Contents withdrawal of the product from the market. Further, regulatory agencies may establish additional regulations that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our products. Our product development programs are based on novel technologies and are inherently risky. We are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of products based on new technologies. The novel nature of our therapeutics creates significant challenges in regard to product development and optimization, manufacturing, government regulation, third party reimbursement and market acceptance. For example, if regulatory agencies have limited experience in approving cellular therapies for commercialization, the development and commercialization pathway for our therapies may be subject to increased uncertainty, as compared to the pathway for new conventional drugs. Any changes in the governmental regulatory classifications of our products could prevent, limit or delay our ability to market or develop our products. The FDA establishes regulatory requirements based on the classification of a product. Because our product development programs are designed to satisfy the standards applicable to biological licensure for our cellular products, any change in the regulatory classification or designation would affect our ability to obtain FDA approval of our products. Each of these cell products is, under current regulations, regulated as a biologic, which requires a BLA. Our inability to complete our product development activities successfully would severely limit our ability to operate or finance operations. In order to commercialize our cell product candidates in the United States, we must complete substantial clinical trials and obtain sufficient safety, purity and potency results to support required registration approval and market acceptance of our cell product candidates. We may not be able to successfully complete the development of our product candidates, or successfully market our technologies or product candidates. We, and any of our potential collaborators, may encounter problems and delays relating to research and development, regulatory approval and intellectual property rights of our technologies and product candidates. Our research and development programs may not be successful, and our cell culture technologies and product candidates may not facilitate the production of cells outside the human body with the expected results. Our technologies and cell product candidates may not prove to be safe and efficacious in clinical trials, and we may not obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for our technologies or product candidates and the cells produced in such products. If any of these events occur, we may not have adequate resources to continue operations for the period required to resolve any issues delaying commercialization and we may not be able to raise capital to finance our continued operation during the period required for resolution of any such issues. We must successfully complete our clinical trials to be able to market certain of our products. To be able to market therapeutic cell products in the United States, we must demonstrate, through extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials, the safety and efficacy of our processes and product candidates. If our clinical trials are not successful, our products may not be marketable. The results of early stage clinical trials do not ensure success in later clinical trials, and interim results are not necessarily predictive of final results. Our ability to complete our clinical trials in a timely manner depends on many factors, including the rate of patient enrollment. Patient enrollment can vary with the size of the patient population, the proximity of suitable patients to clinical sites, perceptions of the utility of cell therapy for the treatment of certain diseases, and the eligibility criteria for the study. For example, patients enrolling in our studies need to provide an adequate amount of bone marrow to process and expand for injection and some patients may not be able to provide sufficient starting material despite our study inclusion and exclusion criteria designed to prevent this. Bone marrow is an inherently variable starting material. We have experienced delays in patient accrual in our previous clinical trials. If we experience future delays in patient enrollment, we could experience increased costs and delays associated with clinical trials, which would impair our product development programs and our ability to market our products. Furthermore, the FDA monitors the progress of clinical trials and it may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time due to patient safety or other considerations. Our research programs are currently directed at improving product functionality for certain clinical indications, improving product shelf life, and decreasing the cost of manufacturing our products. These production process changes may alter the functionality of our cells and require various additional levels of experimental and clinical testing and evaluation. Any such testing could lengthen the time before these products would be commercially available. 15 Table of Contents Even if successful clinical results are reported for a product from a completed clinical trial, this does not mean that the results will be sustained over time, or will be sufficient for a marketable or regulatory approvable product. We will rely on third parties to conduct some of our clinical trials, and their failure to perform their obligations in a timely or competent manner may delay development and commercialization of our product candidates. We have engaged and we may use clinical research organizations (CRO) to assist in conduct of our clinical trials. There are numerous alternative sources to provide these services. However, we may face delays outside of our control if these parties do not perform their obligations in a timely or competent fashion or if we are forced to change service providers. Any third party that we hire to conduct clinical trials may also provide services to our competitors, which could compromise the performance of their obligations to us. If we experience significant delays in the progress of our clinical trials, the commercial prospects for product candidates could be harmed and our ability to generate product revenue would be delayed or prevented. In addition, we and any provider that we retain will be subject to Good Clinical Practice, or GCP requirements. If GCP and other regulatory requirements are not adhered to by us or our third-party providers, the development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed. Any failure of such CRO to successfully accomplish clinical trial monitoring, data collection, safety monitoring and data management and the other services it provides for us in a timely manner and in compliance with regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our ability to complete clinical development of our products and obtain regulatory approval. Problems with the timeliness or quality of the work of a CRO may lead us to seek to terminate the relationship and use an alternate service provider. However, making such changes may be costly and may delay our trials, and contractual restrictions may make such a change difficult or impossible. Additionally, it may be difficult to find a replacement organization that can conduct our trials in an acceptable manner and at an acceptable cost. Failure of third parties, including Vention Medical, to manufacture or supply certain components, equipment, disposable devices and other materials used in our cell manufacturing process would impair our cell product development. We rely on third parties, including Vention Medical (Vention), to manufacture and/or supply certain of our devices/manufacturing equipment and to manufacture and/or supply certain components, equipment, disposable devices and other materials used in our cell manufacturing process to develop our cell products. Vention is our sole supplier of cell cassettes for which it would be difficult to obtain alternate sources of supply on a short-term basis. If any of our manufacturers or suppliers fails to perform their respective obligations, or if our supply of certain components, equipment, disposable devices and other materials is limited or interrupted, it could impair our ability to manufacture our products, which would delay our ability to conduct our clinical trials or market our product candidates on a timely and cost-competitive basis, if at all. In addition, we may not be able to continue our present arrangements with our suppliers, supplement existing relationships, establish new relationships or be able to identify and obtain the ancillary materials that are necessary to develop our product candidates in the future. Our dependence upon third parties for the supply and manufacture of these items could adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver commercially feasible products on a timely and competitive basis. Manufacturing of our cell products in centralized facilities may increase the risk that we will not have adequate quantities of our cell products for clinical programs. We are subject to regulatory compliance and quality assurance requirements at our production site in Ann Arbor, Michigan. This site could be subject to ongoing, periodic, unannounced inspection by regulatory agencies to ensure strict compliance with GMP regulations and other governmental regulations. We do not have redundant cell manufacturing sites. In the event our cell production facility is damaged or destroyed or is subject to regulatory restrictions, our clinical trial programs and other business prospects would be adversely affected. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals to sell our products, lack of commercial acceptance could impair our business. We will be seeking to obtain regulatory approvals to market our cell products for tissue repair treatments. Even if we obtain all required regulatory approvals, we cannot be certain that our products and processes will be accepted in the marketplace at a level that would allow us to operate profitably. Our products may be unable to achieve commercial acceptance for a number of reasons, such as the availability of alternatives that are less expensive, more effective, or easier to use; the perception of a low cost-benefit ratio for the product amongst physicians and hospitals; or an inadequate level of product support from ourselves or a commercial partner. Our technologies or product candidates may not be employed in all potential applications being investigated, and any reduction in applications would limit the market acceptance of our technologies and product candidates, and our potential revenues. 16 Table of Contents The market for our products will be heavily dependent on third party reimbursement policies. Our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates will depend on the extent to which government healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, as well as private health insurers, health maintenance organizations and other third party payers will pay for our products and related treatments. Reimbursement by third party payers depends on a number of factors, including the payer’s determination that use of the product is safe and effective, not experimental or investigational, medically necessary, appropriate for the specific patient and cost-effective. Reimbursement in the United States or foreign countries may not be available or maintained for any of our product candidates. If we do not obtain approvals for adequate third party reimbursements, we may not be able to establish or maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. Any limits on reimbursement from third party payers may reduce the demand for, or negatively affect the price of, our products. For example, in the past, published studies suggested that stem cell transplantation for breast cancer, which constituted a significant portion of the overall stem cell therapy market at the time, may have limited clinical benefit. The lack of reimbursement for these procedures by insurance payers has negatively affected the market for our products in this indication in the past. Managing and reducing health care costs has been a general concern of federal and state governments in the United States and of foreign governments. In addition, third party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services, and many limit reimbursement for newly approved health care products. In particular, third party payers may limit the indications for which they will reimburse patients who use any products that we may develop. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price for products that we may develop, which would result in lower product revenues to us. Use of animal-derived materials could harm our product development and commercialization efforts. Some of the manufacturing materials and/or components we use in, and are critical to, implementation of our technology involve the use of animal-derived products, including fetal bovine serum. Suppliers or regulatory changes may limit or restrict the availability of such materials for clinical and commercial use. We currently purchase all of our fetal bovine sera from protected herds in Australia and New Zealand. These sources are considered to be the safest and raise the least amount of concern from the global regulatory agencies. If, for example, the so-called “mad cow disease” occurs in New Zealand or in Australia, it may lead to a restricted supply of the serum currently required for our product manufacturing processes. Any restrictions on these materials would impose a potential competitive disadvantage for our products or prevent our ability to manufacture our cell products. The FDA has issued draft regulations for controls over bovine materials. These proposed regulations do not appear to affect our ability to purchase the manufacturing materials we currently use. However, the FDA may issue final regulations that could affect our operations. Our inability to develop or obtain alternative compounds would harm our product development and commercialization efforts. There are certain limitations in the supply of certain animal-derived materials, which may lead to delays in our ability to complete clinical trials or eventually to meet the anticipated market demand for our cell products. Given our limited internal manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, we need to develop increased internal capability or collaborative relationships to manufacture, sell, market and distribute our products. We have only limited internal manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. As market needs develop, we intend to establish and operate commercial-scale manufacturing facilities, which will need to comply with all applicable regulatory requirements. We will also need to develop new configurations of our cell manufacturing system for these facilities to enable processes and cost efficiencies associated with large-scale manufacturing. Establishing these facilities will require significant capital and expertise. We may need to make such expenditures when there are significant uncertainties as to the market opportunity. Any delay in establishing, or difficulties in operating, these facilities will limit our ability to meet the anticipated market demand for our cell products. We intend to get assistance to market some of our future cell products through collaborative relationships with companies with established sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. Our inability to develop and maintain those relationships would limit our ability to market, sell and distribute our products. Our inability to enter into successful, long-term relationships could require us to develop alternate arrangements at a time when we need sales, marketing or distribution capabilities to meet existing demand. We may market one or more of our products through our own sales force. Our inability to develop and retain a qualified sales force could limit our ability to market, sell and distribute our cell products. If we do not keep pace with our competitors and with technological and market changes, our products will become obsolete and our business may suffer. The markets for our products are very competitive, subject to rapid technological changes, and vary for different candidates and processes that directly compete with our products. Our competitors may have developed, or could in the future develop, new technologies that compete with our products or even render our products obsolete. As an example, in the past, published studies have suggested that hematopoietic stem cell therapy use for bone marrow transplantation, following marrow ablation due to chemotherapy, may have limited clinical benefit in the treatment of breast cancer, which was a significant portion of the overall hematopoietic stem cell transplant market. This resulted in the practical elimination of this market for our cell-based product for this application. 17 Table of Contents Our cell manufacturing system is designed to improve and automate the processes for producing cells used in therapeutic procedures. Even if we are able to demonstrate improved or equivalent results, the cost or process of treatment and other factors may cause researchers and practitioners to not use our products and we could suffer a competitive disadvantage. Finally, to the extent that others develop new technologies that address the targeted application for our products, our business will suffer. The current credit and financial market conditions may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business. We rely upon third parties for certain aspects of our business, including collaboration partners, wholesale distributors, contract clinical trial providers, contract manufacturers and third-party suppliers. Because of the recent tightening of global credit and the volatility in the financial markets, there may be a delay or disruption in the performance or satisfaction of commitments to us by these third parties, which could adversely affect our business. If we cannot attract and retain key personnel, our business may suffer. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific and management personnel. We face competition for such personnel from other companies, research and academic institutions and other entities. Further, in an effort to conserve financial resources, we have implemented reductions in our work force on three previous occasions, most recently in fiscal 2008. As a result of these and other factors, we may not be successful in hiring or retaining key personnel. Our inability to replace any key employee could harm our operations. Risks Related to Intellectual Property If our patents and proprietary rights do not provide substantial protection, then our business and competitive position will suffer. Our success depends in large part on our ability to develop or license intellectual property rights to protect our proprietary products and technologies. This involves complex legal, scientific, and factual questions and uncertainties. We rely upon patent, trade secret, copyright and contract laws to protect proprietary technology and trademark law to protect brand identities. However, we cannot assure you that any patent applications filed by, assigned to, or licensed to us will be granted, and that the scope of any of our issued or licensed patents will be sufficiently broad to offer meaningful protection. In addition, our issued patents or patents licensed to us could be successfully challenged, invalidated, held to be unenforceable, or circumvented so that our patent rights would not create an effective competitive barrier. We also cannot assure you that the inventors of the patents and applications that we own or license were the first to invent or the first to file on the inventions, or that a third party will not claim ownership in one of our patents or patent applications. We cannot assure you that a third party does not have or will not obtain patents that dominate the patents we own or license now or in the future. Furthermore, we rely on exclusive, world-wide licenses relating to the production of human cells granted to us by the University of Michigan. If we materially breach such agreements or otherwise fail to materially comply with such agreements, or if such agreements expire or are otherwise terminated by us, we may lose our rights under the patents held by the University of Michigan. At the latest, each of these licenses will terminate when the patent underlying the license expires, with the last to expire during the third quarter of 2013. Once the patents expire, third parties may be able to practice the inventions covered by those patents and thus compete with us. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the biotechnology field is evolving and our patent rights in this country and abroad are subject to this uncertainty. We also rely on trade secrets and un-patentable know-how that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, suppliers and licensees. These agreements may be breached, and we might not have adequate remedies for any breach. Our competitors may also independently develop technologies substantially equivalent or superior to ours. If this were to occur, our business and competitive position would suffer. Intellectual property litigation could harm our business. Our success will also depend in part on our ability to develop commercially viable products without infringing the proprietary rights of others. Our cell processing system and cell compositions utilize a wide variety of technologies and we can give no assurance that we have identified or can identify all inventions and patents that may be infringed by development and manufacture of our cell compositions. Although we have not been subject to any filed infringement claims, patents could exist or could be filed which would prohibit or limit our ability to market our products or maintain our competitive position. In the event of an intellectual property dispute, we may be forced to litigate. Such litigation is typically protracted and the results are unpredictable. Intellectual property litigation would divert management’s attention from developing our products and would force us to incur substantial costs regardless of whether we are successful. An adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties including treble damages and the opposing party’s attorney fees, and force us to pay significant license fees and royalties or cease the development and sale of our products and processes. 18 Table of Contents We have hired and will continue to hire individuals who have experience in cell culture and cell based therapeutics and may have confidential trade secret or proprietary information of third parties. We caution these individuals not to use or reveal this third-party information, but we cannot assure you that these individuals will not use or reveal this third-party information. Thus, we could be sued for misappropriation of proprietary information and trade secrets. Such claims are expensive to defend and could divert our attention and could result in substantial damage awards and injunctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or other proprietary rights, which would be expensive and, if unsuccessful, may cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights. To protect or enforce our patent rights, it may be necessary for us to initiate patent litigation proceedings against third parties, such as infringement suits or interference proceedings. These lawsuits would be expensive, take significant time and would divert management’s attention from other business concerns. These lawsuits could put our patents at risk of being invalidated, held unenforceable, or interpreted narrowly, and our patent applications at risk of not being issued. Further, these lawsuits may provoke the defendants to assert claims against us. The patent position of biotechnology firms is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions and recently has been the subject of much litigation. We cannot assure you that we will prevail in any of such suits or proceedings or that the damages or other remedies awarded to us, if any, will be commercially valuable. The government maintains certain rights in technology that we develop using government grant money and we may lose the revenues from such technology if we do not commercialize and utilize the technology pursuant to established government guidelines. Certain of our and our licensors’ research have been or are being funded in part by government grants. As a result of such funding, the U.S. Government has established guidelines and has certain rights in the technology developed with the grant. These rights include a non-exclusive, fully paid-up, worldwide license under such inventions for any governmental purpose. In addition, the U.S. Government has the right to require us to grant an exclusive license under any of such inventions to a third party if the U.S. Government determines that: (i) adequate steps have not been taken to commercialize such inventions; (ii) such action is necessary to meet public health or safety needs; or (iii) such action is necessary to meet requirements for public use under federal regulations. Additionally, under the federal Bayh Dole Act, a party which acquires an exclusive license for an invention that was partially funded by a federal research grant is subject to the following government rights: (i) products using the invention which are sold in the United States are to be manufactured substantially in the United States, unless a waiver is obtained; (ii) the government may force the granting of a license to a third party who will make and sell the needed product if the licensee does not pursue reasonable commercialization of a needed product using the invention; and (iii) the U.S. Government may use the invention for its own needs. If we fail to meet these guidelines, we would lose our exclusive rights to these products, and we would lose potential revenue derived from the sale of these products. Potential product liability claims could affect our earnings and financial condition. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the manufacture and/or use of our products during clinical trials, or after commercialization, results in adverse events. As a result, we may incur significant product liability exposure, which could exceed existing insurance coverage. We may not be able to maintain adequate levels of insurance at reasonable cost and/or reasonable terms. Excessive insurance costs or uninsured claims would increase our operating loss and adversely affect our financial condition. Risks Related to an Investment in our Common Stock We may be unable to continue as a going concern in which case our securities will have little or no value. We need to raise additional capital and have a net capital deficiency. This raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In the event we are not able to continue operations you will likely suffer a complete loss of your investment in our securities. Our stock price has been volatile and future sales of substantial numbers of our shares could have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares. The market price of shares of our common stock has been volatile, ranging in closing price between $1.15 and $2.64 during the period ended December 31, 2012. The price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as: · clinical trial results; · the amount of our cash resources and our ability to obtain additional funding; · announcements of research activities, business developments, technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; · entering into or terminating strategic relationships; 19 Table of Contents · regulatory developments in both the United States and abroad; · disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights; · changes in our revenues or expense levels; · public concern regarding the safety, efficacy or other aspects of the products or methodologies we are developing; · news or reports from other stem cell, cell therapy or regenerative medicine companies; · reports by securities analysts; · status of the investment markets; · concerns related to management transitions; and · delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market. Any of these events may cause the price of our shares to fall, which may adversely affect our business and financing opportunities. In addition, the stock market in general and the market prices for biotechnology companies in particular have experienced significant volatility recently that often has been unrelated to the operating performance or financial conditions of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance or prospects. The sale of our common stock through future equity offerings may cause dilution and could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We have registered $100,000,000 of securities for public sale pursuant to our registration statement on Form S-3 declared effective in July 2011. In addition, we registered $75,000,000 of securities for public sale pursuant to our registration statement on Form S-3 filed in November 2010. In December 2010, we offered 10,000,000 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase up to 10,000,000 shares of common stock under such registration statement and pursuant to a prospectus supplement first made available on December 10, 2010. Additionally, we entered into an At the Market Sales Agreement (ATM) on June 16, 2011, which allows us to raise approximately $20,000,000 through sales of our common stock from time to time under such registration statement. However, there are certain factors, such as volume of trading in our stock, our stock price and the ability to terminate the agreement with notice, which limit the amount that can be raised in a short period of time through the ATM. Sales of our common stock offered through future equity offerings may result in substantial dilution to the interests of other holders of our common stock. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock to investors, or anticipation of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales. Eastern Capital Limited, holds a large percentage of our outstanding capital stock and has significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval; and such shareholder’s priorities for our business may be different from other shareholders. All of the accumulated dividends in B-1 non-voting preferred stock and outstanding Series B-2 voting preferred stock, representing a significant amount of our outstanding capital stock on a fully-converted basis, are held by Eastern Capital Limited. The accumulated dividends in our B-1 non-voting preferred stock are exchangeable for shares of Series B-2 voting preferred stock and, in March 2017, are convertible into shares of our common stock. Based solely on the number of shares of Series B-2 Preferred Stock that Eastern Capital holds as of the date of this report, Eastern Capital has beneficial ownership of approximately twenty-two percent (22%) (calculated on an as converted to common stock basis and excluding any shares that will accrue as a dividend on the shares of Series B-2 Preferred) of our voting securities based on the approximately fifty-six million shares of common stock and Series B-2 Preferred Stock outstanding as of the date of this report. Furthermore, in connection with the March 2012 financing, we amended our Shareholder Rights Plan to allow Eastern Capital to acquire beneficial ownership of up to 49.9% of the Company’s outstanding securities without being deemed an “Acquiring Person” for purposes of our Shareholder Rights Plan. As a result of their current ownership and their ability to acquire more of our securities, they will be able to significantly influence the outcome of any financing transaction or other matter submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transaction. The interests of Eastern Capital may differ from the interests of our other shareholders. For example, Eastern Capital could delay 20 Table of Contents or prevent a change of control of Aastrom even if such a change of control would benefit Aastrom’s other shareholders. The significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of Aastrom’s common stock due to our investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. In addition, the shares of Series B-1 Preferred Stock and the shares of Series B-2 Preferred Stock which may be issued upon exchange of the shares of Series B-1 Preferred Stock have certain rights, preferences and privileges that rank senior to the shares of our common stock. For example, the shares of Series B-1 Preferred Stock and Series B-2 Preferred Stock are entitled to receive a liquidation preference prior to any payment being made to holders of common stock upon a voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, or we experience a change of control. Furthermore, if the shares of Series B-1 Preferred Stock are never exchanged for shares of Series B-2 Preferred Stock and/or converted into shares of our common stock, at any time after March 2017, we may be required to redeem the then outstanding shares of Series B-1 Preferred Stock and any dividend shares accrued thereon at a price equal to the greater of (A) $3,250 (subject to adjustments for stock splits and similar events) plus all accrued dividends and (B) the then fair market value of a share of common stock multiplied by the number of shares of common stock into which such share of Series B-1 Preferred Stock is then convertible. Such redemption would be completed in three annual installments beginning not more than 120 days after we receive a request for redemption. The requirement for us to redeem Eastern Capital’s shares of Series B-1 Preferred Stock in cash could diminish our working capital, the consequences of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. Our corporate documents and Michigan law contain provisions that may make it more difficult for us to be acquired. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without shareholder approval, to issue additional shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of these shares without any further vote or action by our shareholders. Michigan law contains a provision that makes it more difficult for a 10% shareholder, or its officers, to acquire a company. This authority, together with certain provisions of our charter documents, may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of our company. This effect could occur even if our shareholders consider the change in control to be in their best interest. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan, the purpose of which is, among other things, to enhance our Board’s ability to protect shareholder interests and to ensure that shareholders receive fair treatment in the event any coercive takeover attempt of our company is made in the future. The shareholder rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or could discourage a third party from acquiring, our company or a large block of our company’s common stock. Forward-looking statements This report, including the documents that we incorporate by reference, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act. Any statements about our expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions or future events or performance are not historical facts and may be forward-looking. These statements are often, but are not always, made through the use of words or phrases such as “anticipates,” “estimates,” “plans,” “projects,” “trends,” “opportunity,” “comfortable,” “current,” “intention,” “position,” “assume,” “potential,” “outlook,” “remain,” “continue,” “maintain,” “sustain,” “seek,” “achieve,” “continuing,” “ongoing,” “expects,” “management believes,” “we believe,” “we intend” and similar words or phrases, or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “would,” “should,” “could,” “may,” or similar expressions. Accordingly, these statements involve estimates, assumptions and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in them. Any forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors discussed throughout this report, and in particular those factors listed under the section “Risk Factors.” Because the factors referred to in the preceding paragraph could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements we make, you should not place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. Further, any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement or statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict which factors will arise. In addition, we cannot assess the impact of each factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include statements regarding: · potential strategic collaborations with others; · future capital needs; · adequacy of existing capital to support operations for a specified time; · product development and marketing plans; · features and successes of our cellular therapies; 21 Table of Contents · manufacturing and facility capabilities; · clinical trial plans and anticipated results, including the publication thereof; · anticipation of future losses; · replacement of manufacturing sources; · commercialization plans; or · revenue expectations and operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 