ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business exposes us to certain risks. The following is a discussion of what we currently believe are the most significant risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, financial condition and future results. Economic downturns in the market areas we serve or a rapidly increasing interest rate environment could increase our credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Our lending activities are our largest source of credit risk, which is the risk that a borrower will fail to meet their obligations in accordance with agreed terms. We manage credit risk inherent in our loan portfolio through the establishment of sound underwriting policies and procedures. We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses as well as an allowance for unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit to absorb anticipated future losses. Although we consider our allowance for loan and lease losses and allowance for unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit to be adequate at December 31, 2005, a significant downturn in the economy could result in higher commercial real estate vacancy rates which could negatively impact our borrowers’ ability to repay their obligations to us. A substantial portion of the loans in our portfolio are variable rate. A rapidly increasing interest rate environment could impair our borrower’s ability to service the interest portion of their obligations to us. This could result in decreased net income from increased provisions to the allowance for loan and lease losses as well as decreased interest income resulting from an increase in nonaccrual loans. For additional discussion see “Risk Elements” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this report. A rapid change in interest rates could negatively impact net interest income. We are exposed to interest rate risk, which is the risk that changes in prevailing interest rates will adversely affect assets, liabilities, capital, income and expenses at different times or in different amounts. Although we utilize a number of measures to monitor and manage interest rate risk, such as income simulations and interest sensitivity (gap) analyses, a number of factors that impact interest rates are beyond our control such as general economic conditions as well as governmental and regulatory policies. The impact of rate changes to our net interest income is determined by the amount of change and the time horizon that change occurs over. For additional discussion see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” of this report. Competition We face significant competition from other financial institutions for loans and deposits and from non-banking companies such as brokerage and insurance companies. We believe the most significant competitive factor is customer service, in addition to interest rates offered on loans and paid on deposits, fee structures, branch locations, hours of operations, and the range of banking services and products offered. Our ability to differentiate our service from that of our competitors is reliant upon the attraction and retention of key management and personnel across all our business lines. Failure to maintain our service culture could increase the susceptibility of our customer base to our competitors marketing campaigns and thwart our efforts to expand our existing customer base. For additional discussion see “Competition” in “Item 1. Business” of this report. Our business could be harmed if we lost the services of our senior management team. We believe that our success to date and our prospects for success in the future are substantially dependent on our senior management team presented in the “Company Management” section of “Item 1. Business” of this report. The loss of the services of any of these persons could have an adverse effect on our business. 11 Table of Contents There are restrictions on changes in control of the Company that could decrease our shareholders’ chance to realize a premium on their shares. As a Washington state corporation, we are subject to various provisions of the Washington Business Corporation Act that impose restrictions on certain takeover offers and business combinations, such as combinations with interested shareholders and share repurchases from certain shareholders. Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation containing fairness provisions could have the effect of hindering, delaying or preventing a takeover bid. These provisions may inhibit takeover bids and could decrease the chance of shareholders realizing a premium over market price for their shares as a result of the takeover bid. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 