Risk Factors Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and trading price of our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not known to us or that we do not consider to be material at this time. If the events described in these risks occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would likely suffer. Our past losses and expected future losses cast doubt on our ability to operate profitably. We were incorporated in 1989 and have experienced substantial operating losses since inception. As of June 30, 2009, we have incurred a cumulative net loss totaling approximately $195 million, and we have continued to incur losses since that date. These losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in the research and development (including clinical trials) of our cell culture technologies and our cell manufacturing system, general and administrative expenses, and the prosecution of patent applications. We expect to continue to incur significant operating losses over the next several years and at least until, and probably after, product sales increase, primarily owing to our research and development programs, including preclinical studies and clinical trials, and the establishment of marketing and distribution capabilities necessary to support commercialization efforts for our products. We cannot predict with any certainty the amount of future losses. Our ability to achieve profitability will depend, among other things, on successfully completing the development of our product candidates, timely initiation and completion of clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, establishing manufacturing, sales and marketing arrangements with third parties, maintaining supplies of key manufacturing components, acquisition and development of complementary activities and raising sufficient cash to fund our operating activities. Therefore, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability. The global economy and capital markets are challenging for the small cap biotech sector. This situation makes the timing and potential for future equity financings uncertain. Our stock may be delisted from NASDAQ, which could affect its market price and liquidity. We are required to meet certain qualitative and financial tests (including a minimum bid price for our common stock of $1.00 per share) to maintain the listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market. On July 13, 2009, we received notification from the Listings Qualifications Department of NASDAQ that further suspended enforcement of the rules requiring a minimum $1.00 per share closing bid price and a minimum market value of publicly held shares until July 31, 2009. As a result of NASDAQ further extending the suspension and the balance of 60 days remaining on our pending compliance period at the time of the initial suspension, we now have until October 1, 2009 to regain compliance with the $1.00 minimum closing bid price rule in order to remain listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. We can regain compliance with the minimum closing bid price rule if the bid price of our common stock closes at $1.00 per share or higher for a minimum of ten consecutive business days during the 180-day compliance period, although NASDAQ may, in its discretion, require us to maintain a minimum closing bid price of at least $1.00 per share for a period in excess of ten consecutive business days (but generally no more than 20 consecutive business days) before determining that we have demonstrated the ability to maintain long-term compliance. If we do not regain compliance during the further extended compliance period, NASDAQ will provide written notice that our securities will be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. At such time, we would be able to appeal the determination to a NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel by requesting an oral hearing. A request for a hearing allows us to remain listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market pending the decision of the NASDAQ Hearing Panel. In the event that our common stock is delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market there are alternative listing options, as follows: • We may be eligible for quotation on FINRA’s Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB) if a market maker makes an application to register and quote our common stock in accordance with SEC Rule 15c2-11, and such application, Form 211, is cleared. Only a market maker is able to file Form 211. • If we do not qualify for quotation on the OTCBB, we could apply to other unregulated markets. 18 Table of Contents We cannot provide any assurance that our stock price will recover within the permitted grace period. If our common stock were delisted, it could be more difficult to buy or sell our common stock and to obtain accurate quotations, and the price of our stock could suffer a material decline. Delisting may also impair our ability to raise capital. We may not be able to raise the required capital to conduct our operations and develop and commercialize our products. In addition to our current financing with Fusion Capital, we will require substantial additional capital resources in order to conduct our operations and develop and commercialize our products and cell manufacturing facilities. In order to grow and expand our business, to introduce our new product candidates into the marketplace and to acquire or develop complementary business activities, we will need to raise a significant amount of additional funds. We will also need significant additional funds or a collaborative partner, or both, to finance the research and development activities of our cell product candidates for additional indications. Accordingly, we are continuing to pursue additional sources of financing. Our future capital requirements will depend upon many factors, including: • continued scientific progress in our research, clinical and development programs; • costs and timing of conducting clinical trials and seeking regulatory approvals; • competing technological and market developments; • our ability to establish additional collaborative relationships; • the effect of commercialization activities and facility expansions, if and as required; and • complementary business acquisition or development opportunities. Because of our long-term funding requirements, we intend to try to access the public or private equity markets if conditions are favorable to complete a financing, even if we do not have an immediate need for additional capital at that time, or whenever we require additional operating capital. This additional funding may not be available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available in the future, we may be required to further delay or terminate research and development programs, curtail capital expenditures, and reduce business development and other operating activities. The transaction with Fusion Capital, described above under “Recent Financing”, may provide us with some of the required capital to conduct our operations; however, we expect that we will need additional capital. In addition, under certain conditions, Fusion will not be required to purchase our shares, including if the market price of our common stock is less than $0.10, if we are not listed on a national exchange or the OTC Bulletin Board or if there is a material adverse change to our business, properties, operations, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, in order to be in compliance with NASDAQ Capital Market rules, we cannot be required to sell, and Fusion Capital shall not have the right or the obligation to purchase, shares of our common stock at a price below $0.36, which represents the greater of the book value per share of our common stock as of March 31, 2009 or the closing sale price per share of our common stock on June 11, 2009, the business day before we entered into the Purchase Agreement, plus $0.01. If we elect to sell our shares of common stock to Fusion Capital at a price per share below $0.36, we may be required to obtain shareholder approval in order to be in compliance with the NASDAQ Capital Market rules. We only have the right to receive $100,000 every other business day under the Purchase Agreement unless our stock price equals or exceeds $0.25, in which case we can sell greater amounts to Fusion Capital as the price of our common stock increases. The extent to which we rely on Fusion Capital as a source of funding will depend on a number of factors including, the prevailing market price of our common stock and the extent to which we are able to secure working capital from other sources. Specifically, Fusion Capital shall not have the right nor the obligation to purchase any shares of our common stock on any business days that the market price of our common stock is less than $0.10. 19 Table of Contents Even if we are able to access the full $30.0 million under the Purchase Agreement with Fusion Capital, we will need additional capital to fully implement our business, operating and development plans. Should the financing we require to sustain our working capital needs be unavailable or prohibitively expensive when we require it, the consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. The sale of our common stock to Fusion Capital may cause dilution and the sale of the shares of common stock acquired by Fusion Capital could cause the price of our common stock to decline. In connection with entering into the Purchase Agreement, we authorized the sale to Fusion Capital of up to 36,000,000 shares of our common stock. The number of shares ultimately offered for sale by Fusion Capital is dependent upon the number of shares purchased by Fusion Capital under the Purchase Agreement. The purchase price for the common stock to be sold to Fusion Capital pursuant to the Purchase Agreement will fluctuate based on the price of our common stock. All 39,872,634 shares registered with the SEC are expected to be freely tradable. The registered shares may be sold over a period of up to 25 months from the commencement date of July 1, 2009. Depending upon market liquidity at the time, a sale of shares to Fusion Capital at any given time could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Fusion Capital may ultimately purchase all, or some of the 36,000,000 shares of common stock registered in the offering. After it has acquired such shares, it may sell all, some or none of such shares. Therefore, sales to Fusion Capital by us under the Purchase Agreement may result in substantial dilution to the interests of other holders of our common stock. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock to Fusion Capital, or anticipation of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales. However, we have the right to control the timing and amount of any sales of our shares to Fusion Capital and the Purchase Agreement may be terminated by us at any time at our discretion without any cost to us. If we cannot attract and retain key personnel, then our business will suffer. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific and management personnel. We face competition for such personnel from other companies, research and academic institutions and other entities. Further, in an effort to conserve financial resources, we have implemented reductions in our work force on three previous occasions. As a result of these and other factors, we may not be successful in hiring or retaining key personnel. Our inability to replace any key employee could harm our operations. On September 3, 2009, we announced that our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, George W. Dunbar, Jr., will be stepping down from those positions immediately after our annual meeting in December 2009. At that time, Mr. Dunbar will be succeeded in those positions by Timothy Mayleben, currently a director of the Company. In addition, in the future, we expect to hire other key personnel as circumstances and our financial resources allow. If we are unable to fill these positions, at such time, our operations could be harmed. Failure to obtain and maintain required regulatory approvals would severely limit our ability to sell our products. We must obtain the approval of the FDA before commercial sales of our cell product candidates may commence in the U.S., which we believe will ultimately be the largest market for our products. We will also be required to obtain additional approvals from various foreign regulatory authorities to initiate sales activities of cell products in those jurisdictions, including the EU under regulation of the EMEA. If we cannot demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our cell product candidates produced in our manufacturing system, we may not be able to obtain required regulatory approvals. If we cannot demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates produced in our manufacturing system, the FDA or other regulatory authorities could delay or withhold regulatory approval of our product candidates. Finally, even if we obtain regulatory approval of a product, that approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which it may be marketed. Even after granting regulatory approval, the FDA and regulatory agencies in other countries continue to review and inspect marketed products, manufacturers and manufacturing facilities, which may create additional regulatory burdens. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a 20 Table of Contents product, manufacturer or facility, may result in restrictions on the product or manufacturer, including a withdrawal of the product from the market. Further, regulatory agencies may establish additional regulations that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our products. Any changes in the governmental regulatory classifications of our products could prevent, limit or delay our ability to market or develop our products. The FDA establishes regulatory requirements based on the classification of a product. Because our product development programs are designed to satisfy the standards applicable to biological licensure for our cellular products, any change in the regulatory classification or designation would affect our ability to obtain FDA approval of our products. Each of these cell products (such as our TRC-based products) is, under current regulations, regulated as a biologic, which requires a Biologic License Application (BLA). EU Directives and regulations (laws) have become effective, and have influenced the requirements for manufacturing cell products and the conduct of clinical trials. For products that are regulated as an ATMP, the EU Directive requires: (i) preclinical laboratory and animal testing; (ii) submission of an IMPD to the Competent Authorities of the MS where the clinical trial will be conducted, which must be approved prior to the initiation of human clinical studies; (iii) adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the product for its intended use; (iv) submission to EMEA for an MA; and, (v) review and approval of the MA. Under the newly approved ATMP regulation for cellular products only the EMEA will be allowed to approve cell-based medicinal products (a “centralized” review of the submission) after December 31, 2008. The regulatory requirements to market somatic cellular and ATMP products have changed significantly with the approval of the EU ATMP regulation. Beginning January 1, 2008, a one year transition time was put into effect. After December 31, 2008, any product that is considered “tissue engineered” under the definitions provided in the ATMP regulation was granted a four year “grandfather” marketing allowance if that product has been on the market on or before the end of the transition period. Germany had not required marketing authorization to distribute cultured expanded autologous tissue products for tissue regeneration when the newly revised law became effective. We had introduced a product into the German market by that time and we may fall under the “grandfathered” regulations for some period of time before we would need to apply for a centralized marketing authorization. Our inability to complete our product development activities successfully would severely limit our ability to operate or finance operations. In order to commercialize our cell product candidates in the U.S. and the EU, we must complete substantial clinical trials, and obtain sufficient safety and efficacy results to support required registration approval and market acceptance of our cell product candidates. We may not be able to successfully complete the development of our product candidates, or successfully market our technologies or product candidates. We, and any of our potential collaborators, may encounter problems and delays relating to research and development, regulatory approval and intellectual property rights of our technologies and product candidates. Our research and development programs may not be successful, and our cell culture technologies and product candidates may not facilitate the production of cells outside the human body with the expected result. Our technologies and cell product candidates may not prove to be safe and efficacious in clinical trials, and we may not obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for our technologies or product candidates and the cells produced in such products. If any of these events occur, we may not have adequate resources to continue operations for the period required to resolve the issue delaying commercialization and we may not be able to raise capital to finance our continued operation during the period required for resolution of that issue. We must successfully complete our clinical trials to be able to market certain of our products. To be able to market therapeutic cell products in the U.S. and across the EU, we must demonstrate, through extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials, the safety and efficacy of our processes and product candidates. If our clinical trials are not successful, our products may not be marketable. 21 Table of Contents Our ability to complete our clinical trials in a timely manner depends on many factors, including the rate of patient enrollment. Patient enrollment can vary with the size of the patient population, the proximity of suitable patients to clinical sites, perceptions of the utility of cell therapy for the treatment of certain diseases, and the eligibility criteria for the study. We have experienced delays in patient accrual in our previous and current clinical trials. If we experience future delays in patient accrual, we could experience increased costs and delays associated with clinical trials, which would impair our product development programs and our ability to market our products. Furthermore, the FDA monitors the progress of clinical trials and it may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time due to patient safety or other considerations. Our research programs are currently directed at improving TRC-based product functionality for certain clinical indications, improving product shelf life, and decreasing the cost of manufacturing our TRC-based products. These production process changes may alter the functionality of our cells and require various additional levels of experimental and clinical testing and evaluation. Any such testing could lengthen the time before these products would be commercially available. Even if successful clinical results are reported for a product from a completed clinical trial, this does not mean that the results will be sustained over time, or will be sufficient for a marketable or regulatory approvable product. Failure of third parties to manufacture or supply certain components, equipment, disposable devices and other materials used our cell manufacturing process, would impair our TRC-based cell product development. We rely solely on third parties such as BioLife and Invitrogen to manufacture and/or supply certain components, equipment, disposable devices and other materials used our cell manufacturing process to develop our TRC-based cell products. It would be difficult to obtain alternate sources of supply for many of these items on a short-term basis. If any of our key manufacturers or suppliers fails to perform their respective obligations or if our supply of certain components, equipment, disposable devices and other materials is limited or interrupted, it would impair our ability to manufacture our TRC-based cell products which would delay our ability to conduct our clinical trials or market our product candidates on a timely and cost-competitive basis, if at all. Failure of third parties to manufacture component parts or provide limited source supplies, or the imposition of additional regulation, would impair our new product development. We rely solely on third parties such as Sparton (formerly Astro), Ethox, Moll, Lonza and Genpore to manufacture or supply certain of our devices/manufacturing equipment, as well as component parts and other materials used in the cell product manufacturing process. We would not be able to obtain alternate sources of supply for many of these items on a short-term basis. If any of our key manufacturers or suppliers fails to perform their respective obligations or if our supply of components or other materials is limited or interrupted, we would not be able to conduct clinical trials or market our product candidates on a timely and cost-competitive basis, if at all. Finally, we may not be able to continue our present arrangements with our suppliers, supplement existing relationships, establish new relationships or be able to identify and obtain the ancillary materials that are necessary to develop our product candidates in the future. Our dependence upon third parties for the supply and manufacture of these items could adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver commercially feasible products on a timely and competitive basis. Manufacturing our cell products in centralized facilities may increase the risk that we will not have adequate quantities of our cell products for clinical programs. We rely on third party manufacturers, Fraunhofer Institute for Interfacial Engineering and Biotechnology in Stuttgart, Germany and the Institute of Laboratory and Transfusion Medicine at the Heart Center in Bad Oeynhausen, Germany to supply our TRC-based cell products for certain EU clinical activities. Reliance on third party manufacturers entails risks including regulatory compliance and quality assurance and the possible breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party. We are subject to similar regulatory and compliance risks 22 Table of Contents at our site in Ann Arbor, Michigan. All sites could be subject to ongoing, periodic, unannounced inspection by regulatory agencies to ensure strict compliance with GMP regulations and other governmental regulations and corresponding foreign standards. Our present and future manufacturers might not be able to comply with these regulatory requirements. We do not have redundant cell manufacturing sites in the U.S. In the event our cell manufacturing facilities are damaged or destroyed or are subject to regulatory restrictions, our clinical trial programs and other business prospects would be adversely affected. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals to sell our products, lack of commercial acceptance could impair our business. We will be seeking to obtain regulatory approvals to market our TRC-based cell products for tissue repair and regeneration treatments. Even if we obtain all required regulatory approvals, we cannot be certain that our products and processes will be accepted in the marketplace at a level that would allow us to operate profitably. Our products may be unable to achieve commercial acceptance for a number of reasons, such as the availability of alternatives that are less expensive, more effective, or easier to use; the perception of a low cost-benefit ratio for the product amongst physicians and hospitals; or an inadequate level of product support from ourselves or a commercial partner. Our technologies or product candidates may not be employed in all potential applications being investigated, and any reduction in applications would limit the market acceptance of our technologies and product candidates, and our potential revenues. The market for our products will be heavily dependent on third party reimbursement policies. Our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates will depend on the extent to which government healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, as well as private health insurers, health maintenance organizations and other third party payors will pay for our products and related treatments. Reimbursement by third party payors depends on a number of factors, including the payor’s determination that use of the product is safe and effective, not experimental or investigational, medically necessary, appropriate for the specific patient and cost-effective. Reimbursement in the U.S. or foreign countries may not be available or maintained for any of our product candidates. If we do not obtain approvals for adequate third party reimbursements, we may not be able to establish or maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. Any limits on reimbursement from third party payors may reduce the demand for, or negatively affect the price of, our products. For example, in the past, published studies suggested that stem cell transplantation for breast cancer, which constituted a significant portion of the overall stem cell therapy market at the time, may have limited clinical benefit. The lack of reimbursement for these procedures by insurance payors has negatively affected the marketability of our products in this indication in the past. Use of animal-derived materials could harm our product development and commercialization efforts. Some of the manufacturing materials and/or components we use in, and are critical to, implementation of our TRC technology involve the use of animal-derived products, including fetal bovine serum. Suppliers or regulatory changes may limit or restrict the availability of such materials for clinical and commercial use. We currently purchase all of our fetal bovine sera from protected herds in Australia and New Zealand. These sources are considered to be the safest and raise the least amount of concern from the global regulatory agencies. If, for example, the so-called “mad cow disease” occurs in New Zealand or in Australia, it may lead to a restricted supply of the serum currently required for the TRC-based product manufacturing processes. Any restrictions on these materials would impose a potential competitive disadvantage for our products or prevent our ability to manufacture TRC-based cell products. Regulatory authorities in the EU are reviewing the safety issues related to the use of animal-derived materials, which we currently use in our production process. The FDA has issued draft regulations for controls over bovine materials. These proposed regulations do not appear to affect our ability to purchase the manufacturing materials we currently use. However, the FDA may issue final regulations that could affect our operations. We do not know what actions, if any, the authorities may take as to animal derived materials specific to medicinal products distributed in the EU. Our inability to develop or obtain alternative compounds would harm our product development and commercialization efforts. There are certain limitations in the supply of certain animal- 23 Table of Contents derived materials, which may lead to delays in our ability to complete clinical trials or eventually to meet the anticipated market demand for our cell products. Given our limited internal manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, we need to develop increased internal capability or collaborative relationships to manufacture, sell, market and distribute our products. We have only limited internal manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. As market needs develop, we intend to establish and operate commercial-scale manufacturing facilities, which will need to comply with all applicable regulatory requirements. We will also need to develop new configurations of our cell manufacturing system for these facilities to enable processes and cost efficiencies associated with large-scale manufacturing. Establishing these facilities will require significant capital and expertise. We may need to make such expenditures when there are significant uncertainties as to the market opportunity. Any delay in establishing, or difficulties in operating, these facilities will limit our ability to meet the anticipated market demand for our cell products. We intend to get assistance to market some of our future cell products through collaborative relationships with companies with established sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. Our inability to develop and maintain those relationships would limit our ability to market, sell and distribute our products. Our inability to enter into successful, long-term relationships could require us to develop alternate arrangements at a time when we need sales, marketing or distribution capabilities to meet existing demand. We may market one or more of our TRC-based products through our own sales force. Our inability to develop and retain a qualified sales force could limit our ability to market, sell and distribute our cell products. The issuance of additional common stock for funding has the potential for substantial dilution. As noted above, we will need significant additional equity funding, in addition to the transactions with Fusion Capital, to provide us with the capital to reach our objectives. We may enter into financing transactions at prices which are at a substantial discount to market. Such an equity issuance would cause a substantially larger number of shares to be outstanding and would dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. Our stock price has been volatile and future sales of substantial numbers of our shares could have an adverse affect on the market price of our shares. The market price of shares of our common stock has been volatile, ranging in closing price between $0.16 and $0.73 during the twelve month period ended June 30, 2009. The price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as: • clinical trial results • the amount of our cash resources and our ability to obtain additional funding • announcements of research activities, business developments, technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors • entering into or terminating strategic relationships • changes in government regulation • disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights • changes in our revenues or expense levels • public concern regarding the safety, efficacy or other aspects of the products or methodologies we are developing • news or reports from other stem cell, cell therapy or regenerative medicine companies • reports by securities analysts • status of the investment markets 24 Table of Contents • concerns related to management transitions • delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market Any of these events may cause the price of our shares to fall, which may adversely affect our business and financing opportunities. In addition, the stock market in general and the market prices for biotechnology companies in particular have experienced significant volatility recently that often has been unrelated to the operating performance or financial conditions of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance or prospects. If we do not keep pace with our competitors and with technological and market changes, our products will become obsolete and our business may suffer. The markets for our products are very competitive, subject to rapid technological changes, and vary for different candidates and processes that directly compete with our products. Our competitors may have developed, or could in the future develop, new technologies that compete with our products or even render our products obsolete. As an example, in the past, published studies have suggested that hematopoietic stem cell therapy use for bone marrow transplantation, following marrow ablation due to chemotherapy, may have limited clinical benefit in the treatment of breast cancer, which was a significant portion of the overall hematopoietic stem cell transplant market. This resulted in the practical elimination of this market for our cell-based product for this application. Our cell manufacturing system is designed to improve and automate the processes for producing cells used in therapeutic procedures. Even if we are able to demonstrate improved or equivalent results, the cost or process of treatment and other factors may cause researchers and practitioners to not use our products and we could suffer a competitive disadvantage. Finally, to the extent that others develop new technologies that address the targeted application for our products, our business will suffer. If our patents and proprietary rights do not provide substantial protection, then our business and competitive position will suffer. Our success depends in large part on our ability to develop or license and protect proprietary products and technologies. However, patents may not be granted on any of our pending or future patent applications. Also, the scope of any of our issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to offer meaningful protection. In addition, our issued patents or patents licensed to us could be successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented so that our patent rights would not create an effective competitive barrier. Certain patent equivalents to the U.S. patents have also been issued in other jurisdictions including Australia, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Canada and under the European Convention. Furthermore, we rely on exclusive, world-wide licenses relating to the production of human cells granted to us by the University of Michigan for certain of our patent rights. If we materially breach such agreements or otherwise fail to materially comply with such agreements, or if such agreements expire or are otherwise terminated by us, we may lose our rights under the patents held by the University of Michigan. At the latest, each of these licenses will terminate when the patent underlying the license expires. The first of these underlying patents will expire on March 21, 2012. We also rely on trade secrets and unpatentable know-how that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, suppliers and licensees. These agreements may be breached, and we might not have adequate remedies for any breach. If this were to occur, our business and competitive position would suffer. Intellectual property litigation could harm our business. Our success will also depend in part on our ability to develop commercially viable products without infringing the proprietary rights of others. Although we have not been subject to any filed infringement claims, other patents could exist or could be filed which would prohibit or limit our ability to market our products or maintain our competitive position. In the event of an intellectual property dispute, we may be forced to litigate. Intellectual property litigation would divert management’s attention from developing our products and would force us to incur substantial costs regardless of whether we are successful. An adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, and force us to curtail or cease the development and sale of our products and processes. 25 Table of Contents The government maintains certain rights in technology that we develop using government grant money and we may lose the revenues from such technology if we do not commercialize and utilize the technology pursuant to established government guidelines. Certain of our and our licensors’ research have been or are being funded in part by government grants. As a result of such funding, the U.S. Government has established guidelines and have certain rights in the technology developed with the grant. If we fail to meet these guidelines, we would lose our exclusive rights to these products, and we would lose potential revenue derived from the sale of these products. Potential product liability claims could affect our earnings and financial condition. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the manufacture and/or use of TRC-based products during clinical trials, or after commercialization, results in adverse events. As a result, we may incur significant product liability exposure, which could exceed existing insurance coverage. We may not be able to maintain adequate levels of insurance at reasonable cost and/or reasonable terms. Excessive insurance costs or uninsured claims would increase our operating loss and affect our financial condition. Our corporate documents and Michigan law contain provisions that may make it more difficult for us to be acquired. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without shareholder approval, to issue additional shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of these shares without any further vote or action by our shareholders. Michigan law contains a provision that makes it more difficult for a 10% shareholder, or its officers, to acquire a company. This authority, together with certain provisions of our charter documents, may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of our Company. This effect could occur even if our shareholders consider the change in control to be in their best interest. We are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and any adverse results from such evaluation could have a negative market reaction. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Section 404), we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. That report must contain, among other matters, an assessment of the design and operating effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of the fiscal year. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. That report must also contain a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on the design and operating effectiveness of our system of internal accounting controls over financial reporting. If in the future we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of the end of the then current fiscal year (or, if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an unqualified opinion on the design and operating effectiveness of our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have a negative effect on our stock price and our ability to raise capital. Forward-looking statements This report, including the documents that we incorporate by reference, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act. Any statements about our expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions or future events or performance are not historical facts and may be forward-looking. These statements are often, but are not always, made through the use of words or phrases such as “anticipates,” “estimates,” “plans,” “projects,” “trends,” “opportunity,” “comfortable,” “current,” “intention,” “position,” “assume,” “potential,” “outlook,” “remain,” “continue,” “maintain,” “sustain,” “seek,” “achieve,” “continuing,” “ongoing,” “expects,” “management believes,” “we believe,” “we intend” and similar words or phrases, or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “would,” “should,” “could,” “may,” or similar 26 Table of Contents expressions. Accordingly, these statements involve estimates, assumptions and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in them. Any forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors discussed throughout this report, and in particular those factors listed under the section “Risk Factors.” Because the factors referred to in the preceding paragraph could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements we make, you should not place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. Further, any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement or statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict which factors will arise. In addition, we cannot assess the impact of each factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include statements regarding: • potential strategic collaborations with others • future capital needs • adequacy of existing capital to support operations for a specified time • product development and marketing plan • clinical trial plans and anticipated results • anticipation of future losses • replacement of manufacturing sources • commercialization plans • revenue expectations and operating results Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 