ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business exposes us to certain risks. The following is a discussion of what we currently believe are the most significant risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, financial condition and future results. Economic downturns in the market areas we serve or a rapidly increasing interest rate environment could increase the credit risk within the loan portfolio. Lending activities are our largest source of credit risk, which is the risk that a borrower will fail to meet their obligations in accordance with agreed upon terms. We manage the credit risk inherent in our loan portfolio through the establishment of sound underwriting policies and procedures. We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses as well as an allowance for unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit to absorb anticipated future losses. Although we consider our allowance for loan and lease losses and allowance for unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit to be adequate at December 31, 2007, a significant downturn in the economy could result in higher delinquencies and defaults which would negatively impact our financial position. A substantial portion of the loans in our portfolio are variable rate. While recently we have been in a decreasing interest rate environment, a rapidly increasing interest rate environment or inability to access credit or other funding could impair our borrower’s ability to service the interest portion of their obligations to us. This could result in decreased net income from increased provisions to the allowance for loan and lease losses as well as decreased interest income resulting from an increase in nonaccrual loans. For additional discussion see “Risk Elements” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” of this report. A rapid change in interest rates could negatively impact net interest income. We are exposed to interest rate risk, which is the risk that changes in prevailing interest rates will adversely affect assets, liabilities, capital, income and expenses at different times or in different amounts. We utilize a number of measures to monitor and manage interest rate risk, such as income simulations and interest sensitivity (gap) analyses. A number of factors that impact interest rates are beyond our control such as general economic conditions as well as governmental and regulatory policies. The impact of rate changes to our net interest income is determined by the amount of change and the time horizon over which change occurs. For additional discussion see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” of this report. Competition. We face significant competition from other financial institutions for loans and deposits. We believe the most significant competitive factor is customer service, in addition to interest rates offered on loans and paid on deposits, fee structures, branch locations, and the range of banking services and products offered. Failure to maintain our service culture could increase the susceptibility of our customer base to our competitors marketing campaigns and thwart our efforts to expand our existing customer base. For additional discussion see “Competition” in “Item 1. Business” of this report. Failure to hire or retain management and staff could impede our ability to maintain or grow earnings. Maintaining our current customer base is reliant upon the retention of key management and personnel across all our business lines. We rely on these talented professionals to manage lines of business which are critical in the generation of operating revenue. In addition, the failure to attract new employees critical to the execution of our expansion plan could result in diminished returns on our investment in these initiatives. 14 Table of Contents The tightening of available liquidity could limit our ability to meet loan demand. Some of the markets from which we obtain our wholesale funding have experienced significant volatility and disruption since mid-2007. Additional uncertainty within these markets could limit our access to wholesale funding and impair our ability to grow our loan portfolio consistent with historical trends. Concentration in real estate loans. We have a high concentration of loans secured by real estate and a downturn in the real estate market, for any reason, could hurt our business and our prospects. Our business activities and credit exposure are concentrated in loans secured by real estate. A decline in the real estate market could hurt our business because the collateral securing those loans would decrease in value. A downturn in the local economy could have a material adverse effect both on a borrower’s ability to repay these loans, as well as the value of the real property held as collateral. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 