ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business exposes us to certain risks. The following is a discussion of what we currently believe are the most significant risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, financial condition and future results. A slow or fragile economic recovery could adversely affect our future results of operations or market price of our stock. The national economy and the financial services sector in particular are currently facing challenges of a scope unprecedented in recent history. We cannot accurately predict how quickly the economy will recover from the recent recession, which has adversely impacted the markets we serve. The U.S. economy has also experienced substantial volatility in the financial markets. Any further deterioration in the economies of the nation as a whole or in our markets would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and could also cause the market price of our stock to decline. While it is impossible to predict how long adverse economic conditions may exist, a slow or fragile recovery could continue to present risks for some time for the industry and our company. 14 Table of Contents Economic conditions in the market areas we serve may continue to adversely impact our earnings and could increase our credit risk associated with our loan portfolio and the value of our investment portfolio. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in Washington and Oregon, and a continuing decline in the economies of these market areas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. There has been a decline in housing prices and unemployment is a continued concern in both Washington and Oregon. A further deterioration in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have an adverse impact, which could be material, on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects: • commercial and consumer loan delinquencies may increase; • problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • collateral for loans made may decline further in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans; • certain securities within our investment portfolio could become other than temporarily impaired, requiring a write-down through earnings to fair value, thereby reducing equity; • low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease; and • demand for our loan and other products and services may decrease. Our loan portfolio mix, which has a concentration of loans secured by real estate, could result in increased credit risk in a challenging economy. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in commercial real estate and commercial business loans. These types of loans, as well as real estate construction loans and land development loans, acquisition and development loans related to the for-sale housing industry, generally are viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or certain other types of loans or investments. In fact, the FDIC has issued pronouncements alerting banks of its concern about heavy loan concentrations. Because our loan portfolio contains a significant number of construction, commercial business and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans may cause a significant increase in our non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses, or an increase in loan charge-offs, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. A further downturn in the economies or real estate values in the markets we serve could have a material adverse effect on both borrowers’ ability to repay their loans and the value of the real property securing such loans. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans would then be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Our Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses (“ALLL”) may not be adequate to cover future loan losses, which could continue to adversely affect earnings. We maintain an ALLL in an amount that we believe is adequate to provide for losses inherent in our portfolio. While we strive to carefully monitor credit quality and to identify loans that may become non-performing, at any time there are loans in the portfolio that could result in losses, but that have not been identified as non-performing or potential problem loans. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify deteriorating loans before they become non-performing assets, or that we will be able to limit losses on those loans that have been identified. Additionally, the process for determining the ALLL requires different, subjective and complex judgments about the future impact from current economic conditions that might impair the ability of borrowers to repay their loans. As a result, future significant increases to the ALLL may be necessary. Additionally, future increases to the ALLL may be required based on changes in the composition of the loans comprising the portfolio, deteriorating values in underlying collateral (most of which consists of real estate) and 15 Table of Contents changes in the financial condition of borrowers, such as may result from changes in economic conditions, or as a result of incorrect assumptions by management in determining the ALLL. Additionally, banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review our ALLL. These regulatory agencies may require us to increase the ALLL which could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Any increase in the ALLL would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our financial condition and results of operations. Nonperforming assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. Until economic and market conditions improve, we expect to continue to incur additional losses relating to elevated levels of nonperforming loans. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans, thereby adversely affecting our income, and increasing loan administration costs. When we receive collateral through foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related loan to the then fair market value of the collateral if the collateral less selling costs is lower than the carrying amount of the related loan, which may result in a loss. An increase in the level of nonperforming assets also increases our risk profile and may impact the capital levels our regulators believe is appropriate in light of such risks. We utilize various techniques such as loan sales, workouts, and restructurings to manage our problem assets. Decreases in the value of these problem assets, the underlying collateral, or in the borrowers’ performance or financial condition, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant commitments of time from management and staff, which can be detrimental to performance of their other responsibilities. There can be no assurance that we will not experience further increases in nonperforming loans in the future. Our acquisitions and the integration of acquired businesses may not result in all of the benefits anticipated, and future acquisitions may be dilutive to current shareholders. We have in the past and may in the future seek to grow our business by acquiring other businesses. There can be no assurance that our acquisitions will have the anticipated positive results, including results relating to: correctly assessing the asset quality of the assets being acquired; the total cost of integration including management attention and resources; the time required to complete the integration successfully; the amount of longer-term cost savings; being able to profitably deploy funds acquired in an acquisition; or the overall performance of the combined entity. We also may encounter difficulties in obtaining required regulatory approvals and unexpected contingent liabilities can arise from the businesses we acquire. Integration of an acquired business can be complex and costly, sometimes including combining relevant accounting and data processing systems and management controls, as well as managing relevant relationships with employees, clients, suppliers and other business partners. Integration efforts could divert management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our operations or results. Given the continued market volatility and uncertainty, notwithstanding our loss-sharing arrangements with the FDIC, we may continue to experience increased credit costs or need to take additional markdowns and allowances for loan losses on the assets and loans acquired that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. We may also experience difficulties in complying with the technical requirements of our loss-sharing agreements with the FDIC, which could result in some assets which we acquire in FDIC-assisted transactions losing their coverage under such agreements. There is no assurance that as our integration efforts continue in connection with these transactions, other unanticipated costs, including the diversion of personnel, or losses, will not be incurred. Acquisitions may also result in business disruptions that cause us to lose customers or cause customers to remove their accounts from us and move their business to competing financial institutions. It is possible that the 16 Table of Contents integration process related to acquisitions could result in the disruption of our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees. The loss of key employees in connection with an acquisition could adversely affect our ability to successfully conduct our business. We may engage in future acquisitions involving the issuance of additional common stock and/or cash. Any such acquisitions and related issuances of stock may have a dilutive effect on earnings per share and the percentage ownership of current shareholders. The use of cash as consideration in any such acquisitions could impact our capital position and may require us to raise additional capital. Furthermore, notwithstanding our recent acquisitions, we cannot provide any assurance as to the extent to which we can continue to grow through acquisitions as this will depend on the availability of prospective target opportunities at valuations we find attractive and the competition for such opportunities from other parties. Our decisions regarding the fair value of assets acquired, including the FDIC loss-sharing assets, could be inaccurate which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the acquired loans, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of secured loans. In FDIC-assisted acquisitions that include loss-sharing agreements, we may record a loss-sharing asset that we consider adequate to absorb the indemnified portion of future losses which may occur in the acquired loan portfolio. The FDIC loss-sharing asset is accounted for on the same basis as the related acquired loans and OREO and primarily represents the present value of the cash flows the Company expects to collect from the FDIC under the loss-sharing agreements. If our assumptions are incorrect, significant earnings volatility can occur and the balance of the FDIC loss-sharing asset may at any time be insufficient to cover future loan losses, and credit loss provisions may be needed to respond to different economic conditions or adverse developments in the acquired loan portfolio. Any increase in future loan losses could have a negative effect on our operating results. FDIC-assisted acquisition opportunities may not become available and increased competition may make it more difficult for us to successfully bid on failed bank transactions. A part of our near-term business strategy is to pursue failing banks that the FDIC plans to place in receivership. The FDIC may not place banks that meet our strategic objectives into receivership. Failed bank transactions are attractive opportunities in part because of loss-sharing arrangements with the FDIC that limit the acquirer’s downside risk on the purchased loan portfolio and, apart from our assumption of deposit liabilities, we have significant discretion as to the non-deposit liabilities that we assume in such transactions. In addition, assets purchased from the FDIC are marked to their fair value and in many cases there is little or no addition to goodwill arising from an FDIC-assisted transaction. The bidding process for failing banks could become very competitive and the FDIC does not provide information about bids until after the failing bank has been closed. We may not be able to match or beat the bids of other acquirers unless we bid aggressively by increasing the premium paid on assumed deposits or reducing the discount bid on assets purchased, which could make the acquisition less attractive to us. Our profitability measures could be adversely affected if we are unable to effectively deploy recently raised capital. We may use the net proceeds of our capital raise completed in May 2010 for selective acquisitions that meet our disciplined acquisition criteria, to fund internal growth, or for general corporate purposes. Although we are periodically engaged in discussions with potential acquisition candidates, we are not currently a party to any purchase or merger agreement. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate future acquisitions on terms acceptable to us. Investing the proceeds of our recent offering in securities until we are able to deploy the 17 Table of Contents proceeds would provide lower margins than we generally earn on loans, potentially adversely impacting shareholder returns, including earnings per share, net interest margin, return on assets and return on equity. If the goodwill we have recorded in connection with acquisitions becomes impaired, it could have an adverse impact on our earnings and capital. Accounting standards require that we account for acquisitions using the acquisition method of accounting. Under acquisition accounting, if the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of its net assets, the excess is carried on the acquirer’s balance sheet as goodwill. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, our goodwill is evaluated for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. Such evaluation is based on a variety of factors, including the quoted price of our common stock, market prices of common stock of other banking organizations, common stock trading multiples, discounted cash flows, and data from comparable acquisitions. There can be no assurance that future evaluations of goodwill will not result in impairment and ensuing write-down, which could be material, resulting in an adverse impact on our earnings and capital. Fluctuating interest rates could adversely affect our business. Significant increases in market interest rates on loans, or the perception that an increase may occur, could adversely affect both our ability to originate new loans and our ability to grow. Conversely, decreases in interest rates could result in an acceleration of loan prepayments. An increase in market interest rates could also adversely affect the ability of our floating-rate borrowers to meet their higher payment obligations. If this occurred, it could cause an increase in nonperforming assets and charge offs, which could adversely affect our business. Further, our profitability is dependent to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference (or “spread”) between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our interest rate spread, and, in turn, our profitability. The FDIC has increased insurance premiums to restore and maintain the federal deposit insurance fund, which has increased our costs and could adversely affect our business. In 2009, the FDIC imposed a special deposit insurance assessment of five basis points on all insured institutions, and also required insured institutions to prepay estimated quarterly risk-based assessments through 2012. The Dodd-Frank Act established 1.35% as the minimum deposit insurance fund reserve ratio. The FDIC has determined that the fund reserve ratio should be 2.0% and has adopted a plan under which it will meet the statutory minimum fund reserve ratio of 1.35% by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2020. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to offset the effect on institutions with assets less than $10 billion of the increase in the statutory minimum fund reserve ratio to 1.35% from the former statutory minimum of 1.15%. The FDIC has not announced how it will implement this offset or how larger institutions will be affected by it. Despite the FDIC’s actions to restore the deposit insurance fund, the fund will suffer additional losses in the future due to failures of insured institutions. There can be no assurance that there will not be additional significant deposit insurance premium increases, special assessments or prepayments in order to restore the insurance fund’s reserve ratio. Any significant premium increases or special assessments could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents We operate in a highly regulated environment and changes of or increases in, or supervisory enforcement of, banking or other laws and regulations or governmental fiscal or monetary policies could adversely affect us. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. In addition, as a publicly-traded company, we are subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any change in applicable regulations or federal, state or local legislation or in policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement, income tax laws and accounting principles could have a substantial impact on us and our operations. Changes in laws and regulations may also increase our expenses by imposing additional fees or taxes or restrictions on our operations. Additional legislation and regulations that could significantly affect our powers, authority and operations may be enacted or adopted in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to appropriately comply with any such laws, regulations or principles could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, or damage to our reputation, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In that regard, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was enacted in July 2010. Among other provisions, the new legislation (i) creates a new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection with broad powers to regulate consumer financial products such as credit cards and mortgages, (ii) creates a Financial Stability Oversight Council comprised of the heads of other regulatory agencies, (iii) will lead to new capital requirements from federal banking agencies, (iv) places new limits on electronic debt card interchange fees and (v) will require the Securities and Exchange Commission and national stock exchanges to adopt significant new corporate governance and executive compensation reforms. The new legislation and regulations are expected to increase the overall costs of regulatory compliance. Further, regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws or regulations by financial institutions and holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. Recently, these powers have been utilized more frequently due to the serious national, regional and local economic conditions we are facing. The exercise of regulatory authority may have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, our business is affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the U.S. federal government and its agencies, including the Federal Reserve Board. We cannot accurately predict the full effects of recent legislation or the various other governmental, regulatory, monetary and fiscal initiatives which have been and may be enacted on the financial markets, on the Company and on the Bank. The terms and costs of these activities, or the failure of these actions to help stabilize the financial markets, asset prices, market liquidity and a continuation or worsening of current financial market and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock. A continued tightening of the credit markets and credit market volatility may make it difficult to maintain adequate funding for loan growth, which could adversely affect our earnings. A continued tightening of the credit markets and the inability to maintain adequate liquidity to fund continued loan growth may negatively affect asset growth and, therefore, our earnings capability. In addition to deposit growth and payments of principal and interest received on loans and investment securities, we also rely on borrowing lines with the FHLB of Seattle and the FRB of San Francisco to fund loans. However, the FHLB has discontinued the repurchase of its stock and discontinued the distribution of dividends. Based on the foregoing, there can be no assurance the FHLB will have sufficient resources to continue to fund our borrowings at their current levels. In the event of a deterioration in our financial condition or a further downturn in the economy, particularly in the housing market, our ability to access these funding resources could be negatively affected, which could limit the funds available to us making it difficult for us to maintain adequate funding for 19 Table of Contents loan growth. In addition, our customers’ ability to raise capital and refinance maturing obligations could be adversely affected, resulting in a further unfavorable impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required, in the future, to recognize impairment with respect to investment securities, including the FHLB stock we hold. Our securities portfolio currently includes securities with unrecognized losses. We may continue to observe declines in the fair market value of these securities. We evaluate the securities portfolio for any other than temporary impairment each reporting period, as required by generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, and as of December 31, 2010, we did not recognize any securities as other-than-temporarily impaired. There can be no assurance, however, that future evaluations of the securities portfolio will not require us to recognize an impairment charge with respect to these and other holdings. In addition, as a condition to membership in the FHLB, we are required to purchase and hold a certain amount of FHLB stock. Our stock purchase requirement is based, in part, upon the outstanding principal balance of advances from the FHLB. At December 31, 2010, we had stock in the FHLB totaling $17.9 million. The FHLB stock held by us is carried at cost and is subject to recoverability testing under applicable accounting standards. The FHLB has discontinued the repurchase of their stock and discontinued the distribution of dividends. As of December 31, 2010, we did not recognize an impairment charge related to our FHLB stock holdings. There can be no assurance, however, that future negative changes to the financial condition of the FHLB may not require us to recognize an impairment charge with respect to such holdings. Our ability to access markets for funding and acquire and retain customers could be adversely affected by negative public opinion, the deterioration of other financial institutions or the further deterioration of the financial services industry’s reputation. The financial services industry continues to be featured in negative headlines about the global and national credit crisis and the resulting stabilization legislation enacted by the U.S. federal government. These reports can be damaging to the industry’s image and potentially erode consumer confidence in insured financial institutions, such as our banking subsidiary. In addition, our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and financial condition of other financial institutions or negative public opinion resulting from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, governmental enforcement actions taken by regulators or community organizations in response to those activities. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, correspondent, counterparty or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry in general, could lead to market-wide liquidity problems, losses of depositor, creditor and counterparty confidence and to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. We could experience material changes in the level of deposits as a direct or indirect result of other banks’ difficulties or failure, which could affect the amount of capital we need. Substantial competition in our market areas could adversely affect us. Commercial banking is a highly competitive business. We compete with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance, insurance and other non-depository companies operating in our market areas. We also experience competition, especially for deposits, from internet-based banking institutions, which have grown rapidly in recent years. We are subject to substantial competition for loans and deposits from other financial institutions. Some of our competitors are not subject to the same degree of regulation and restriction as we are. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do. Some of our competitors have severe liquidity issues, which could impact the pricing of deposits in our marketplace. If we are unable to effectively compete in our market areas, our business, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents Changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be very difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. There can be no assurance as to the level of dividends we may pay on our common stock. Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and there may be circumstances under which we would eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our ability to receive dividends from our banking subsidiary accounts for most of our revenue and could affect our liquidity and ability to pay dividends. We are a separate and distinct legal entity from our banking subsidiary, Columbia State Bank. We receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our banking subsidiary. In addition to capital raised at the holding company level, these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and principal and interest on our outstanding debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank may pay us. Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. Limitations on our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiary could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and on our ability to pay dividends on common stock. Additionally, if our subsidiary’s earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common shareholders or principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt. Significant legal or regulatory actions could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities and reputational harm and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are from time to time subject to claims and proceedings related to our operations. These claims and legal actions, which could include supervisory or enforcement actions by our regulators, or criminal proceedings by prosecutorial authorities, could involve large monetary claims, including civil money penalties or fines imposed by government authorities, and significant defense costs. To mitigate the cost of some of these claims, we maintain insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations. However, our insurance coverage does not cover any civil money penalties or fines imposed by government authorities and may not cover all other claims that might be brought against us or continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost. As a result, we may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. We are subject to a variety of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal risk and compliance risk, and the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, and unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. 21 Table of Contents If personal, non-public, confidential or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and our large transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We also may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, or natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or physical assets) which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that we (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in a diminished ability of us to operate our business (for example, by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect), as well as potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. We may pursue additional capital, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, could dilute the holders of our outstanding common stock and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the current economic environment, we believe it is prudent to consider alternatives for raising capital when opportunities to raise capital at attractive prices present themselves, in order to further strengthen our capital and better position ourselves to take advantage of opportunities that may arise in the future. Such alternatives may include issuance and sale of common or preferred stock, trust preferred securities, or borrowings by the Company, with proceeds contributed to our banking subsidiary, Columbia State Bank (the “Bank”). Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at the time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. We cannot assure you that such capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Any such capital raising alternatives could dilute the holders of our outstanding common stock, and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our performance measures such as earnings per share. We have various anti-takeover measures that could impede a takeover. Our articles of incorporation include certain provisions that could make more difficult the acquisition of us by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest, merger or otherwise. These provisions include certain non-monetary factors that our board of directors may consider when evaluating a takeover offer, and a requirement that any “Business Combination” be approved by the affirmative vote of no less than 66 2/3% of the total shares attributable to persons other than a “Control Person.” These provisions may have the effect of lengthening the time required for a person to acquire control of us though a tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise, and may deter any potentially hostile offers or other efforts to obtain control of us. This could deprive our shareholders of opportunities to realize a premium for their Columbia common stock, even in circumstances where such action is favored by a majority of our shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 22 Table of Contents 