ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Related to our Business Our bankruptcy reorganization may negatively impact our future operations. On March 30, 2008, we filed voluntary petitions for relief under chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. Prior to the commencement of the Chapter 11 Cases, we negotiated with and obtained the support of our largest secured and unsecured creditors with respect to the Plan. It is anticipated that our trade creditors will be unaffected by the Plan and our Chapter 11 Cases. We believe we will be able to emerge from chapter 11 no later than the fall of 2008 with a viable capital structure and with sufficient liquidity to continue operating as a going concern. Nonetheless, our Chapter 11 Cases may adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers, maintain contracts that are critical to our operations, and to retain key executives, managers and employees. Our ability to emerge from chapter 11 as a going concern is conditioned upon compliance with the terms and deadlines contained in the Plan Support Agreement, many of which are beyond our control. Our ability to continue operating as a going concern is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to successfully restructure our indebtedness and to emerge from bankruptcy with viable and profitable operations and with adequate liquidity. We believe the Plan will achieve these objectives. Prior to filing the petitions, we negotiated with and obtained the support of our largest secured and unsecured creditors for the terms of the Plan as evidenced by the PSA, which was filed contemporaneously with our petitions for relief under the Bankruptcy Code. The PSA contains a number of conditions, including that the Plan and Disclosure Statement must be approved by the Bankruptcy Court by certain deadlines. There can be no assurance that the Plan and Disclosure Statement will be approved or that we will be able to satisfy all of the other conditions of the PSA. If the Plan is not approved, we may be unable to pay our debts as presently scheduled, which would require us to seek protection in chapter 11 without the support of our creditors and could force us to liquidate the Company under chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code due to our limited unencumbered available resources. Accordingly, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might be required should we be unable to continue to operate as a going concern. 14 Table of Contents The existing Common Stock of the Company is contemplated to be cancelled pursuant to the Plan and may have no value. Our current shareholders may be entitled to receive rights to future payment upon consummation of the reorganization. Under the Plan, all of the Debtors’ existing Common Stock, stock options, warrants and unvested restricted stock awards will be cancelled upon emergence from chapter 11. Upon the Debtors’ emergence from chapter 11, certain unsecured creditors will receive shares of New Common Stock, which will not be publicly traded and the existing shares of Common Stock will have become delisted. Holders of existing Common Stock, stock options, warrants or unvested restricted stock awards will receive no distribution. Although holders of existing Common Stock will not receive any distributions on account of their interests, as a result of the compromises and settlements set forth in the Plan holders of existing Common Stock that do not object to the Plan will be eligible to receive CPRs (defined below) that provide for the pro rata distribution of net cash proceeds from new licensing and other monetization initiatives related to the Debtors’ intellectual property after amounts required to retire all outstanding debt, preferred stock and scheduled pension contributions and other obligations are first recovered. Once net cash proceeds totaling approximately $83.8 million have been received by the newly reorganized Debtors after they emerge from chapter 11 (“Reorganized Debtors”), the holders of these rights will be entitled to receive their pro rata share of 50% of all subsequent proceeds related to the Debtors’ intellectual property as set forth above, net of expenses of administering the CPRs (the “Contingent Payment Rights” or “CPRs”). There can be no assurance that the Debtors will be able to generate any future licensing revenue or other proceeds from other monetization initiatives or, if they do, whether they will attain sufficient levels required to provide for distributions to the holders of the CPRs. We do not believe that the CPRs will constitute securities; the CPRs will not be registered and will have limited rights of transferability. As a result of the Chapter 11 Cases, our Common Stock may be delisted from Nasdaq. As a result of the filing of the Chapter 11 Cases, we received notice from Nasdaq on April 11, 2008 that it intends to delist our Common Stock at the opening of business on April 21, 2008, unless we request an appeal. We are evaluating whether to appeal Nasdaq’s determination, and plan to file a Current Report on Form 8-K shortly, which will contain more information about Nasdaq’s notice of delisting. Even if we decide to appeal, we cannot assure you that Nasdaq will agree to revoke its delisting of our Common Stock. Implementation of the Plan as contemplated will result in a Change of Control. The cancellation of our Common Stock and the issuance of New Common Stock to certain of our creditors, as contemplated by the Plan, will result in a change of control of the Debtors. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Plan of Reorganization,” and “Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters—Changes in Control.” Provision for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes in years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, 2005 included foreign and state income taxes and withholding taxes on royalty revenue. In 2005, we were able to lower our tax provision by utilizing NOL carryforwards. At December 31, 2007, we had federal NOLs for income tax purposes of approximately $200 million, expiring in the years 2009 through 2027. In addition, we have federal capital loss carryforwards totaling $8.8 million at December 31, 2007, which may be utilized to offset capital gains, if any, generated in future periods. Cancellation of indebtedness arising from the chapter 11 reorganization is anticipated to reduce the amount of NOL carryforwards by approximately $50 million. A corporation’s use of its net operating loss carryforwards is generally limited under section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code if a corporation undergoes an “ownership change.” When an “ownership change” occurs pursuant to a chapter 11 reorganization, the general limitation under section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code may not apply if certain requirements are satisfied under either section 382(l)(5) or section 382(l)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code. We will experience an “ownership change” in connection with our chapter 11 reorganization, but we have not yet determined whether we will be eligible for 15 Table of Contents or rely on the special rule under section 382(l)(5) or the special rule under section 382(l)(6). Assuming we rely on section 382(l)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code, a second “ownership change” within two years from the effective date of our chapter 11 Plan would eliminate completely our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryovers. Regardless of whether we rely on section 382(l)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code, an “ownership change” after the effective date of chapter 11 reorganization could significantly limit our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards for taxable years including or following such “ownership change.” The remaining provision for income taxes in 2007, 2006 and 2005 consisted primarily of foreign withholding taxes on royalty revenue generated in certain Far East locations. Our operating results and income have fluctuated significantly in the past and will continue to fluctuate, and we may not be profitable in the future. Our revenues and results of operations are generally subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations. Various factors affect our operating results, some of which are not within our control, including: • receipt of lump sum, prepaid and ongoing licensing royalties; • the expiration of a patent under license; • product sales by licensees; • new licenses with licensees; • the effect of our chapter 11 filing on customers, suppliers, and employees • litigation expense and the cost of our chapter 11 filing; • debt repayments and interest expense; • the amount and timing of pension contributions and related funding obligations; • customer ordering and government spending patterns; • availability and market acceptance of new products and services; • timing of significant orders and new product announcements; and • order cancellations. For example, our licensing revenue has historically fluctuated widely due to a number of factors that we cannot predict, such as the timing and negotiated terms of patent settlement agreements in any particular period, the extent to which third parties acknowledge use of our patented technology, the extent to which we must pursue litigation in order to enforce our patents to protect our business, and the ultimate success of our licensing and litigation activities. Licensing revenue also depends in part on fluctuating sales volumes and prices of licensees’ products that incorporate our technology. Our Recorders segment revenues may also fluctuate significantly in future periods. While this segment reported operating income for 2007, 2006 and 2005, its business is dependent on the funding of government defense programs, which may come under increased pressure in the future, leading to a decline in sales. In addition, a substantial portion of our Recorders segment backlog at a given time is normally shipped within one or two quarters thereafter, and revenues in any quarter are heavily dependent on orders received in that quarter and the immediately preceding quarter. Our licensing revenue has been materially and adversely affected due to the expiration of one of our patents in April 2006. Furthermore, if we are unable to protect our intellectual property adequately, our revenues will be reduced and we may not be able to compete effectively. In April 2006, our Rapid Image Retrieval patent (“121” patent) used in digital still cameras and camera equipped cellular phones expired. While we continue to believe that certain other patents are being used in digital still cameras and camera-equipped cellular phones which do not expire until after 2012, our licensees of these products have discontinued royalty payments to us subsequent to the expiration of the 121 patent. To date we have been unable to prove infringement of any of our other digital imaging patents that we believe may be used 16 Table of Contents in a variety of digital imaging consumer products. Even if we were able to prove infringement we would have to obtain resources from contingency law firms or other sources to support our licensing initiatives and to potentially defend us against litigation that prospective licensees might initiate in exchange for a percentage of future royalties. There can be no assurance that we could obtain these resources on terms that would be satisfactory. The success of our Licensing and Recorders segments depends, in part, upon our ability to establish and maintain the proprietary nature of our technology through the patent process. There can be no assurance that one or more of our patents will not be successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that we will otherwise be able to rely on such patents for any reason. In addition, our competitors, many of whom have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may seek to apply for and obtain patents that restrict our ability to make, use and sell our products either in the United States or in foreign markets. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as the laws of the United States. If any of our patents are successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented or our right or ability to manufacture our products becomes restricted, our ability to continue to manufacture and market our products could be adversely affected, which would likely have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unless we are able to develop or acquire new patents in the digital imaging field or other fields or to demonstrate infringement of later-expiring patents, our licensing revenues will expire in 2014. Moreover, if other companies develop patented proprietary technology similar to ours or competing technologies, our competitive position will be weakened and we may experience reduced license revenues. Our business depends materially on U.S. government spending and a decrease in that spending may adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Our Recorders segment depends materially on continued expenditures by the U.S. government on intelligence and defense programs. Significant portions of data acquisition and instrumentation recorder sales reflect purchases by prime contractors to the federal government, which are subject to significant fluctuations. The large U.S. budget deficit is expected to result in the cancellation of various defense programs. We do not know whether programs in which we participate will be affected by such cuts, program delays or deferred funding. The loss or significant decline in spending on various imaging and intelligence gathering programs, in which we are subcontractors to prime government contractors, or the lack of acceptance of our new products, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. In addition, other factors relating to the markets for our instrumentation products and to competition in these markets may affect future sales of these products. Our DDRs disk-based data acquisition recorder and our DSRs solid state memory-based data acquisition recorder have been designed to replace a large installed base of DCRsi tape-based data acquisition recorders over several years. However, there can be no assurance that these products will achieve the same level of market acceptance. Also, as our DST and DCRsi tape-based products are replaced, we expect that revenues from the sale of spare parts, service and tape will decline. We have substantial unfunded pension liabilities, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to maintain or grow our operations. We are the Plan Sponsor for the Ampex and Media defined benefit pension plans, which were frozen in 1994 but remain substantially underfunded. At December 31, 2007, unfunded accumulated plan benefit obligations under these pension plans totaled $44.2 million and $13.5 million, respectively, and have been recognized as liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. Future pension contributions payable under these pension plans will fluctuate based on actual investment performance, life expectancy of the participants and other factors versus such assumptions used to project future pension contributions. 17 Table of Contents Under the Joint Settlement Agreement, Hillside is required to advance pension contributions for the Ampex and Media pension plans in the event that we cannot make such contributions. As part of the Plan, Hillside will remain jointly and severally obligated with us to fund pension contributions in the event that we are unable to do so. We believe that Hillside has sufficient assets to fund future pension contributions under the Joint Settlement Agreement, but we do not own or control Hillside and, except for the provisions of the Joint Settlement Agreement and the related Hillside Agreement, our ability to borrow pension contributions from Hillside is beyond our control. Under the Plan, except for certain amendments to the Hillside Agreement, the Joint Settlement Agreement will remain unaffected by the Plan and our Chapter 11 Cases, and Hillside’s obligations thereunder will continue in effect. If we are unable to respond to rapid technological change or to develop new products, our revenues and results of operations will be adversely affected. All the industries and markets from which we derive or expect to derive revenues, directly or through our licensing program, are characterized by continual technological change and the need to introduce new products, product upgrades and patentable technology. This has required, and will continue to require, that we spend substantial amounts of capital on the research, development and engineering of new products and advances to existing products, as well as for assessing infringement of our patents by manufacturers of consumer digital video products. We cannot assure you that our existing products, technologies and services will not become obsolete or that any new products, technologies or services will obtain commercial acceptance. Obsolescence of existing product lines, or inability to develop and introduce new products and services, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations in the future. The development and introduction of new technologies, products and services are subject to inherent technical and market risks, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in this regard. In addition, reductions in our research and development programs could adversely affect our ability to remain competitive. Because our Recorders segment is primarily focused on our data acquisition and instrumentation products, we have devoted the majority of our research and development to producing our new solid state- and disk-based instrumentation recorders. We do not currently intend to invest additional development resources to extend the life of our 19-millimeter mass storage products beyond the quad density format other than as required to support the needs of our customers. If our Recorders segment were to experience further declines in product revenues, we may be required to reduce future research, development and engineering costs, which may have a material adverse affect on our future operations. We have numerous significant competitors in our Recorders segment, some of which have greater financial resources than we do. Our Recorders segment encounters significant competition in all the markets for its products and services. Many of our competitors in this industry have greater resources and access to capital than us. In the instrumentation market, which currently is our Recorders segment’s major area of focus, we compete primarily with companies that depend on government contracts for a major portion of their revenues, including L-3 Communications Corporation, Calculex and Sypris Solutions, Inc. While the number of our competitors in this industry has decreased in recent years as government spending in many areas has declined, many of these competitors have greater financial resources than we do. We rely on a limited number of key suppliers and vendors to operate our business. If these suppliers or vendors experience problems or favor our competitors, we could fail to obtain sufficient quantities of products and services we require to operate our business successfully. Our Recorders segment purchases certain components such as customized integrated circuits, memory chips and magnetic media products from a single or a small number of domestic or foreign manufacturers. Significant delays in deliveries or defects in such components may, from time to time, adversely affect our manufacturing operations, pending qualification of an alternative supplier. In addition, we produce highly engineered products in relatively small quantities. As a result, our ability to cause suppliers to continue production of certain products on which we depend or to deliver those products to us on a timely basis may be limited. These suppliers may 18 Table of Contents require us to purchase lifetime quantities of their products or components, which may cause our inventories to increase beyond levels required to support current revenues. We do not generally enter into long-term raw materials or components supply contracts. Accordingly, if we experience problems with these manufacturers, we could fail to obtain sufficient resources to operate our business successfully. Our international operations subject us to social, political and economic risks of doing business in foreign countries. Although we significantly curtailed our Recorders segment’s international operations in prior years, sales to foreign customers (including U.S. export sales) continue to be significant to our results of operations. However, international operations are subject to a number of special risks, including limitations on repatriation of earnings, restrictive actions by local governments, and nationalization. Additionally, export sales are subject to export regulation and restrictions imposed by U.S. government agencies. Although fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies can affect our results of operations, we do not normally seek to mitigate our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations by hedging our foreign currency positions. Accordingly, our revenues from international operations are subject to numerous risks, any of which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We are dependent on certain key personnel and the loss of one or more of these individuals could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our financial results. We are highly dependent upon the availability and performance of our executive officers and directors, including the senior executives of our corporate licensing division and Data Systems subsidiary. We have not entered into employment agreements with any of our key employees other than D. Gordon Strickland, our Chief Executive Officer and President since February 16, 2007 (whose employment agreement would not necessarily protect the Company from the loss of his services), and we do not maintain key man life insurance on any of these individuals. Under the Plan, it is contemplated that the composition of the Debtors’ Boards of Directors will change to include nominees of Hillside, our largest unsecured creditor. We cannot assure you that this proposed leadership transition, or the Chapter 11 Cases, will not have a negative impact on our ability to retain our key executives, managers and employees. If we lose the services of any of these key personnel, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. We are subject to environmental regulation and could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. Our facilities are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations designed to protect the environment from waste emissions and hazardous substances. Owners and occupiers of sites containing hazardous substances, as well as generators and transporters of hazardous substances, are subject to broad liability under various federal and state environmental laws and regulations, including liability for investigative and cleanup costs and damages arising out of past disposal activities. We are currently engaged in various environmental investigations, remediation and/or monitoring activities at several sites located off our facilities. There can be no assurance we will be able to obtain a discharge of any potential obligations with respect to environmental matters upon emergence from chapter 11 or that additional liabilities with respect to environmental matters will not be asserted in the future. In addition, changes in environmental regulations could impose the need for additional capital equipment or other requirements. Such liabilities or regulations could have a material adverse effect on us in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 19 Table of Contents 