ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position or results of operations. These risk factors may not include all of the important factors that could affect our business or our industry or that could cause our future financial results to differ materially from historic or expected results or cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. Our pipeline of products in development may be subject to regulatory delays at the FDA. Delays in key products could have material adverse effects on our business, financial position and results of operations. Our future revenue growth and profitability are dependent upon our ability to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis in relation to our competitors’ product introductions. Our failure to do so successfully could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Many products require FDA approval prior to being marketed. The process of obtaining FDA approval to manufacture and market new and generic pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time-consuming, costly and largely unpredictable. We may be unable to obtain requisite FDA approvals on a timely basis for new generic products that we may develop. The Company has experienced delays on non-material products from time to time, and has on occasion withdrawn ANDAs when the Company determined that approval was not likely. The ANDA process often results in the FDA granting final approval to a number of ANDAs for a given product. We may face immediate competition when we introduce a generic product into the market. These circumstances could result in significantly lower prices, as well as reduced margins, for generic products compared to brand products. New generic market entrants generally cause continued price and margin erosion over the generic product life cycle. 10 Table of Contents From June 2010 to February 2011, the Company did not receive any approvals, because the Company was on a compliance hold related to a warning letter at the FDA. The timing and cost of obtaining FDA approvals could adversely affect our product introduction plans, financial position and results of operations. We have sold certain prescription items that the Company believes did not require FDA approval. The FDA has taken action to require formal approvals for many of these products. During fiscal year 2012, Hi-Tech sold two generic prescription products which did not have formal FDA approvals. On March 2, 2011, the FDA indicated in its MedWatch publication that the FDA intended to remove approximately 500 currently marketed cough/cold and allergy related products. Three of these were marketed by ECR Pharmaceuticals under the brand name Lodrane®. ECR Pharmaceuticals stopped shipping these products in August 2011. Sales of these discontinued Lodrane® products amounted to approximately $2,500,000 and $16,600,000 for the years ended April 30, 2012 and April 30, 2011, respectively. The Company reserved $900,000 for the potential obsolescence of Lodrane® inventory held as of April 30, 2011. The Company is pursuing a variety of options to obtain FDA approval for a Lodrane® product. Many of these products either fall under the grandfathered Drug Efficacy Study Implementation (“DESI”) or nutritional classifications. Grandfathered drugs are drugs that were on the market prior to the passage of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act of 1938. It was not until the passage of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act of 1938 that a New Drug Application (“NDA”) was required for marketing a drug product as the regulatory mechanism for insuring that all new drugs were cleared for safety prior to distribution. The requirement for pre-clearance for effectiveness was added by the 1962 amendment. Following enactment of the 1938 law, drugs on the market prior to that time were exempted or “grandfathered” and manufacturers were not required to file an NDA. The premise was that all pre-1938 drugs were considered safe, and if the manufacturer did not change the product formulation or indication, then an NDA was not required. FDA has taken the position, however, that if manufacturing conditions or labeling for the pre-1938 drugs have changed then these drugs are no longer “grandfathered” and require formal FDA approval. DESI drugs are drugs that were approved solely on the basis of their safety prior to 1962. Thereafter, Congress required drugs to be shown to be effective as well. The FDA initiated the DESI program to evaluate the effectiveness of those drugs that had been previously approved on safety grounds alone. These drugs, and those identical, related, and similar to them, may continue to be marketed until the administrative proceedings evaluating their effectiveness have been concluded, at which point continued marketing is only permitted if an NDA is approved for such drugs. The vast majority of the DESI proceedings have been concluded, but a few are still pending. On June 30, 2010, the Company received a warning letter from the FDA. The warning letter primarily dealt with the marketing of several products that the FDA states require FDA approval and manufacturing practices related to those products. The Company responded to the warning letter and met with the FDA to determine how best to resolve these issues. The Company suspended sales of these products indefinitely until the issue is resolved. Sales of these products totaled approximately $5,000,000 in fiscal year 2010. In addition, the Company incurred an expense of $865,000 to write off the value of the inventory used in the manufacturing of these products. On September 5, 2011, the Company received a letter from the FDA stating that based on the FDA’s evaluation, Hi-Tech had addressed the violations contained in the warning letter. The following table shows the sales contributions of these unapproved prescription products to each division and Hi-Tech’s total sales for fiscal 2012. % of Sales Hi-Tech Generics 0 % Health Care Products 0 % ECR Pharmaceuticals 17 % Hi-Tech (consolidated) 1 % Continuing studies of the proper utilization, safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products are being conducted by the industry, government agencies and others. Such studies, which increasingly employ sophisticated methods and techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety and efficacy of currently marketed products. In some cases, these studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of product marketing. These situations, should they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, financial position and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We are subject to government regulation from the FDA and the DEA. We face significant costs and uncertainties associated with our efforts to comply with applicable regulations. Should we fail to comply, we could experience material adverse effects on our business, financial position and results of operations. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by various Federal and state governmental authorities. For instance, we must comply with FDA requirements with respect to the manufacture, labeling, sale, distribution, marketing, advertising, promotion and development of pharmaceutical products. Failure to comply with FDA and other governmental regulations can result in fines, disgorgement, unanticipated compliance expenditures, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, suspension of FDA’s review of ANDAs, enforcement actions, injunctions and criminal prosecution. Under certain circumstances, the FDA also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug approvals. Although we have internal regulatory compliance programs and policies and have had a favorable compliance history, there is no guarantee that we may not be deemed to be deficient in some manner in the future. If we were deemed to be deficient in any significant way, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. In addition to the new drug approval process, the FDA also regulates the facilities and operational procedures that we use to manufacture our products. We must register our facilities with the FDA. All products manufactured in those facilities must be made in a manner consistent with current Good Manufacturing Practices (“cGMP”). Compliance with cGMP regulations requires substantial expenditures of time, money and effort in such areas as production and quality control to ensure full technical compliance. Failure to comply with cGMP regulations could result in an enforcement action brought by the FDA, which periodically inspects our manufacturing facilities for compliance, which could include withholding the approval of ANDAs or other product applications of a facility if deficiencies are found at that facility. FDA approval to manufacture a drug is site-specific. If the FDA would cause our manufacturing facilities to cease or limit production, our business could be adversely affected. Delay and cost in obtaining FDA approval to manufacture at a different facility also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. The Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”) enforces the Controlled Substances Act and maintains oversight over the Company’s products that are considered controlled substances. The DEA requires the Company to comply with certain reporting and record keeping requirements and requires certification of the Company’s facilities for the manufacture and sale of these products. We are subject, as are generally all manufacturers, to various Federal, state and local laws of general applicability, such as laws regulating working conditions, as well as environmental protection laws and regulations, including those governing the discharge of materials into the environment. Although we have not incurred significant costs associated with complying with such environmental provisions in the past, if changes to such environmental provisions are made in the future that require significant changes in our operations or if we engage in the development and manufacturing of new products requiring new or different environmental controls, we may be required to expend significant funds. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. As a pharmaceutical manufacturer and distributor, we are subject to extensive regulation by the federal government, principally the FDA and the Drug Enforcement Administration, as well as by state governments. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Controlled Substances Act, the Generic Drug Enforcement Act of 1992 (the “Generic Drug Act”), and other federal statutes and regulations govern the testing, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, approval, advertising and promotion (including to the healthcare community) of our products. The Generic Drug Act, a result of legislative hearings and investigations into the generic drug approval process, is particularly relevant to our business. Under the Generic Drug Act, the FDA is authorized to impose debarment and other penalties on individuals and companies that commit illegal acts relating to the generic drug approval process. In some situations, the Generic Drug Act requires the FDA not to accept or review for a period of time any ANDAs submitted by a company that has committed certain violations and provides for temporary denial of approval of such ANDAs during its investigation. Additionally, non-compliance with other applicable regulatory requirements may result in fines, perhaps significant in amount, and other sanctions imposed by courts and/or regulatory bodies, including the initiation of product seizures, product recalls, injunctive actions and criminal prosecutions. From time to time, we have voluntarily recalled our products. In addition, administrative remedies may involve the refusal of the government to enter into supply contracts with, and/or to approve new drug applications of, a non-complying entity. The FDA also has the authority to withdraw its approval of drugs in accordance with statutory procedures. Once approved, our new products may not achieve the expected levels of market acceptance. Failure to capture market share on new products could have material adverse effects on our business, financial position and results of operations. Our approved products may not achieve expected levels of market acceptance, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, financial position and results of operations. Even if we were able to obtain regulatory approvals of our new pharmaceutical products, generic or brand, the success of those products is dependent upon market acceptance. Levels of market acceptance for new products could be impacted by several factors, including: • the timing of our market entry 12 Table of Contents • the availability of alternative products from our competitors • the price of our products relative to that of our competitors • the availability of authorized generics • the acceptance of our products by government and private formularies Many of these factors are not within our control. Our industry is highly competitive. Competitors could cause pricing declines or loss of market share which could cause material adverse effects on our business, financial position and results of operations. We face competition from other pharmaceutical manufacturers that potentially threatens the commercial acceptance and pricing of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Competitors which compete with Hi-Tech on multiple products include Wockhardt, Qualitest, Actavis, Falcon, Bausch and Lomb, Fougera, Roxanne and Apotex. Each of these competitors is larger than Hi-Tech and may have the ability to price products more competitively than Hi-Tech. These competitors may reduce prices on products that we currently market which would force us to lower our price or could cause us to lose market share. Our competitors may be able to develop products and processes competitive with or superior to our own for many reasons, because they may have: • proprietary processes or delivery systems • larger research and development staffs • larger sales and marketing staffs • larger production capabilities • more products • more experience in developing new drugs and greater financial resources Each of these factors and others could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Competition in the generic drug industry has also increased due to the proliferation of authorized generic pharmaceutical products. “Authorized generics” are generic pharmaceutical products that are introduced by brand companies, either directly or through partnering arrangements with other generic companies. Authorized generics are equivalent to the brand companies’ brand name drugs, but are sold at relatively lower prices than the brand name drugs. An authorized generic product is not prohibited from sale during the 180-day marketing exclusivity period granted to the first generic manufacturer to receive regulatory approval with a Paragraph IV certification in respect to the applicable brand product. The sale of authorized generics adversely impacts the market share of a generic product that has been granted 180 days of marketing exclusivity. This is a significant source of competition for us, because brand companies do not face any regulatory barriers to introducing a generic version of their brand name products. Such actions have the effect of reducing the potential market share and profitability of our generic products and may make certain future opportunities less attractive. We sell our products to a limited number of major customers. The number of customers in our industry has declined due to consolidations over the past several years. Any significant reduction in business with any of our top five customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Our top five customers, based on sales, accounted for 57% of our total sales for fiscal 2012. The Company has standard industry agreements made in the ordinary course of business with these customers which include prompt payment discounts and various standard fee or rebate arrangements. Purchases are made on a purchase order basis. Therefore, the agreements are not material since they do not bind the customers to purchase their requirements from the Company. Any significant reduction of business with any of our top five customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Sales of our products may be adversely affected by the continuing consolidation of our customers. Significant amounts of our sales are made to a relatively small number of drug wholesalers, retail drug chains, managed care purchasing organizations, mail order pharmacies and hospitals. These customers represent an essential part of the distribution chain of generic pharmaceutical products. These customers have undergone, and are continuing to undergo, significant consolidation. This consolidation may result in these groups gaining additional purchasing leverage and consequently increasing the product pricing pressures facing our business. Additionally, the existence of large buying groups representing independent retail pharmacies and the prevalence and influence of managed care organizations and similar institutions potentially enable those groups to attempt to extract price discounts on our products. The result of these developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents We are reliant on third party suppliers for the active ingredients for our products. A prolonged interruption in the supply of such products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Active pharmaceutical ingredients, packaging components, and other materials and supplies that we use in our pharmaceutical manufacturing operations, as well as certain finished products, are generally available and purchased from many different foreign and domestic suppliers. With the exception of a supply agreement for the active ingredient for the Company’s Dorzolamide Hydrochloride products, the Company does not have any written material agreements with any of its raw material suppliers. We attempt to maintain sufficient raw materials inventory, in some cases by carrying long term supplies. In certain cases we have listed only one supplier in our applications with the FDA, but we have applied to the FDA to receive approval to use alternative suppliers on several products. However, there is no guarantee that we will always have timely and sufficient access to a critical raw material or finished product. A prolonged interruption in the supply of a single-sourced active ingredient or finished product could cause our financial position and results of operations to be materially adversely affected. We manufacture a majority of our generic products and some of our over the counter brands at two facilities in one location. A significant disruption at this facility, even on a short term basis, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Our generic products and some of our branded products are produced at our two manufacturing facilities located at one site. The Company stores products at facilities in Amityville, New York and Richmond, Virginia. A significant disruption at the manufacturing facilities, even on a short-term basis, could impair our ability to produce and ship products to the market on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. The following table shows the sales contributions of products manufactured at Hi-Tech’s Amityville facility to each division and to the Company as a whole: % of Sales Hi-Tech Generics 96 % Health Care Products 29 % ECR Pharmaceuticals 0 % Hi-Tech (consolidated) 85 % The Company uses multiple contract manufacturers to supply products not made at Hi-Tech’s Amityville facility. Failure of one or more than one of these manufacturers to supply products to Hi-Tech could have material adverse effects on our business. Over 99% of the products made for our ECR Pharmaceuticals are made at contract manufacturers. Additionally, both our Health Care Products division and our Hi-Tech Generic division utilize contract manufacturers. The Company usually holds higher levels of inventory of products made from outside suppliers to minimize supply disruptions. In the event that one or more of these contract manufactures were to experience manufacturing problems or FDA regulatory issues and were unable to deliver product on behalf of the Company, our financial position and results from operations could be adversely affected. In the normal course of business, we periodically enter into employment agreements, legal settlements and other agreements which incorporate indemnification provisions. We maintain insurance coverage which we believe will effectively mitigate our obligations under these indemnification provisions. Should our obligation under an indemnification provision exceed our coverage or should coverage be denied, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. In the normal course of business, we periodically enter into employment agreements, legal settlements, and other agreements which incorporate indemnification provisions. We maintain insurance coverage which we believe will effectively mitigate our obligations under these indemnification provisions. However, should our obligation under an indemnification provision exceed our coverage or should coverage be denied, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We use a variety of estimates and assumptions in preparing our financial statements. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). Any changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. The financial statements included in the periodic reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP involves making estimates of expenses and income. This includes, but is not limited to, estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the adoption of the provisions of ASC Topic 360-10-35,”Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets”, ASC Topic 605, “Revenue Recognition” and ASC Topic 718,”Compensation—Stock Compensation”. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by qui tam litigation. In connection with the sale of pharmaceutical products, certain claims alleging the submission of false claims to the government can form the basis for qui tam complaints to be filed. The qui tam provisions of the federal civil False Claims Act and various state civil False Claims Acts authorize a private person, known as a “relator” (i.e. “whistleblower”), to file civil actions under the federal and state statutes on behalf of the federal and state governments. Under the federal civil False Claims Act and applicable state civil False Claims Acts, the filing of a qui tam complaint by a relator imposes obligations on federal or state government authorities to investigate the allegations and to determine whether or not to intervene in the action. Such cases typically revolve around the marketing, sale and/or purchase of pharmaceutical products and allege wrongdoing in the marketing, sale and/or purchase of such products. Such complaints are filed under seal and remain sealed until the applicable court orders otherwise. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if it is determined that we are found liable under the qui tam complaint filed against us for false claims under the civil False Claims Act. (See Note [K], Commitments, Contingencies and Other Matters, Legal Proceedings) We are subject to changing rules and regulations of federal and state government as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. We are subject to changing rules and regulations of federal and state government as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and the NASDAQ Global Select Market, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas such as “say on pay” and proxy access. Our efforts to comply with these requirements are likely to result in an increase in expenses which is difficult to quantify at this time. Due to our dependence on a limited number of products, our business will be materially adversely affected if these products do not perform as well as expected. We generate a significant portion of our total revenues and gross margin from the sale of a limited number of products. For the year ended April 30, 2012, our top selling products, Fluticasone Propionate nasal spray and our Dorzolamide Ophthalmic products, accounted for approximately 50% of our total net revenues and a significant portion of our gross margin. Any material adverse developments, including increased competition and supply shortages, with respect to the sale or use of these products, or our failure to successfully introduce other key products, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and gross margin. The use of legal, regulatory and legislative strategies by brand competitors, including authorized generics and citizen’s petitions, as well as the potential impact of proposed legislation, may increase our costs associated with the introduction or marketing of our generic products, delay or prevent such introduction and/or significantly reduce the profit potential of our products. Brand drug companies often pursue strategies that may serve to prevent or delay competition from generic alternatives to their brand products. These strategies include, but are not limited to: • entering into agreements with our generic competitors to begin marketing an authorized generic version of a brand product at the same time that we introduce a generic equivalent of that product • filing “citizen’s petitions” with the FDA, including by timing the filings so as to thwart generic competition by causing delays of our product approvals • seeking to establish regulatory and legal obstacles that would make it more difficult to demonstrate a generic product’s bioequivalence and/or “sameness” to the related brand product 15 Table of Contents • initiating legislative and administrative efforts in various states to limit the substitution of generic versions of brand pharmaceutical products for the related brand products • filing suits for patent infringement that automatically delay FDA approval of generic products • introducing “next-generation” products prior to the expiration of market exclusivity for their brand product, which often materially reduces the demand for the generic product for which we may be seeking FDA approval • obtaining extensions of market exclusivity by conducting clinical trials of brand drugs in pediatric populations or by other methods as discussed below • persuading the FDA to withdraw the approval of brand drugs for which the patents are about to expire, thus allowing the brand company to develop and launch new patented products serving as substitutes for the withdrawn products • seeking to obtain new patents on drugs for which patent protection is about to expire • seeking temporary restraining orders and injunctions against a generic company that has received final FDA approval for a product and is attempting to launch “at risk” prior to resolution of related patent litigation • reducing the marketing of the brand product to healthcare providers, thereby reducing the brand drug’s commercial exposure and market size, which in turn adversely affects the market potential of the equivalent generic product • converting brand prescription drugs that are facing potential generic competition to over-the-counter products, thereby significantly impeding the growth of the generic prescription market for the drugs Our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program and other governmental purchasing and rebate programs are complex and may involve subjective decisions. Any determination that we have failed to comply with those obligations could subject us to penalties and sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect. The regulations regarding reporting and payment obligations with respect to Medicaid reimbursement and rebates and other governmental programs are complex. Our calculations and methodologies are subject to review and challenge by the governmental agencies, and it is possible that such reviews could result in changes. In addition, because our processes for these calculations and the judgments involved in making these calculations involve, and will continue to involve, subjective decisions and complex methodologies, these calculations are subject to the risk of errors. Any governmental agencies that have commenced (or that may commence) an investigation of our company could impose, based on a claim of violation of fraud and false claims laws or otherwise, civil and/or criminal sanctions, including fines, penalties and possible exclusion from federal health care programs (including Medicaid and Medicare). Some of the applicable laws may impose liability even in the absence of specific intent to defraud. Furthermore, should there be ambiguity with regard to how to properly calculate and report payments, and even in the absence of any such ambiguity, a governmental authority may take a position contrary to a position that we have taken and may impose civil and/or criminal sanctions on us. Any such penalties, sanctions, or exclusion from federal health care programs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Litigation is common in our industry, can be protracted and expensive, and could delay and/or prevent entry of our products into the market, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Litigation concerning patents and branded rights can be protracted and expensive. Pharmaceutical companies with patented brand products frequently sue companies that file applications to produce generic equivalents of their patented brand products for alleged patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights, which may delay or prevent the entry of such generic products into the market. Generally, a generic drug may not be marketed until the applicable patent(s) on the brand name drug expire or are held to be not infringed, invalid, or unenforceable. When we or our development partners submit an ANDA to the FDA for approval of a generic drug, we and/or our development partners must certify either (1) that there is no patent listed by the FDA as covering the relevant brand product, (2) that any patent listed as covering the brand product has expired, (3) that the patent listed as covering the brand product will expire prior to the marketing of the generic product, in which case the ANDA will not be finally approved by the FDA until the expiration of such patent, or (4) that any patent listed as covering the brand drug is invalid or will not be infringed by the manufacture, sale or use of the generic product for which the ANDA is submitted. Under any circumstance in which an act of infringement is alleged to occur, there is a risk that a brand pharmaceutical company may sue us for alleged patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Also, competing pharmaceutical companies may file lawsuits against us or our strategic partners alleging patent infringement or may file declaratory judgment actions of non-infringement, invalidity, or unenforceability against us relating to our own patents. We have been sued for patent infringement related to several of our current ANDA filings and we anticipate that we will be sued once we file ANDAs for other products in our pipeline. Such litigation is often costly and time-consuming and could result in a substantial delay in, or prevent, the introduction and/or marketing of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, condition (financial and other) and results of operations. Our stock price is volatile, and the value of your investment could decline. 16 Table of Contents The market prices for securities of pharmaceutical companies like ours have been and are likely to continue to be highly volatile. At times, investors in these companies buy at high prices only to see the prices drop substantially later, resulting in a drop in value in the holdings of these investors. Factors such as announcements of fluctuations in our or our competitors’ operating results, and general market conditions for pharmaceutical stocks, could have a significant impact on the future trading prices of our common stock. In particular, the trading price of our common stock has experienced price and volume fluctuations, which have at times been unrelated to operating performance. Some of the factors that may cause volatility in the price of our securities include: • the timing of new product introductions • quarterly variations in results • clinical trial results and outcomes of other product development activities • regulatory developments • competition, including both brand and generic • business and product market cycles • changes in governmental regulations or legislation affecting our industry • issues with the safety or effectiveness of our products • developments in pending litigation matters or new litigation matters The price of our common stock may also be adversely affected by the estimates and projections of the investment community, general economic and market conditions, and the cost of operations in our product markets. These factors, individually or in the aggregate, could result in significant variations in the trading prices of our common stock. Volatility in the trading prices of our common stock could result in additional securities class action litigations. Any litigation would likely result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. NONE 