ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position or results of operations. These risk factors may not include all of the important factors that could affect our business or our industry or that could cause our future financial results to differ materially from historic or expected results or cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. Our pipeline of products in development may be subject to regulatory delays at the FDA. Delays in key products could have material adverse effects on our business, financial position and results of operations. Our future revenue growth and profitability are dependent upon our ability to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis in relation to our competitors’ product introductions. Our failure to do so successfully could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Many products require FDA approval prior to being marketed. The process of obtaining FDA approval to manufacture and market new and generic pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time-consuming, costly and largely unpredictable. We may be unable to obtain requisite FDA approvals on a timely basis for new generic products that we may develop. Hi-Tech has not experienced difficulties in obtaining FDA approvals leading to delays in introducing any material products. However, the Company has experienced delays on non-material products from time to time. The ANDA process often results in the FDA granting final approval to a number of ANDAs for a given product. We may face immediate competition when we introduce a generic product into the market. These circumstances could result in significantly lower prices, as well as reduced margins, for generic products compared to brand products. New generic market entrants generally cause - 9 - Table of Contents continued price and margin erosion over the generic product life cycle. The timing and cost of obtaining FDA approvals could adversely affect our product introduction plans, financial position and results of operations. Once approved, our new products may not achieve the expected levels of market acceptance. Failure to capture market share on new products could have material adverse effects on our business, financial position and results of operations. Our approved products may not achieve expected levels of market acceptance, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, financial position and results of operations. Even if we were able to obtain regulatory approvals of our new pharmaceutical products, generic or brand, the success of those products is dependent upon market acceptance. Levels of market acceptance for new products could be impacted by several factors, including: • the timing of our market entry • the availability of alternative products from our competitors • the price of our products relative to that of our competitors • the availability of authorized generics • the acceptance of our products by government and private formularies Many of these factors are not within our control. We currently sell numerous prescription items that do not currently require FDA approval. The FDA has taken action to require formal approvals for other products which previously did not require approvals. There is a risk that our unapproved products may be required to undergo a formal FDA approval process. Hi-Tech sells approximately 60 generic prescription products which do not currently require FDA approvals. Most of these products either fall under the Grandfathered, Drug Efficacy Study Implementation (“DESI”) or nutritional classifications. Grandfathered drugs are drugs that were on the market prior to the passage of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act of 1938. It was not until the passage of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act of 1938 that a New Drug Application (NDA) was required for marketing a drug product as the regulatory mechanism for insuring that all new drugs were cleared for safety prior to distribution. The requirement for pre-clearance for effectiveness was added by the 1962 amendment. Following enactment of the 1938 law, drugs on the market prior to that time were exempted or “grandfathered” and manufacturers were not required to file an NDA. The premise was that all pre-1938 drugs were considered safe, and if the manufacturer did not change the product formulation or indication, then an NDA was not required. DESI drugs are drugs that were approved solely on the basis of their safety prior to 1962. Thereafter, Congress required drugs to be shown to be effective as well. The FDA initiated the DESI program to evaluate the effectiveness of those drugs that had been previously approved on safety grounds alone. These drugs, and those identical, related, and similar to them, may continue to be marketed until the administrative proceedings evaluating their effectiveness have been concluded, at which point continued marketing is only permitted if an NDA is approved for such drugs. The vast majority of the DESI proceedings have been concluded, but a few are still pending. Nutritional products include pediatric, prenatal and geriatric vitamin supplements. The following table shows the sales contributions of these prescription products to each division and Hi-Tech’s total sales. % of Sales Hi-Tech Generics 17 % Health Care Products 0 % ECR Pharmaceuticals 69 % Midlothian Laboratories 100 % Hi-Tech (consolidated) 22 % Continuing studies of the proper utilization, safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products are being conducted by the industry, government agencies and others. Such studies, which increasingly employ sophisticated methods and techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety and efficacy of currently marketed products. In some cases, these studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of product marketing. These situations, should they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, financial position and results of operations. Our industry is highly competitive. Competitors could cause pricing declines or loss of market share which could cause material adverse effects on our business, financial position and results of operations. We face competition from other pharmaceutical manufacturers that threatens the commercial acceptance and pricing of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Competitors which compete with Hi-Tech on multiple products include Wockhardt, Qualitest, Actavis and Apotex. Each of these competitors is larger than Hi-Tech and may have the ability to price products more competitively than Hi-Tech. These competitors may reduce prices on products which we currently market, which would force us to lower our price or could cause us to lose market share. - 10 - Table of Contents Our competitors may be able to develop products and processes competitive with or superior to our own for many reasons, including that they may have: • proprietary processes or delivery systems • larger research and development staffs • larger sales and marketing staffs • larger production capabilities • more products • more experience in developing new drugs and greater financial resources Each of these factors and others could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We are subject to government regulation from the FDA and the DEA. We face significant costs and uncertainties associated with our efforts to comply with applicable regulations. Should we fail to comply, we could experience material adverse effects on our business, financial position and results of operations. Because the pharmaceutical industry is heavily regulated, we face significant costs and uncertainties associated with our efforts to comply with applicable regulations. Should we fail to comply, we could experience material adverse effects on our business, financial position and results of operations. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by various Federal and state governmental authorities. For instance, we must comply with FDA requirements with respect to the manufacture, labeling, sale, distribution, marketing, advertising, promotion and development of pharmaceutical products. Failure to comply with FDA and other governmental regulations can result in fines, disgorgement, unanticipated compliance expenditures, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, suspension of FDA’s review of ANDAs, enforcement actions, injunctions and criminal prosecution. Under certain circumstances, the FDA also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug approvals. Although we have internal regulatory compliance programs and policies and have had a favorable compliance history, there is no guarantee that we may not be deemed to be deficient in some manner in the future. If we were deemed to be deficient in any significant way, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. In addition to the new drug approval process, the FDA also regulates the facilities and operational procedures that we use to manufacture our products. We must register our facilities with the FDA. All products manufactured in those facilities must be made in a manner consistent with current Good Manufacturing Practices (“cGMP”). Compliance with cGMP regulations requires substantial expenditures of time, money and effort in such areas as production and quality control to ensure full technical compliance. Failure to comply with cGMP regulations could result in an enforcement action brought by the FDA, which periodically inspects our manufacturing facilities for compliance, which could include withholding the approval of ANDAs or other product applications of a facility if deficiencies are found at that facility. FDA approval to manufacture a drug is site-specific. If the FDA would cause our manufacturing facilities to cease or limit production, our business could be adversely affected. Delay and cost in obtaining FDA approval to manufacture at a different facility also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. The Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”) enforces the Controlled Substances Act and maintains oversight over the Company’s products that are considered controlled substances. The DEA requires the Company to comply with certain reporting and record keeping requirements and requires certification of the Company’s facilities for the manufacture and sale of these products. We are subject, as are generally all manufacturers, to various Federal, state and local laws of general applicability, such as laws regulating working conditions, as well as environmental protection laws and regulations, including those governing the discharge of materials into the environment. Although we have not incurred significant costs associated with complying with such environmental provisions in the past, if changes to such environmental provisions are made in the future that require significant changes in our operations or if we engage in the development and manufacturing of new products requiring new or different environmental controls, we may be required to expend significant funds. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We sell our products to a limited number of major customers. The number of customers in our industry has declined due to consolidations over the past several years. Any significant reduction in business with any of our top five customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Our top 5 customers, based on sales, accounted for 57% of our total sales for fiscal 2009. The Company has standard industry agreements made in the ordinary course of business with these customers which include prompt payment discounts, and various standard fee or rebate arrangements. Purchases are made on a purchase order basis. Therefore, the agreements are not material since they do not bind the customers to purchase their requirements from the Company. Any significant reduction of business with any of our top 5 customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We are reliant on third party suppliers for the active ingredients for our products. A prolonged interruption in the supply of such products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Active pharmaceutical ingredients, packaging components, and other materials and supplies that we use in our pharmaceutical manufacturing operations, as well as certain finished products, are generally available and purchased from many different foreign and - 11 - Table of Contents domestic suppliers. With the exception of a supply agreement for the active ingredient for the Company’s Dorzolamide Hydrochloride products, the Company does not have any written material agreements with any of its raw material suppliers. Additionally, we maintain sufficient raw materials inventory, and in certain cases where we have listed only one supplier in our applications with the FDA, we have received FDA approval to use alternative suppliers should the need arise. However, there is no guarantee that we will always have timely and sufficient access to a critical raw material or finished product. A prolonged interruption in the supply of a single-sourced active ingredient or finished product could cause our financial position and results of operations to be materially adversely affected. We manufacture a majority of our generic products and some of our over the counter brands at one facility. A significant disruption at this facility, even on a short term basis, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Our generic products and some of our branded products are produced at our two manufacturing facilities located at one site. The Company stores products at facilities in Amityville, NY, Montgomery, AL and Richmond, VA. A significant disruption at the manufacturing facilities, even on a short-term basis, could impair our ability to produce and ship products to the market on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. The following table shows the sales contributions of products manufactured at Hi-Tech’s Amityville facility to each division and to the Company as a whole: % of Sales Hi-Tech Generics 93 % Health Care Products 47 % ECR Pharmaceuticals 0 % Midlothian Laboratories 0 % Hi-Tech (consolidated) 80 % The Company uses multiple contract manufacturers to supply products not made at Hi-Tech’s Amityville facility. Failure of one or more than one of these manufacturers to supply products to Hi-Tech could have material adverse effects on our business. 100% of the products made for our ECR Pharmaceuticals subsidiary and Midlothian Laboratories division are made at contract manufacturers. Additionally both our Health Care Products division and our Hi-Tech Generic division utilize contract manufacturers. In the event that one or more of these contract manufactures were to experience manufacturing problems or FDA regulatory issues and were unable to deliver product on behalf of the Company, our financial position and results from operations could be adversely affected. Sales of our products may be adversely affected by the continuing consolidation of our customers. Significant amounts of our sales are made to a relatively small number of drug wholesalers, retail drug chains, managed care purchasing organizations, mail order pharmacies and hospitals. These customers represent an essential part of the distribution chain of generic pharmaceutical products. These customers have undergone, and are continuing to undergo, significant consolidation. This consolidation may result in these groups gaining additional purchasing leverage and consequently increasing the product pricing pressures facing our business. Additionally, the emergence of large buying groups representing independent retail pharmacies and the prevalence and influence of managed care organizations and similar institutions potentially enable those groups to attempt to extract price discounts on our products. The result of these developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. In the normal course of business, we periodically enter into employment, legal settlements and other agreements which incorporate indemnification provisions. We maintain insurance coverage which we believe will effectively mitigate our obligations under these indemnification provisions. Should our obligation under an indemnification provision exceed our coverage or should coverage be denied, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. In the normal course of business, we periodically enter into employment, legal settlements, and other agreements which incorporate indemnification provisions. We maintain insurance coverage which we believe will effectively mitigate our obligations under these indemnification provisions. However, should our obligation under an indemnification provision exceed our coverage or should coverage be denied, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We use a variety of estimates and assumptions in preparing our financial statements. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). Any changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. - 12 - Table of Contents The financial statements included in the periodic reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP involves making estimates of expenses and income. This includes, but is not limited to, estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the adoption of the provisions of SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets and SFAS No. 123, revised 2004, Share-Based Payments. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. On March 6, 2009, the Company received a comment letter from the staff of the Division of Corporation Finance of the SEC. The comments from the staff were issued with respect to its review of our Form 10-K for the year ended April 30, 2008. The comments covered information included in Item 1. Business, Item 1A. Risk Factors, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 11. Executive Compensation. The Company responded to the SEC comment letter on April 8, 2009 and provided proposed additional disclosures for these comments. On June 3, 2009, the Company received a second letter from the SEC with comments covering information found in Item 1. Business and Item 11. Executive Compensation. On July 1, 2009, the Company responded to these comments. The Company has included its proposed additional disclosures in this Form 10-K. 