ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS The risk factors presented below may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial position and cash flows. In addition to the risk factors presented below, changes in general economic conditions, including national, regional and local economic conditions; consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns; demographic trends; employment levels; and other factors that may affect consumer behavior and spending for restaurant dining occasions in general, may have a material impact on us. Our actual results could vary significantly from any results expressed or implied by forward-looking statements depending on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the following risks and uncertainties. Other sections of this report may include additional factors that could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a competitive and dynamic environment. New risk factors may emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict the impact these factors could have on us or the extent to which any one factor, or combination of factors, may adversely affect our results. The global economic crisis adversely impacted our business and financial results in fiscal 2008 and a prolonged recession could materially affect us in the future. The restaurant industry is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending. The global economic crisis has reduced consumer confidence to historic lows impacting the public’s ability and/or desire to spend discretionary dollars as a result of job losses, home foreclosures, significantly reduced home values, investment losses in the 18 Table of Contents financial markets, personal bankruptcies and reduced access to credit, resulting in lower levels of guest traffic in our restaurants. If this difficult economic situation continues for a prolonged period of time and/or deepens in magnitude, our business, results of operation and ability to comply with the covenants under our credit facility could be materially affected and may result in a further deceleration of the number and timing of new restaurant openings. Continued deterioration in customer traffic and/or a reduction in the average amount guests spend in our restaurants will negatively impact our revenues. This will result in sales de-leverage, spreading fixed costs across a lower level of sales, and will, in turn cause downward pressure on our profitability. This could result in further reductions in staff levels, additional asset impairment charges and potential restaurant closures. In addition, the adverse fiscal condition of California and other states where we operate a significant number of restaurants could result in these state governments issuing IOUs rather than tax refunds or employee paychecks, which could affect guest spending patterns in these locations. Future recessionary effects on the Company are unknown at this time and could have a potential material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the government’s plan to stimulate the economy will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the financial markets, increase liquidity and the availability of credit, or result in lower unemployment. The current economic crisis could have a material adverse impact on our landlords or other tenants in shopping centers in which we are located, which in turn could negatively affect our financial results. If the recession continues or increases in severity, our landlords may be unable to obtain financing or remain in good standing under their existing financing arrangements, resulting in failures to pay required construction contributions or satisfy other lease covenants to us. In addition other tenants at shopping centers in which we are located or have executed leases may fail to open or may cease operations. If our landlords fail to satisfy required co-tenancies, such failures may result in us delaying openings or terminating leases in these locations. Also, decreases in total tenant occupancy in shopping centers in which we are located may affect guest traffic at our restaurants. All of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Our growth in revenues and earnings per share depend on strategic capital allocation decisions, including those related to new restaurant openings, the magnitude, timing and form of excess capital returned to shareholders, and a reduction in our debt. Future growth in profits will depend to a substantial extent on our ability to effectively allocate capital. This in turn is predicated on the availability of high quality sites that meet our criteria for new restaurant development, our ability to effectively return capital to shareholders and our ability to reduce our debt. Our new restaurant development can be subject to unforeseen delays due to market conditions, the highly customized nature of our restaurant concepts, and the complex design, construction, and preopening processes for each new location. The lease negotiation and restaurant development timeframes vary by location. The number and timing of new restaurants actually opened during any given period, and their associated contribution to operating week growth for the period, will depend on a number of factors including, but not limited to the identification and availability of high quality locations and acceptable lease terms; the availability of suitable financing to us and our landlords; the financial viability of our landlords; the timing of the delivery of the leased premises to us from our landlords in order to commence build-out construction activities; the ability of us and our landlords to obtain all necessary governmental licenses and permits on a timely basis to construct and operate our restaurants; our ability to manage the construction and development costs of new restaurants, and the availability and/or cost of raw materials; the rectification of any unforeseen engineering or environmental problems with the leased premises; adverse weather during the construction period; and the hiring and training of qualified operating personnel in the local market. We may be unable to appropriately scale our infrastructure in a timely manner. During fiscal 2008, we reduced our infrastructure to adapt to the reduction in comparable restaurant sales and for the reduced number of new restaurant openings planned for the year. We continue to evaluate on an ongoing basis if our infrastructure is at an appropriate level to support our fiscal 2009 operational and development plans. If market conditions improve and we are able to identify enough high quality sites to significantly increase the planned number of new restaurants openings in the future, we may be unable to scale or manage the growth of our corporate and field supervision infrastructure in the short term to appropriately support our operations. Likewise, if sales continue to decline, we may be unable to reduce our infrastructure quickly enough to prevent further sales de-leveraging. Inflation and other conditions may increase our operating expenses. Our profitability is dependent on, among other things, our ability to anticipate and react to changes in the costs of key operating resources, including food and other raw materials, labor, energy and water, insurance (including health, liability and workers compensation), and other supplies and services. In fiscal 2008, we experienced sharp increases in the costs of certain commodities, such as cooking oil and grain products, that we use in our restaurants and in our bakery products, as well as significant increases in utility costs driven by record high oil prices. These increases were unexpected and, even if we had anticipated such sudden cost increases, the costs were in excess of what we could pass on to our restaurant and bakery customers through price increases. As a result, our financial results were adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Our profitability and operating margins are dependent in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food costs. Although we are able to contract for the majority of the food commodities used in our restaurants for periods of up to one year, some of the commodities used in our operations can not be locked in for periods of longer than 30 days. As a result, these commodities can be subject to unforeseen supply and cost fluctuations due to factors such as weather, other agricultural conditions and fuel costs. There can be no assurance that our commodity costs will not fluctuate due to a change in demand patterns, an increase in the cost of key inputs, weather and other market conditions outside of our control. Our suppliers may also be affected by higher costs to produce and transport commodities used in our restaurants and bakery manufacturing facilities, higher minimum wage and benefit costs, and other expenses that they pass through to their customers, which could result in higher costs for goods and services supplied to us. The price of oil has been volatile resulting in fluctuating utility costs. In addition, weather patterns in recent years have resulted in lower than normal levels of rainfall in certain areas that could produce droughts in key states such as California, impacting the price of water. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain our utility costs at levels that do not have a material adverse effect on our operations. Many of our employees are subject to various minimum wage requirements. The federal minimum wage increased to $5.85 in July 2007 and further increased to $6.55 in July 2008. Future federal legislation to increase the minimum wage as well as the tip credit wage we pay to certain staff members receiving guest gratuities is probable. Additionally, many of our employees work in restaurants located in states where the minimum wage is greater than the federal minimum and receive compensation equal to the state’s minimum wage. There may be similar increases implemented in other jurisdictions in which we operate or seek to operate. Minimum wage increases may have a material adverse effect on our labor costs. We retain the financial responsibility for a significant portion of our risks and associated liabilities with respect to workers’ compensation, general liability, employment practices, employee health benefits and other insurable risks through self insurance. Unfavorable fluctuations in market conditions, availability or in our historical trends could significantly increase our self insurance costs and insurance premiums. Failure to satisfy financial covenants and/or repayment requirements under our credit facility could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We have a $300 million revolving credit facility expiring in April 2012 that requires us to maintain certain financial covenants. Our failure to maintain these covenants or have sufficient liquidity to either repay or refinance the outstanding balance at expiration of the credit facility would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this report for additional information concerning our credit facility. Changes in, or any failure to comply with, applicable laws or regulations could adversely affect our business, financial position and results. Various federal and state labor laws and regulations govern our operations and relationships with employees, including minimum wages, breaks, overtime, fringe benefits, safety, working conditions and citizenship requirements. Changes in, or any failure to comply with, these laws and regulations could subject us to fines or legal actions. Settlements or judgments that are not insured or in excess of our coverage limitations could have a material adverse affect on our business. Although we operate our facilities in compliance with BCIS requirements and state requirements, some of our staff members may not meet federal citizenship or residency requirements. This could result in a disruption in our work force, sanctions against us and adverse publicity. Significant government-imposed increases in minimum wages, paid or unpaid leaves of absence and mandated health and/or COBRA benefits, or increased tax reporting, assessment or payment requirements related to our employees who receive gratuities could be detrimental to the profitability of our restaurants and bakery operations. Our business is subject to extensive state and local government regulation in the various jurisdictions in which our restaurants and bakeries are located, including regulations relating to alcoholic beverage control, public health and safety, and food safety. The failure to obtain and/or retain licenses, permits or other regulatory approvals 20 Table of Contents could delay or prevent the opening and/or continued operation of a restaurant in a particular area. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require each of our restaurants to obtain licenses and permits to sell alcoholic beverages on the premises. The failure of a restaurant to obtain or retain its licenses would adversely affect that restaurant’s operations and profitability, and could adversely affect our ability to obtain these licenses elsewhere. We may also be subject to dram shop statutes in certain states, which generally provide a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Even though we are covered by general liability insurance, a settlement or judgment against us under a dram shop statute in excess of liability coverage could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, as a manufacturer and distributor of food products, we are subject to a number of food safety and labeling laws and regulations, including the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. Failure to comply with these and other applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Litigation could have a material adverse impact on our business. We are subject to lawsuits, administrative proceedings and claims that arise in the course of our business. The matters typically involve claims by guests, staff members and others regarding such issues as food borne illness, food safety, premises liability, compliance with wage and hour requirements, work-related injuries, discrimination, harassment and other operational issues common to the foodservice industry. We could be adversely affected by negative publicity and litigation costs resulting from these claims, regardless of their validity. An adverse judgment or settlement that is not insured or is in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We are self-insured, or carry insurance programs with high retention levels, for a significant portion of our risks and associated liabilities with respect to workers’ compensation, general liability, employer’s liability, health benefits and other insurable risks. We accrue liabilities for these programs based on our estimate of the ultimate costs to settle known claims as well as claims that are incurred but not reported. Significant judgment is required to estimate claims that have been incurred but not reported. If actual claims trends, including the severity or frequency of claims, differ from our estimates, our financial results could be negatively impacted. The Internal Revenue Service is currently auditing our tax returns for fiscal years 2003 through 2006 with respect to the deductibility under the provisions of Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m) of certain compensation in excess of $1 million per year paid to certain executive officers resulting from their exercise of stock options later determined to be misdated. Although no final determination has been made, an unfavorable audit could result in additional taxes and penalties owed. It is our position that these options were performance based and met the requirements of Section 162(m) for deductibility. Our success depends substantially on the value of our brands and our reputation for offering guests an unparalleled total experience. We believe we have built a strong reputation for the quality and breadth of our menu items and bakery products, as part of the total experience that guests enjoy in our restaurants. Our brands have been highly rated in annual consumer studies such as Restaurants & Institutions’ annual Choice in Chains survey for which The Cheesecake Factory won the highest honor in fiscal 2008 in our category. We believe we must protect and grow the value of our brands to continue to be successful in the future. Any incident that erodes consumer trust in or affinity for our brands could significantly reduce their value. If consumers perceive or experience a reduction in food quality, service, ambiance or in any way believes we failed to deliver a consistently positive experience, our brand value could suffer. 21 Table of Contents Competition in the restaurant industry in general, and specifically within the upscale casual segment of the restaurant industry, may adversely affect guest traffic at our restaurants. The restaurant industry is highly competitive with respect to price, value and promotions, service, location, and food quality. There are a substantial number of restaurant operations that compete with us for customer traffic, some of which have significantly greater resources to aggressively market to consumers, which could result in our concepts losing market share. Consumers are highly focused on value and if other restaurants are able to promote and deliver a higher degree of value, our guest traffic levels may suffer, impacting revenues. In addition, with improving product offerings at quick-service restaurants and grocery stores, coupled with the present state of the economy, consumers may choose to trade down to these alternatives, which could also negatively affect revenues. Adverse weather conditions could unfavorably affect our restaurant sales. Adverse weather conditions can impact guest traffic at our restaurants, cause the temporary underutilization of outdoor patio seating, and in more severe cases, cause temporary restaurant closures, sometimes for prolonged periods. Outdoor patio seating is available at most of our restaurants and accounts for approximately 20% of our seating capacity. We are investing in marketing, but our marketing programs may not be successful. A significant increase in our marketing efforts began in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 and we expect to continue conducting brand awareness programs and guest initiatives to attract and retain guests. These initiatives may not be successful, resulting in expenses incurred without the benefit of higher revenues. In addition, we may determine in the future that developing and maintaining advertising campaigns may be necessary, which would also increase our operating expenses with no guarantee of the corresponding increase in revenue necessary to offset those higher costs. New information or attitudes regarding diet and health could result in changes in regulations and consumer eating habits that could adversely affect our revenues. Regulations and consumer eating habits may change as a result of new information or attitudes regarding diet and health. These changes may include regulations that impact the ingredients and nutritional content of our menu items and bakery products. For example, a number of states, counties and cities are enacting menu labeling laws requiring multi-unit restaurant operators to make certain nutritional information available to guests or restrict the sales of certain types of ingredients in restaurants. The success of our restaurant operations is dependent, in part, upon our ability to effectively respond to changes in consumer health and disclosure regulations and to adapt our menu offerings to trends in eating habits. If consumer health regulations or consumer eating habits change significantly, we may be required to modify or delete certain menu items. To the extent we are unable to respond with appropriate changes to our menu offerings, it could materially affect customer demand and have an adverse impact on our revenues. Adverse public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming our products as well as negative publicity about us, our restaurants or bakery products, and about others across the food industry supply chain, whether or not accurate, could negatively affect us. Multi-unit restaurant operators and foodservice operations have received more scrutiny from regulators and health organizations in recent years relating to the health effects of consuming certain products. Although our menu provides a range of healthy options and portion sizes, an unfavorable report on the products we use in our menu or bakery items, the size of our portions or the consumption of those items could influence the demand for our offerings. In addition, adverse publicity or news reports, whether or not accurate, of food quality issues, illness, injury, health concerns, or operating issues stemming from a single restaurant, a limited number of restaurants, a single production run of bakery products, restaurants operated by other foodservice providers or generally in the food supply chain 22 Table of Contents could be damaging to the restaurant industry overall and specifically harm our reputation. A decrease in guest traffic as a result of these types of health concerns or negative publicity could materially harm our results of operations. Our inability to successfully and sufficiently raise menu prices could result in a decline in profitability. We utilize menu price increases to help offset cost increases, including increased cost for commodities, minimum wages, employee benefits, insurance arrangements, construction, utilities and other key operating costs. If our selection and amount of menu price increases are not accepted by consumers and reduce guest traffic, or are insufficient to counter increased costs, our financial results could be harmed. Our business and future development could be hurt if we are unable to retain key personnel or have difficulties in recruiting qualified personnel. The success of our business continues to be dependent in critical respects on the contributions of David Overton, our co-founder and current Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), and certain other senior executives of the Company. The loss of the services of the CEO or other senior executives could have a material adverse effect on our business and plans for future development. It is unlikely that we would be able to find a qualified replacement for our CEO quickly, and such replacement would not have the in depth knowledge of our concepts and the criteria needed for their success that our current CEO possesses. While we adopted a succession planning policy in fiscal 2008 that includes both emergency short term and long term planning elements, there is a risk that we may not be able to implement it successfully or timely. We must also continue to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified management and operating personnel, including regional management, general managers and executive kitchen managers. Qualified individuals are historically in short supply and an inability to attract them to our restaurant operations may limit our ability to effectively expand in existing markets and penetrate new markets. Additionally, the ability of these key personnel to maintain consistency in the quality and atmosphere of our restaurants is a critical factor in our success. Any failure to do so may harm the reputation of our concept and adversely affect our operating results. System failure or breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen risks. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and systems against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other catastrophic events, as well as from internal and external security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Any damage or failure of our computer systems or network infrastructure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We employ both internal resources and external auditors to conduct extensive auditing and testing for weaknesses in our systems, controls, firewalls and encryption to reduce the likelihood of any security failures or breaches. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers and auditors, intend to maintain and upgrade our security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, breaches, or attacks, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be successful. In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. A failure of such security measures could negatively affect our financial results. New restaurant openings may negatively impact sales at our existing restaurants. We target high quality, high profile locations for our upscale and highly customized restaurants, and believe that we draw guests from a much larger geographical area compared to most casual dining chain restaurants. The sizes of our restaurant trade areas vary by location, depending on a number of factors such as population density, demographics, retail, office, entertainment and other traffic generators and geography. As a result, the opening of a new restaurant could impact the sales of one or more of our existing restaurants nearby. It is not our 23 Table of Contents intention to open new restaurants that materially cannibalize the sales of our existing restaurants. However, as with most growing retail and restaurant chain operations, there can be no assurance that sales cannibalization will not occur or become more significant in the future as we gradually increase our presence in existing markets over time to maximize our competitive position and financial performance in each market. Seasonality of our business and the timing of new restaurant openings could result in fluctuations in our financial performance from quarter-to-quarter within a fiscal year. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Our restaurant sales are typically higher during the second and third quarters of the fiscal year. Our bakery operation is seasonal to the extent that the fourth quarter’s sales are typically higher due to holiday business and may also significantly vary from quarter-to-quarter due to the timing and/or size of orders from large account bakery customers. As a result of these factors, results of operations for any single quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year. Quarterly results have been, and in the future could continue to be, significantly impacted by the timing of new restaurant openings and their associated preopening costs and operating inefficiencies. Our ability to successfully operate our bakery business will have an impact on our ability to grow our third party bakery sales and profits. Our bakery operations are dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to our ability to obtain and retain large-account customers for our bakery operations and our ability to enter into long-term contracts with those customers at profitable margins; our ability to pass on increases in the key costs of operating our bakery business to our customers in whole or in part; macro economic conditions affecting consumers’ desire and ability to purchase our bakery product offerings: and our current reliance on two major warehouse customers for a substantial percentage of our third party bakery sales. A decrease in bakery sales would have an adverse impact on our financial results. Our failure to establish, maintain and apply adequate internal control over our financial reporting could affect our reported results of operations. In addition, changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards could affect our reported results of operations. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These provisions provide for the identification of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting—a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. While we have not experienced a material weakness in internal controls, there can be no assurance that we will be able to remediate any future material weaknesses in internal controls in a timely manner or maintain all of the controls necessary to remain in compliance. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. Additionally, changes in accounting standards, new accounting pronouncements and interpretations may occur that could adversely affect our previously reported or future financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. Failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance will likely have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. If we fail to meet the market’s expectations for our financial performance, particularly with respect to comparable restaurant sales, revenues, operating margins and earnings per share, a decline in the market price of The Cheesecake Factory Incorporated common stock will likely occur. The market price of our common stock may also be affected by stock market conditions, including price and trading fluctuations on the NASDAQ Stock Market, the NYSE or other exchanges. These conditions may result in (i) volatility in the level of, and fluctuations in, the market prices of stocks generally and, in turn, our common stock and (ii) sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, in each case that could be unrelated or disproportionate to changes in our operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market prices of our common stock. 24 Table of Contents There may be future sales or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. Our board of directors is authorized to issue additional shares of common stock and additional classes or series of preferred stock without any action on the part of the stockholders. The board of directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over the common stock with respect to dividends or upon the liquidation, or winding up of our business and other terms. If we issue preferred shares in the future that have a preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred shares with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of our common stockholders or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 