ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risk factors presented below may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial position and/or cash flows. In addition to the risk factors presented below, changes in general economic conditions, including national, regional and local economic conditions; consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns; demographic trends; employment levels; and other factors that may affect consumer behavior and spending for restaurant dining occasions in general, may have a material impact on us. Our actual results could vary significantly from any results expressed or implied by forward-looking statements depending on a variety of factors, including the risks and uncertainties described below. Other sections of this report may identify additional factors that could materially and adversely impact our business, operating results, financial position and/or cash flows. We operate in a competitive and dynamic environment and new risk factors may emerge at any time. It is not possible for us to predict the impact these factors could have on us or the extent to which any one factor, or combination of factors, may adversely affect our results. The global economic crisis adversely impacted our business and financial results in fiscal 2008 and 2009. Continuing effects from the recession could materially affect us in fiscal 2010 and beyond. The restaurant industry depends upon consumer discretionary spending. The global economic crisis reduced consumer confidence to historic lows in 2009 and impacted consumers’ ability and/or willingness to spend discretionary dollars. National unemployment rates exceeding 10% (and higher in certain localities) along with a growing number of home foreclosures, significantly reduced home values, investment losses in the financial markets, personal bankruptcies and reduced access to credit further eroded consumer discretionary spending resulting in lower levels of guest traffic in our restaurants. Leading economic indicators, such as unemployment and consumer confidence, remain volatile and may not show meaningful improvement in fiscal 2010. If the weak economy continues for a prolonged period of time or worsens, our business, operating results, financial position and cash flows could be materially affected. During fiscal 2008 and 2009, many landlords delayed or cancelled new development projects, as well as extensions and renovations of existing projects due to the instability in the credit market and the decline in consumer spending, reducing the number of premier sites available that we would consider for our restaurants. In addition, the economic environment may result in continued negative comparable restaurant sales driven by a further deterioration in guest traffic and/or a reduction in the average amount guests spend in our restaurants. If comparable restaurant sales remain negative, it will result in sales de-leverage (i.e., spreading fixed costs across a lower level of sales) which will, in turn, cause downward pressure on our profitability. Further reductions in staff levels, additional asset impairment charges and potential restaurant closures could result from prolonged negative comparable restaurant sales. 14 Table of Contents The lack of available credit, along with the macroeconomic factors previously discussed, has had an adverse impact on certain of our landlords and other tenants in retail centers in which we are located. If these issues continue or worsen, it could further materially impact these parties, which in turn could negatively affect our financial results. If credit accessibility fails to improve in fiscal 2010 and beyond, our landlords may be unable to obtain financing or remain in good standing under their existing financing arrangements, resulting in their inability to provide construction contributions or failure to satisfy other lease covenants to us. Several of our landlords have filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, and we have received notices of intended foreclosures from lenders to our landlords on other projects. Approximately eleven percent of our restaurants are in locations that are owned, managed or controlled by landlords that have filed for bankruptcy protection. As of the date of filing of this report, no leases have been rejected in the bankruptcy proceedings and we have not received any indications that our occupancy rights will be disturbed by any of these proceedings. However, if these landlords (and others who have not filed for bankruptcy protection to date) are unable to obtain sufficient credit to continue to properly manage their retail sites, we may experience a drop in the level of quality of such retail centers. While we currently do not anticipate that these matters concerning our landlords will have a material adverse effect on our operations or results, we can provide no assurance that this will be the case in the future. In addition, several other tenants at retail centers in which we are located or have executed leases have ceased operations or, in some cases, have failed to open after committing to do so. If these failures continue, they can result in a reduction of guest traffic at retail centers in which we are located, that in turn, may contribute to a lower number of guest visits at our restaurants. Additionally, if our landlords fail to satisfy required co-tenancies in our leases, such failures may result in us delaying openings or terminating leases in these locations. All of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Future growth in our revenues, profitability and earnings per share depends heavily on improving comparable restaurant sales and selecting high quality sites for new restaurant openings. Future growth in revenues and profits will depend on our ability to grow comparable restaurant sales and leverage the comparable sales gains by efficiently operating our restaurants. Comparable restaurant sales changes are composed of guest traffic increases or decreases, menu pricing and menu mix shifts. Changes in guest traffic levels can be impacted by a variety of factors including macroeconomic conditions, competition from other restaurants (both in the upscale casual dining segment and in other segments of the restaurant industry), consumer perception of our concepts’ offerings in terms of quality, price, value and service, and how guest experiences affect their desire to return to our restaurants. If we are unable to increase the guest traffic levels in our restaurants, it will likely hinder our ability to grow our comparable restaurant sales. We utilize menu price increases to help offset inflation of key operating costs. If the amount of the menu price increases that we implement are not accepted by guests, resulting in reduced guest traffic, or are insufficient to absorb or offset increased costs, it could reduce our growth in comparable restaurant sales. Menu mix was negatively impacted in fiscal 2008 and 2009 as a result of guests managing their checks and choosing not to order items such as desserts and beverages (both alcoholic and non-alcoholic). If menu mix continues to be negative, it could serve to offset some of the impact of our menu price increases thereby lowering our potential for comparable restaurant sales growth. Future revenue and profitability growth also will depend on the availability of high quality sites that meet our criteria for new restaurant development and our ability to select sites that will continue to drive high levels of sales per square feet. Our new restaurant development can be subject to unforeseen delays due to market conditions, the highly customized nature of our restaurant concepts, and the complex design, construction, and preopening processes for each new location. The lease negotiation and restaurant development timeframes also vary by location. Due to continued instability in the credit market and a decline in consumer spending, many landlords have delayed or cancelled new projects or extension and/or renovations of existing projects. Such actions may limit our choices to consider for growth opportunities. The number and timing of new restaurants actually opened during any given period, and their associated contribution to operating week growth for the period, will depend on a number of factors including, but not limited to: · the identification and availability of high quality locations and acceptable lease terms; · the availability of suitable financing for our landlords; · the financial viability of our landlords; · the timing of the delivery of the leased premises to us from our landlords in order to commence build-out construction activities; 15 Table of Contents · the ability of our landlords and us to obtain all necessary governmental licenses and permits on a timely basis to construct and operate our restaurants; · our ability to successfully manage the design, construction and preopening processes for each restaurants, and the availability and/or cost of raw materials; · any unforeseen engineering or environmental problems with the leased premises; · adverse weather during the construction period; and · the availability of qualified operating personnel in the local market. If we are unable to develop new restaurants, our ability to increase our revenues and profitability may be harmed. Increases in the costs to operate our business may have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Our profitability and operating margins depend on, among other things, our ability to anticipate and react to changes in the costs of key, operating resources, including food and other raw materials, labor, energy and water, insurance (including health, liability and workers’ compensation), and other supplies and services. Although we are able to contract for the majority of the food commodities used in our restaurants for periods of up to one year, some of the commodities used in our operations cannot be locked in for periods of longer than 30 days or at all. As a result, these commodities can be subject to unforeseen supply and cost fluctuations due to factors such as a change in demand patterns, an increase in the cost of key inputs, fuel costs, weather and other market conditions outside of our control. Our suppliers also may be affected by higher costs to produce and transport commodities used in our restaurants and bakery manufacturing facilities, higher minimum wage and benefit costs, and other expenses that they pass through to their customers, which could result in higher costs for goods and services supplied to us. In addition, weather patterns in recent years have resulted in lower than normal levels of rainfall in certain areas that could produce droughts in key states such as California, impacting the price of water and the corresponding prices of commodities grown in states facing drought conditions. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain our utility and commodity costs at levels that do not have a material adverse effect on our operations. Many of our staff members are subject to various minimum wage requirements. The federal minimum wage increased from $6.55 in July 2008 to $7.25 in July 2009. Many of our employees work in restaurants located in states, including California, where the minimum wage is higher than the federal minimum and receive compensation equal to the state’s minimum wage. There may be minimum wage increases in excess of federal minimum wage implemented in jurisdictions in which we operate or seek to operate. Minimum wage increases may have a material adverse effect on our labor costs. We retain the financial responsibility for a significant portion of our risks and associated liabilities with respect to workers’ compensation, general liability, employment practices, employee health benefits and other insurable risks through our self insurance programs. Unfavorable fluctuations in market conditions, availability of such insurance or changes in state and/or federal regulations could significantly increase our self insurance costs and insurance premiums. In addition, employment-related litigation continues to increase at both the state and federal levels, particularly with respect to claims styled as class action lawsuits which are more costly to defend. Also, some employment related claims in the area of wage and hour disputes are not insurable risks. Despite our efforts to control costs while still providing competitive health care benefits to our staff members, significant increases in health care costs continue to occur, and we can provide no assurance that our cost containment efforts in this area will be effective. Further, we are unable to predict the impact of pending federal health care legislation on our health care benefit costs, and significant increases in such costs could adversely impact our operating results. In addition, several localities, including San Francisco, have adopted or are considering adoption of health care related legislation affecting employers. There is no assurance that we will be able to absorb and/or pass through the costs of such legislation in a manner that will not adversely impact our operating results. Competition in the restaurant industry in general, and specifically within the upscale, casual segment of the restaurant industry, may adversely affect guest traffic at our restaurants. The restaurant industry is highly competitive with respect to price, value and promotions, service, location, and food quality. There are a substantial number of restaurant operations that compete with us for customer traffic, some of which have significantly greater resources to aggressively market to consumers, which could result in our concepts losing market share. Consumers are highly focused on value and if other restaurants are able to promote and deliver a higher degree of value through heavy discounting or other methods, our guest traffic levels may suffer which would adversely impact our revenues and profitability. In addition, with improving product offerings at fast casual restaurants, quick-service restaurants and grocery stores, consumers may choose to trade down to these alternatives, which could also negatively affect our financial results. Even as the economy recovers, such patterns of downgrading selection may continue among consumers, which could reduce guest traffic at our restaurants. 16 Table of Contents Negative publicity about us, our restaurants or bakery products, and about others across the food industry supply chain, whether or not accurate, could harm our business. Adverse publicity or news reports, whether or not accurate, regarding food quality issues, illness, injury, health concerns, government or industry findings concerning food products served by us, or operating issues stemming from a single restaurant, a limited number of our restaurants, a single production run of our bakery products, restaurants operated by other foodservice providers or generally in the food supply chain, could be damaging to the restaurant industry overall and specifically harm our brand and reputation. A decrease in guest traffic as a result of these types of health concerns or negative publicity could materially harm our results of operations. Our success depends substantially on the value of our brands and our reputation for offering guests a unique total experience. We believe we have built a strong reputation for the quality and breadth of our menu items and bakery products, as part of the total experience that guests enjoy in our restaurants. We believe we must protect and grow the value of our brands to continue to be successful in the future. Any incident that erodes consumer trust in or affinity for our brands could significantly reduce their value. If consumers perceive or experience a reduction in food quality, service or ambiance, or in any way believe we failed to deliver a consistently positive experience, our brand value could suffer. Our failure to successfully operate our bakery business would have a material adverse impact on our third party bakery sales and profits. Our bakery operations depend on a number of factors including, but not limited to: · our ability to obtain and retain large-account customers; · our ability to pass on increases in the key costs of operations to our customers, in whole or in part; · macroeconomic conditions affecting consumers’ desire and ability to purchase our bakery product offerings; and · our current reliance on three major warehouse customers for a substantial percentage of our third party bakery sales A decrease in sales and/or profitability from our bakery operations would have an adverse impact on our financial results. New restaurant openings may negatively impact sales at our existing restaurants. We target high quality, high profile locations for our upscale and highly customized restaurants, and believe that we draw guests from a much larger geographical area compared to most casual dining chain restaurants. The sizes of our restaurant trade areas vary by location, depending on a number of factors such as population density; demographics; retail, business, entertainment and other traffic generators; and geography. As a result, the opening of a new restaurant could impact the sales of one or more of our existing restaurants nearby. It is not our intention to open new restaurants that materially cannibalize the sales of our existing restaurants. However, as with most growing retail and restaurant chain operations, there can be no assurance that sales cannibalization will not occur or become more significant in the future as we gradually increase our presence in existing markets over time to maximize our competitive position and financial performance in each market. We are investing in marketing, but our marketing programs may not be successful. A significant increase in our marketing efforts began in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 and has continued through fiscal 2009 using a variety of media, including social media venues. We expect to continue to conduct brand awareness programs and guest initiatives to attract and retain guests. These initiatives may not be successful, resulting in expenses incurred without the benefit of higher revenues. In addition, we may determine in the future that developing and maintaining national and/or regional advertising campaigns may be necessary, which would also increase our operating expenses with no guarantee of the corresponding increase in revenue necessary to offset those higher costs. Our business and future development could be harmed if we are unable to retain key personnel or have difficulties in recruiting qualified personnel. The success of our business continues to depend in critical respects on the contributions of David Overton, our co-founder and Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), and certain other senior executives of the Company. The loss of the services of our CEO or other senior executives could have a material adverse effect on our business and plans for future development. It is unlikely that we would be able to find a qualified replacement for our CEO quickly, and such replacement would not have the in-depth knowledge of our concepts and the criteria needed for their success that our current CEO possesses. While we adopted a 17 Table of Contents succession planning policy in fiscal 2008 that includes both emergency short-term and long-term planning elements, there is a risk that we may not be able to implement such a succession planning policy successfully or in a timely manner. In addition to our senior executives, we must also continue to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified management and operating personnel, including regional management, general managers and executive kitchen managers. Qualified individuals have historically been in short supply and an inability to attract them to our restaurant operations would limit our ability to effectively expand in existing markets and penetrate new markets. Additionally, the ability of these key personnel to maintain consistency in the service, hospitality, quality and atmosphere of our restaurants is a critical factor in our success. Any failure to do so may harm the reputation of our concepts and adversely affect our operating results. Competition for qualified individuals could also increase our labor costs related to cash and other compensation, including equity awards. If we continue to make equity grants at similar levels as in the past, our 2001 Equity Incentive Plan only contains authorized shares sufficient to permit granting equity through the first quarter of fiscal 2011. Our ability to offer equity awards in the future may be limited or nonexistent if our shareholders do not approve a new equity incentive plan at our 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Our ability to attract and retain qualified management and operating personnel may be harmed if we are unable to offer competitive cash and other compensation, including equity awards. We may be unable to appropriately scale our infrastructure in a timely manner. During fiscal 2008 and 2009, we reduced our infrastructure to adapt to the reduction in comparable restaurant sales and for the reduced number of new restaurant openings planned for those years. We continue to evaluate the appropriate level of our infrastructure to support our fiscal 2010 operational and development plans. If market conditions improve and we are able to identify enough high quality sites to significantly increase the planned number of new restaurant openings in the future, we may be unable to scale or manage the growth of our corporate and field supervision infrastructure in the short term to appropriately support our operations. Likewise, if sales decline, we may be unable to reduce our infrastructure quickly enough to prevent further sales deleveraging which would adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in, or any failure to comply with, applicable laws or regulations at the federal, state or local level could adversely affect our business, financial position and results. Various federal and state labor laws and regulations govern our operations and relationships with our staff members, including minimum wages, breaks, overtime, fringe benefits, safety, working conditions and citizenship requirements. Changes in, or any failure to comply with, these laws and regulations could subject us to fines or legal actions. Settlements or judgments that are not insured or in excess of our coverage limitations could have a material adverse affect on our business. Although we operate our facilities in compliance with federal and state requirements, some of our staff members may not meet federal citizenship or residency requirements. This could result in a disruption in our work force, sanctions against us and adverse publicity. Significant government-imposed increases in minimum wages, paid or unpaid leaves of absence and mandated health and/or COBRA benefits, or increased tax reporting, assessment or payment requirements related to our employees who receive gratuities, or changes in interpretations of existing law concerning meal and rest period breaks currently under consideration by the Supreme Court in the State of California, could be detrimental to the profitability of our restaurants and bakery operations. Our business is subject to extensive state and local government regulation in the various jurisdictions in which our restaurants and bakeries are located, including regulations relating to alcoholic beverage control, public health and safety, environmental hazards and food safety. The failure to obtain and/or retain licenses, permits or other regulatory approvals could delay or prevent the opening and/or continued operation of a restaurant in a particular area. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require each of our restaurants to obtain licenses and permits to sell alcoholic beverages on the premises. The failure of a restaurant to obtain or retain its licenses would adversely affect that restaurant’s operations and profitability, and could adversely affect our ability to obtain these licenses elsewhere. We may also be subject to dram shop statutes in certain states, which generally provide a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Even though we are covered by general liability insurance, a settlement or judgment against us under a dram shop statute in excess of liability coverage could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, as a manufacturer and distributor of food products, we are subject to a number of food safety and labeling laws and regulations, including the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. Failure to comply with these and other applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Information technology system failures or breaches of our network security could interrupt our operations and subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities. 18 Table of Contents We rely heavily on our computer systems and network infrastructure across our operations including, but not limited to, point-of-sale processing at our restaurants, and the systems we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen risks. Our operations depend upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and systems against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other catastrophic events, as well as from internal and external security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. In addition, our corporate support center is located in California, in an area prone to natural disasters such as earthquakes and wildfires. Any damage or failure of our computer systems or network infrastructure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We employ both internal resources and external consultants to conduct extensive auditing and testing for weaknesses in our systems, controls, firewalls and encryption to reduce the likelihood of any security failures or breaches. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers and consultants, intend to maintain and upgrade our security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, breaches, or attacks, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be successful. In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. A failure of such security measures could harm our reputation and financial results, as well as subject us to litigation or actions by regulatory authorities. Our inability or failure to execute on a comprehensive business continuity plan following a major natural or manmade disaster, including terrorism, at our corporate facility could materially adversely impact our business Most of our corporate systems and processes and corporate support for our restaurant operations are centralized at one California location with the exception of our construction and design department. Although we have disaster recovery procedures in place to address most events of a crisis nature, including back up and off site location for recovery of electronic and other forms of data and information, we are currently developing a comprehensive business continuity plan specifically addressing a variety of potential disasters, and attendant recovery procedures on both a corporate-wide and departmental basis. If we are unable to fully develop or implement such plan, we may experience delays in recovery of data, inability to perform vital corporate functions, tardiness in required reporting and compliance, failures to adequately support field operations, and other breakdowns in normal operating procedures that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation, and exposure to administrative and other legal claims. Litigation could have a material adverse impact on our business. We are subject to lawsuits, administrative proceedings and claims that arise in the regular course of business. The matters typically involve claims by guests, staff members and others regarding issues such as food borne illness, food safety, premises liability, compliance with wage and hour requirements, work-related injuries, discrimination, harassment, disability and other operational issues common to the foodservice industry. We could be adversely affected by negative publicity and litigation costs resulting from these claims, regardless of their validity. Significant legal fees and costs in complex class action litigation or an adverse judgment or settlement that is not insured or is in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We are self-insured, or carry insurance programs with high retention levels, for a significant portion of our risks and associated liabilities with respect to workers’ compensation, general liability, employer’s liability, health benefits and other insurable risks. We accrue liabilities for these programs based on our estimate of the ultimate costs to settle known claims as well as claims that are incurred but not reported. Significant judgment is required to estimate claims that have been incurred but not reported. If actual claims trends, including the severity or frequency of claims, differ from our estimates, our financial results could be negatively impacted. New information or attitudes regarding diet and health could result in changes in regulations and consumer eating habits that could adversely affect our revenues. Regulations and consumer eating habits may change as a result of new information, increases in disclosure requirements or attitudes regarding diet and health. These changes may include regulations that impact the ingredients and nutritional content of our menu items and bakery products. In addition, a number of states, counties and cities have enacted menu labeling laws requiring multi-unit restaurant operators to make certain nutritional information available to guests or have enacted legislation prohibiting the sales of certain types of ingredients in restaurants. Efforts have been made to introduce similar legislation at the federal level. The success of our restaurant operations depends, in part, upon our ability to effectively respond to changes in consumer health and disclosure regulations and to adapt our menu offerings to trends in eating habits. If consumer health regulations or consumer eating habits change significantly, we may be required to modify or discontinue certain menu items. To the extent we are unable to respond with appropriate changes to our menu offerings, it could materially affect guest demand for our concepts and have an adverse impact on our revenues. 19 Table of Contents Seasonality of our business and the timing of new restaurant openings could result in fluctuations in our financial performance from quarter-to-quarter within a fiscal year. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Our restaurant sales are typically higher during the second and third quarters of the fiscal year. Our bakery operation is seasonal to the extent that the fourth quarter’s sales are typically higher due to holiday business and may also significantly vary from quarter-to-quarter due to the timing and/or size of orders from large account bakery customers. As a result of these factors, results of operations for any single quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year. Quarterly results have been, and in the future could continue to be, significantly impacted by the timing of new restaurant openings, including associated preopening costs and operating inefficiencies, as well as macroeconomic factors. Adverse weather conditions could unfavorably affect our restaurant sales. Adverse weather conditions can impact guest traffic at our restaurants, cause the temporary underutilization of outdoor patio seating, and, in more severe cases, cause temporary restaurant closures, sometimes for prolonged periods. Outdoor patio seating is available at most of our restaurants and accounts for approximately 20% of our seating capacity. Our inability to fully utilize our restaurants’ seating capacity as planned may negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. Our failure to establish, maintain and apply adequate internal control over our financial reporting could affect our reported results of operations. In addition, changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards could affect our reported results of operations. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These provisions provide for the identification of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting—a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted (“GAAP”) in the United States of America. While we have not experienced a material weakness in internal controls, there can be no assurance that we will be able to remediate any future material weaknesses in internal controls in a timely manner or maintain all of the controls necessary to remain in compliance. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. Additionally, changes in accounting standards or new accounting pronouncements and interpretations may occur that could adversely affect our previously reported or future financial position or results of operations. Our federal, state and local tax returns may, from time to time, be selected for audit by taxing authorities, which may result in tax assessments or penalties that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial position. We are subject to federal, state and local taxes. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the IRS or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken on our tax returns, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. If material, payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. The Internal Revenue Service issued a Notice of Proposed Adjustment concerning our tax returns filed for fiscal years 2003 through 2006 with respect to the deductibility under the provisions of Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m) of certain compensation in excess of $1 million per year paid to “covered employees” (as defined in such section) resulting from their exercise of stock options later determined to be misdated disallowing the deduction of approximately $5.1 million of compensation expense. It is our position that such compensation qualifies as performance-based compensation that is not subject to the limitations on deductibility under Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m). We received a Statutory Notice of Deficiency from the IRS for fiscal 2005 only and have petitioned for redetermination of this notice with the United States Tax Court. With respect to all other tax years in question, we intend to continue discussions with the IRS in an effort to reach a favorable resolution and, if such resolution is not reached, to pursue all available administrative and legal remedies. We have reserved $2.4 million for estimated taxes and interest due through December 29, 2009. This reserve does not include penalties. Failure to satisfy financial covenants and/or repayment requirements under our credit facility could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We have a five-year revolving credit facility (“Facility”) with a maximum available borrowing commitment of $300 million, which expires in April 2012. The Facility requires us to maintain certain financial covenants. While we have not experienced a failure to maintain these covenants in the past, any future failure to maintain these covenants or have sufficient liquidity to either repay or refinance the outstanding balance at expiration of the Facility would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. See 20 Table of Contents Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information concerning our Facility. Failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance will likely have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. If we fail to meet the market’s expectations for our financial performance, particularly with respect to comparable restaurant sales, revenues, operating margins and diluted earnings per share, a decline in the market price of The Cheesecake Factory Incorporated common stock will likely occur. The market price of our common stock may also be affected by general stock market conditions, including the performance of broad-based stock market indices and exchanges. These conditions may result in stock market volatility, which in turn would likely impact the price of our common stock, as well as a sell-off in our common stock, both of which could be unrelated or disproportionate to changes in our operating performance. There may be future sales or other dilution of our equity which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue additional shares of common stock and additional classes or series of preferred stock without any action on the part of the stockholders. The Board of Directors also has the discretion, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over the common stock with respect to dividends or upon the liquidation, or winding up of our business and other terms. If we issue preferred shares in the future that have a preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred shares with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of our common stockholders or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. We have a shareholder rights plan, or poison pill, which could affect the price of our common stock and make it more difficult for a potential acquirer to purchase a large portion of our securities, to initiate a tender offer or a proxy contest, or to acquire us. In August 2008, our Board of Directors extended a shareholder rights plan, commonly known as a “poison pill,” for a period to end in August 2018. The poison pill may discourage, delay, or prevent a third party from acquiring a large portion of our securities, initiating a tender offer or proxy contest, or acquiring us through an acquisition, merger, or similar transaction. Such an acquirer could be prevented from consummating one of these transactions even if our shareholders might receive a premium for their shares over then-current market prices. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 