ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves risks and uncertainties. In addition to the information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other filings that we make with the SEC, you should carefully read and consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially harm our business, operating results, financial position or cash flows (“financial performance”). In addition, our actual results could vary materially from any results expressed or implied by forward-looking statements contained in this report and in any of our other filings with the SEC and other communications by us, both written and oral, depending on a variety of factors, including the risks and uncertainties described below. It is not possible for us to predict the impact these factors could have on us or the extent to which any one factor, or combination of factors, may adversely affect our results. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations The global economic crisis continues to negatively impact consumer discretionary spending. A prolonged economic recovery or continued uncertainty with respect to governmental responses to domestic and international fiscal concerns could result in additional declines in consumer discretionary spending which could materially affect our future financial performance. Dining out is a discretionary expense. Consumer confidence continues to suffer after experiencing historic lows, which impacted consumers’ ability and/or desire to spend discretionary dollars as a result of job losses, home foreclosures, significantly reduced home values, volatility of investments in the financial markets, personal bankruptcies and reduced access to credit. Leading economic indicators such as employment and consumer confidence remain challenged and may not show meaningful improvement in fiscal 2013. In addition, current domestic and international fiscal concerns threaten to further weaken the U.S. economic recovery. If the current pace of the economic recovery continues for a prolonged period of time or returns to the negative trends of prior years, our business and results of operations could be materially affected. Future growth in our revenues, profitability and earnings per share (EPS) depends heavily on improving our comparable restaurant sales and leveraging those sales gains through effective business operations. Future growth in our revenues, profits and EPS is highly dependent on our ability to grow comparable restaurant sales and leverage those sales gains by operating our business efficiently. Changes in comparable restaurant sales occur as a result of (i) guest traffic increases or decreases, (ii) menu price increases, and (iii) menu mix shifts. Decreases in comparable restaurant sales spread fixed costs across a lower level of sales, which may, in turn, cause downward pressure on our profitability. If we are unable to increase guest traffic in our restaurants, our ability to grow our comparable restaurant sales will be hindered. Changes in guest traffic can be impacted by a variety of factors, including macroeconomic conditions and changes in customer discretionary spending, competition from other restaurants (both in the upscale casual dining segment and in other segments of the restaurant industry), consumer perception of our concepts’ offerings in terms of quality, price, value and service, changes in consumer eating habits (such as trends toward eating fewer calories and less salt and fats), weather patterns, and how guest experiences affect their desire to return to our restaurants. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in achieving increases in guest traffic. We utilize menu price increases to help offset inflation of key operating costs. If our menu price increases are not accepted by guests, resulting in reduced guest traffic, it could reduce our growth in comparable restaurant sales and negatively affect our profitability. If our menu price increases are insufficient to absorb or offset increased costs, it could negatively affect our financial performance. In addition, menu mix can be negatively impacted as a result of guests managing their checks. If menu mix is unfavorable, it could offset some of the impact of our menu price increases, thereby reducing our comparable restaurant sales growth. Our success depends substantially on the value of our brands and our reputation for offering guests a unique total experience. We believe we have built a strong reputation for the quality and breadth of our menu items and bakery products, as part of the total experience that guests enjoy in our restaurants. We believe we must protect and grow the global value of our brands to continue to be successful in the future. Any incident that erodes consumer trust in or affinity for our brands could be harmful to us. If consumers perceive or experience a reduction in food quality, service or ambiance, or in any way believe we failed to deliver a consistently positive experience, including in restaurants operated by our international licensees, our brand value could suffer. Increases in food costs, labor, and other supplies and services may have a material adverse impact on our financial performance. Our operating margins depend on, among other things, our ability to anticipate and react to changes in the costs of key operating resources, including food, labor, utilities and other supplies and services. We attempt to negotiate short-term and long-term agreements for our principal commodity, supply and equipment requirements, depending on market conditions and expected demand. However, we are currently unable to contract for extended periods of time for certain of our commodities. Consequently, these commodities may be subject to unforeseen supply and cost fluctuations due to factors such as changes in demand patterns, increases in the cost of key inputs, fuel costs, weather (such as recent severe drought conditions) and other market conditions outside of our control. Dairy costs can also fluctuate significantly due to government regulation. Raw materials that we may purchase on the international market are subject to fluctuations in both the value of the U.S. dollar and increases in global demand. Our suppliers also may incur higher costs to produce and transport commodities used in our restaurants and bakery manufacturing facilities, higher minimum wage and benefit costs, and other expenses that they pass through to us, which could result in higher costs for goods and services supplied to us. 14 Table of Contents Increases in minimum wage, health care and other benefits may have a material adverse effect on our labor costs. We operate in many states, including California, where the minimum wage is higher than the federal minimum, and in such states our staff members receive minimum compensation equal to the state’s minimum wage. While we have been able to partially offset increases in the costs of key operating resources by gradually raising prices for our menu items and bakery products, coupled with more efficient purchasing practices, productivity improvements and greater economies of scale, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to do so in the future. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to increases in these costs, our financial results may be materially impacted. Competition in the restaurant industry in general, and specifically within the upscale casual segment of the restaurant industry, may adversely affect guest traffic at our restaurants. The restaurant industry is highly competitive with respect to menu and food quality, service, access to qualified operations personnel, location, décor and value. There are a number of other restaurant operators that compete with us for guest traffic, some of which have significantly greater resources to market aggressively to consumers, which could result in our concepts losing market share. We believe that many consumers remain focused on value, and if other restaurant operators are able to promote and deliver a higher degree of perceived value through heavy discounting or other methods, our guest traffic levels may decline, which would adversely impact our revenues and financial performance. In addition, with the increased variety of product offerings at fast casual restaurants, quick-service restaurants and grocery stores, consumers may choose to trade down to these alternatives, which could also negatively affect our financial performance. Our ability to secure an adequate number of high quality sites for future restaurant openings could affect our ability to achieve our revenue and EPS growth targets. Our future revenue and EPS growth depend on the availability and selection of high quality sites that meet our criteria for new restaurants operated by us. Our new restaurant development may be subject to unforeseen delays due to market conditions, the highly customized nature of our restaurant concepts, and the complex design, construction, and preopening processes for each new location. The lease negotiation and restaurant development timeframes also vary by location. Due to a slow economic recovery, many landlords continue to delay new projects or extensions and/or renovations of existing projects. In addition, competition for available premier restaurant locations continues to increase. The number and timing of new restaurants opened during any given period, and their associated contribution to operating week growth for the period, will depend on a number of factors including, but not limited to: · the identification and availability of high quality locations and acceptable lease terms; · the availability of suitable financing for our landlords; · the financial viability of our landlords; · the timing of the delivery of the leased premises to us from our landlords in order to commence build-out construction activities; · the ability of our landlords and us to obtain all necessary governmental licenses and permits on a timely basis to construct and operate our restaurants; · our ability to successfully manage the design, construction and preopening processes for each restaurant, and the availability and/or cost of raw materials and labor; · any unforeseen engineering or environmental problems with the leased premises; · adverse weather during the construction period; and · the availability of qualified operating personnel in the local market. Our stock price will be negatively affected if we are unable to open an adequate number of restaurants to support our financial growth and execute on our strategic plan. If we are unable to renew our restaurant leases on similar terms and conditions, or at all, or optimize the locations of our restaurants in certain trade areas, our business and financial performance could be harmed. We lease all of our restaurant premises and plan to continue to do so in the future. We are entering into a period in which many of our initial lease terms are expiring. While many of our earlier leases have five to ten year renewal options, several do not. We would incur additional costs to operate our restaurants, including increased rent and other costs related to our occupancy of the leased premises, and costs for the relocation and development of a replacement restaurant if we were not able to renew a lease on favorable terms in a desirable location. In addition, we may elect to terminate certain leases prior to their expiration dates in order to optimize our performance in certain trade areas. However, we may be unable to negotiate favorable terms for such early terminations. Additional costs related to the leasing and development of our restaurants could negatively affect our business and financial performance. 15 Table of Contents Our business and future development could be harmed if we are unable to retain, or effectively respond to a loss of, key executives. The success of our business continues to depend in critical respects on the contributions of David Overton, our co-founder, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and other senior executives of the Company. The loss of the services of Mr. Overton or other senior executives could have a material adverse effect on our business and plans for future development. We adopted a succession plan that includes both emergency short-term and long-term planning elements to allow us to successfully continue operations should any of our senior management team become unavailable to us. However, there is a risk that we may not be able to implement the succession plan successfully or in a timely manner in all situations. Our ability to effectively grow our business and revenues, including executing on our plans for international expansion, depends on our ability to successfully recruit and retain qualified restaurant management and operating personnel in an increasingly competitive market. In addition to our senior executives, we must continue to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified management and operating personnel to support both our domestic and international operations. Qualified individuals historically have been in short supply and an inability to attract them to our restaurant operations would limit our ability to expand our concepts effectively. The ability of these key personnel to maintain consistency in the service, hospitality, quality and atmosphere of our restaurants is a critical factor in our success. In addition, we continue to require the services of our senior management and operating personnel to support our international expansion efforts. If we are unable to recruit and train managers who are willing and able to work overseas while adequately maintaining sufficient numbers of managers for our company-operated locations, the quality of our operations may suffer and the reputation of our brand may be harmed. This may also hinder our ability to effectively grow our business, including our international expansion, which may adversely affect our financial performance. If we are unable to offer our management personnel long-term equity incentive compensation as part of their total compensation package, we may have difficulty retaining such personnel, which would adversely affect our operations and financial performance. As part of a competitive compensation package, we historically granted equity awards to key staff members, including our executives, our general managers and the executive kitchen managers who run our restaurants. From time to time, we asked our shareholders to approve additional shares in our equity compensation plan to allow us to continue to grant equity awards as part of our compensation packages. Shareholder advisory groups utilize guidelines to issue voting recommendations intended to influence shareholder votes regarding approval of proxy proposals. If we are unable to meet the formulae required to obtain favorable recommendations or unable to get shareholder support for our share increase proposals, our ability to obtain an increase in shares in our equity compensation plan or adopt a new equity plan may be adversely affected. If we are unable to grant equity compensation awards at a competitive level, we would need to offer equally compelling alternatives to supplement our compensation, including long-term cash compensation plans, or to significantly increase short-term cash compensation, in order to continue to attract and retain key personnel. If we were required to use these alternatives to long-term equity awards, our compensation costs could increase, which would adversely affect our financial performance. If we are unable to effectively grow sales or reduce costs over time at certain of our locations, we may be required to record additional impairment charges and/or decide to discontinue operations of these restaurants, which could negatively affect our financial performance. We assess the potential impairment of our long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets or asset group may not be recoverable. Factors considered include, but are not limited to, significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business, and significant negative industry or economic trends. We regularly review any restaurants that are cash flow negative for the previous four quarters to determine if impairment testing is warranted. (See “Impairment of Long-Lived Assets” in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our impairment assessments.) At any given time, we may be monitoring a small number of locations, and future impairment charges and/or closures may occur if individual restaurant performance does not improve, which could negatively impact our financial performance. 16 Table of Contents Negative publicity about us, our restaurants or bakery products and about other businesses across the food industry supply chain, including third parties we may use to procure materials used in our business, whether or not accurate, could harm our business and financial performance. We dedicate substantial resources to ensuring the safety and quality of the food we serve to our guests. Nevertheless, we face food safety risks, including the risk of food-borne illness, that are common both in the restaurant industry and the food supply chain and that cannot be completely eliminated. Adverse publicity or news reports, whether or not accurate, regarding food quality or safety issues, illness, injury, health concerns, government or industry findings concerning food products served by us, or issues stemming from the operation of our restaurants or bakery, restaurants operated by other foodservice providers, third parties we may use to procure materials used in our business, or generally in the food supply chain, could be damaging to the restaurant industry overall and specifically harm our brand and reputation. The speed with which negative publicity (whether or not accurate) can be disseminated has increased dramatically with the advent of social media. If we are unable to quickly and effectively respond to such reports, we may suffer a decrease in guest traffic which could adversely impact our financial performance. We face a variety of risks related to our international expansion and global brand development efforts that could negatively affect our brand, require additional infrastructure to support, and expose us to additional liabilities under foreign laws. Our licensees are authorized to operate The Cheesecake Factory restaurant concept using our trademarks, trade dress, logos and systems and to provide our branded food and bakery products directly to consumers in The Cheesecake Factory restaurants to be opened in the licensed areas. We provide extensive and detailed training to our licensees so their personnel are able to effectively execute on our operating processes and procedures. Should we enter into additional international agreements, we intend to provide similar training. However, since we do not operate these restaurants directly, we can provide no assurance that our licensees and other partners will adhere to our operating standards in the same manner we would if the restaurants were operated directly by us. The products and services our licensees and other partners deliver in our branded restaurants may be negatively affected by factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to: · difficulties in achieving the consistency of product quality and service as compared to restaurants we operate in the United States; · changes to our recipes required by cultural norms; · inability to obtain adequate and reliable supplies of ingredients and products necessary to execute our diverse menu; · the availability of experienced management to operate their restaurants according to our standards; · differences, changes or uncertainties in economic, regulatory, legal, social and political conditions, including the possibility of instability and unrest which could hamper our ability to adequately train our licensees in the operation of their restaurants. If our branded restaurants operated by licensees and other partners under international agreements have difficulty operating effectively, and these difficulties are attributed to us, our reputation and brand value could be harmed. In order to support our international expansion, we entered into supply agreements with our licensees and intend to enter into similar supply agreements with other partners whereby our bakery will supply certain of our branded bakery products to our branded international restaurants. In order to supply bakery products to our branded restaurants operated by our international partners, we must adapt certain recipes to eliminate prohibited ingredients, comply with labeling requirements that differ from the United States, and maintain certifications required to export to such countries. In addition, unexpected events outside of our control, such as trade restrictions, embargos, and disruptions in shipping, may affect our ability to transport adequate levels of bakery products to our licensees, for whom we are a sole source of supply for our branded desserts. A failure to adequately supply bakery products to our internationally branded restaurants could affect the guest experience at those restaurants, resulting in decreased sales, and could, depending upon the reason for the failure, trigger contractual defaults on our part. As we continue the international expansion of our brand, we will need to comply with regulations and legal requirements, including those related to the protection of our tradenames, trademarks and other intellectual property. Additionally, we will need to comply with both domestic laws affecting United States businesses that operate internationally and foreign laws in the countries in which we expand our restaurants. (See also, “Changes in, or any failure to comply with, applicable laws or regulations could adversely affect our business and financial performance.”) Also, we may become subject to lawsuits or other legal actions resulting from the acts or omissions of our licensees and other partners under international agreements and, even though we may have taken reasonable steps to protect against such liabilities, including by obtaining contractual indemnifications and insurance coverage, there is no assurance that we will not incur costs and expenses as a result of our licensees’ and other partners’ conduct, even when we are not legally liable. 17 Table of Contents If we are unable to appropriately scale our infrastructure in a timely manner to respond to and support domestic or international opportunities for growth, our ability to successfully expand our business and increase our results of operations may be harmed. We continually evaluate the appropriate level of infrastructure necessary to support our operational and development plans, including our international expansion. However, with respect to our domestic operations, if market conditions improve and we are able to identify enough high quality sites to significantly increase the planned number of new restaurant openings in the future, we may be unable to scale or manage the growth of our corporate and field supervision infrastructure in the short term to appropriately support our operations. Likewise, if sales decline, we may be unable to reduce our infrastructure quickly enough to prevent further sales deleveraging which would adversely affect our financial performance. Our international license agreements require us to provide training and support to our licensees for their development and operation of The Cheesecake Factory restaurants. We are in the process of designating additional corporate personnel dedicated to international development and continue to utilize talents of existing management, some but not all of who have prior experience in international operations, as we develop our international licensing and operations infrastructure. In addition, one of the most important aspects of our restaurant operations is our ability to deliver dependable, quality service by experienced staff members who can execute our concepts according to our high standards. This requires training our licensees’ management in the United States and our licensees’ staff in the licensed territories, as well as providing support in the selection and development of restaurant sites, product sourcing logistics, technological systems, and menu renovation. If we are unable to provide the appropriate level of infrastructure support to our international licensees and other partners, our contractual relationships and future international expansion opportunities may be harmed. If we are unable to successfully expand and operate our Grand Lux Cafe and RockSugar Pan Asian Kitchen brands in accordance with our strategic plan, our long-term revenue and EPS targets may be negatively impacted. All of our restaurants are subject to the risks and uncertainties described in this filing. However, there is an enhanced level of risk and uncertainty related to the expansion of our less-established brands, Grand Lux Cafe and RockSugar Pan Asian Kitchen. During the past few years, we gained valuable insight into the Grand Lux Cafe concept, including the types of markets in which it performs well, how guests perceive the concept based on its design and décor, and the appropriate size of future units. We refined Grand Lux Cafe’s architectural design and layout to incorporate this knowledge and to position the concept as we believe appropriate for potential future growth. We are currently in discussions with landlords for potential sites and expect at least one new Grand Lux Cafe to open in fiscal 2014. However, we can provide no assurance that new units will be accepted in the markets targeted for the expansion of this concept. While we currently have no plans to open additional RockSugar Pan Asian Kitchen restaurants, we continue to evaluate the concept’s potential for growth but can provide no assurance that expansion of this brand would be successful. Changes in, or any failure to comply with, applicable laws or regulations could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our business is subject to extensive state and local government regulation in the various jurisdictions in which our restaurants and bakeries are located, including, but not limited to, regulations relating to alcoholic beverage control, public health and safety, environmental hazards, and food safety and labeling laws. The failure to obtain and/or retain licenses, permits or other regulatory approvals required to operate our business could delay or prevent the opening and/or continued operation of a restaurant, adversely affecting that restaurant’s operations and profitability, and could adversely affect our ability to obtain these licenses elsewhere. In addition, the failure to comply with governmental regulations could subject us to penalties and interruptions in operations. We also may be subject to dram shop statutes in certain states, and a settlement or judgment against us under a dram shop statute in excess of our general liability insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Significant government-imposed increases in minimum wages, paid or unpaid leaves of absence and mandated health and/or COBRA benefits, or increased tax reporting, assessment or payment requirements related to our staff members who receive gratuities, or changes in interpretations of existing law concerning meal and rest period breaks, could be detrimental to the profitability of our restaurants and bakery operations. In addition, various federal, state and local labor laws and regulations govern our operations and relationships with our staff members, including, but not limited to, minimum wages, breaks, overtime, deductions, certain benefits (including health care benefits), safety, working conditions and citizenship and legal residency requirements. Changes in, or any failure to comply with, these laws and regulations could subject us to fines or other legal actions. Settlements or judgments in connection therewith that are not insured or are in excess of our coverage limitations could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Despite our efforts to maintain compliance with legal requirements, some of our staff members may not meet federal citizenship or residency requirements. This could result in a disruption in our work force, sanctions against us and adverse publicity. In addition, immigration-related employment regulations, on both the state and federal level, may make it more difficult for us to identify and hire qualified staff members. 18 Table of Contents See also, “We face a variety of risks related to our international expansion and global brand development efforts that could negatively affect our brand, require additional infrastructure to support, and expose us to additional liabilities under foreign laws” for a discussion of regulatory risks related to our international expansion. Labor organizing could adversely affect our operations and harm our competitive position in the restaurant industry. While we believe we have favorable relations with our staff members and provide them with competitive pay and benefits, our staff members and others may attempt to unionize our workforce, which could increase our labor costs, limit our ability to manage our workforce effectively and cause disruptions to our operations. A loss of our ability to effectively manage our workforce and the compensation and benefits we offer to our staff members could harm our business and financial performance. If we are unable to respond appropriately to changes in consumer health and disclosure regulations and eating habits, our revenues could be adversely impacted. The federal government, as well as a number of states, counties and cities, have enacted menu labeling laws requiring multi-unit restaurant operators to make certain nutritional information available to guests. Some states and local governments also have enacted legislation prohibiting the sales of certain types and/or levels of ingredients, such as transfats, in restaurants. The success of our restaurant and bakery operations depends, in part, upon our ability to respond effectively to changes in consumer health and disclosure regulations and to adapt our menu offerings and bakery selections to trends in eating habits and governmental requirements. If consumer health regulations or consumer eating habits change significantly, we may be required to modify or discontinue certain menu items. In addition, dietary restrictions in some international locations in which our international licensees plan to operate may require us to modify or discontinue serving certain menu items in those locations. To the extent we are unable to respond with appropriate changes to our menu offerings, this could materially affect guest demand for our concepts and have an adverse impact on our revenues and financial performance. Increases in the cost of managing our business risks may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We retain the financial responsibility for a significant portion of our risks and associated liabilities with respect to workers’ compensation, general liability, employment practices, employee health benefits and other insurable risks through our self-insurance programs. Unfavorable fluctuations in market conditions or availability of such insurance or changes in local, state and/or federal regulations could significantly increase our self-insurance costs and insurance premiums. Employment-related litigation continues to increase at both the state and federal levels, particularly with respect to claims styled as class action lawsuits, which are costly to defend. Also, some employment-related claims in the area of wage and hour disputes are not insurable risks. If our costs related to these claims continue to increase, our financial performance may be harmed. Rising health care costs and continuing uncertainties concerning the effect of implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 and similar laws may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Despite our efforts to control costs while still providing competitive health care benefits to our staff members, significant increases in health care costs continue to occur, and we can provide no assurance that our cost containment efforts in this area will be effective. In March 2010, the federal Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“PPACA”) and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 became law. While we have performed an initial analysis regarding the anticipated impact of these laws on our cost structure, we may be unable to accurately predict the impact of this federal health care legislation on our health care benefit costs due to continued uncertainty with respect to implementation of such legislation. Significant increases in costs due either to the PPACA or general health care cost increases could adversely impact our operating results, as there is no assurance that we would be able to absorb and/or pass through the costs of such legislation. Information technology system failures or breaches of our network security could interrupt our operations and subject us to increased operating costs, as well as to litigation and other liabilities. We rely heavily on our in-restaurant and enterprise-wide computer systems and network infrastructure across our operations, and the systems we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen risks. The efficient management of our operations depends upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and systems against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other catastrophic events, as well as from internal and external security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. We employ both internal resources and external consultants to conduct auditing and testing for weaknesses in our systems, controls, firewalls and encryption to reduce the likelihood of any security failures or breaches. However, we can provide no assurance that these security measures will be successful. 19 Table of Contents In addition, our corporate support center is located in California, in an area prone to natural disasters such as earthquakes and wildfires. We have business continuity and disaster recovery plans in place to address many events of this nature, and back-up and off-site locations for recovery of electronic and other kinds of information. (See “Our inability or failure to execute on a comprehensive business continuity plan following a major natural or manmade disaster, including terrorism, at our corporate facility could materially adversely impact our business and our financial performance”.) However, any damage to or failure of our computer systems or network infrastructure to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or breaches in the security of these systems could cause significant delays in customer service and reduce efficiency in our operations. Significant capital investments could be required to remediate these issues. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. A failure of our security measures could harm our reputation and financial results, as well as subject us to litigation or actions by regulatory authorities. A data security breach involving a guest’s or staff member’s personal data could negatively affect our business. We receive and maintain certain personal information about our guests and staff members. For example, we transmit confidential credit card information in connection with credit card transactions, and we are required to collect and maintain certain personal information in connection with our employment practices, including the administration of our benefit plans. The collection and use of this information by us is regulated at the federal and state levels, and the regulatory environment related to information security and privacy is increasingly demanding. If our security and information systems are compromised or our staff members or authorized third parties fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties, which could adversely affect our financial performance. In addition, our ability to accept credit cards as payment in our restaurants and on-line store depends on us remaining compliant with standards set by the PCI Security Standards Council. These standards require certain levels of system security and procedures to protect our customers’ credit card and other personal information. We employ both internal resources and external consultants to conduct auditing and testing to reduce the likelihood of any security failures or breaches. However, we can provide no assurance that these security measures will be successful. Negative publicity resulting from a data security breach could significantly harm our reputation. We utilize third-party vendors to assist us with essential business processes, which may subject us to certain risks, including potential disruptions in business and increased costs. In order to leverage our internal resources and information technology infrastructure, and to support our business continuity and disaster recovery planning efforts in the event of a physical loss or damage to our corporate facilities, we utilize third-party vendors to assist us with some of our essential business processes that depend on technology. In some instances, these processes are outsourced to the vendor in their entirety and in other instances we utilize these vendors’ externally-hosted business applications. Some of the processes for which we utilize third parties include, but are not limited to, gift card tracking and authorization, labor scheduling and email hosting. While we work to ensure that all providers of outsourced services observe proper data security practices and internal control practices, such as redundant processing facilities, we cannot guarantee that failures will not occur. The failure of third-party vendors to provide adequate services, including protection of sensitive data, could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. Our inability or failure to execute on comprehensive business continuity and disaster recovery plans following a major natural or manmade disaster, including terrorism, at our corporate facility could materially adversely impact our business and our financial performance. Most of our corporate systems and processes and corporate support for our restaurant operations are centralized at one California location, with the exception of our construction and design department and our East Coast bakery production and fulfillment facility. We have disaster recovery procedures and a comprehensive business continuity plan in place to address many critical events, including back up and off-site locations for storage and recovery of electronic and other forms of data and information. However, if we are unable to fully execute our disaster recovery procedures, we may experience delays in recovery and losses of data, inability to perform vital corporate functions, tardiness in required reporting and compliance, failures to adequately support field operations and other breakdowns in normal operating procedures that could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and exposure to administrative and other legal claims. 20 Table of Contents Litigation could have a material adverse impact on our business and our financial performance. We are subject to lawsuits, administrative proceedings and claims that arise in the regular course of business. These matters typically involve claims by guests, staff members and others regarding issues such as food borne illness, food safety, premises liability, compliance with wage and hour requirements, work-related injuries, discrimination, harassment, disability and other operational issues common to the foodservice industry. We could be adversely affected by negative publicity and litigation costs resulting from these claims, regardless of their validity. Significant legal fees and costs in complex class action litigation or an adverse judgment or settlement that is not insured or is in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We are self-insured, or carry insurance programs with high retention levels, for a significant portion of our risks and associated liabilities with respect to workers’ compensation, general liability, employment practices, employee health benefits and other insurable risks. We accrue liabilities for these programs based on our estimate of the ultimate costs to settle known claims as well as claims that are incurred but not yet reported to us (“IBNR”). Significant judgment is required to estimate IBNR amounts as parties have yet to assert such claims. If actual claims trends, including the severity or frequency of claims, differ from our estimates, our financial performance could be negatively impacted. Adverse weather conditions and natural disasters could unfavorably impact our restaurant sales. Adverse weather conditions can impact guest traffic at our restaurants, cause the temporary underutilization of outdoor patio seating, and, in more severe cases, such as hurricanes or other natural disasters, cause temporary inability to obtain supplies and closures of our affected restaurants, sometimes for prolonged periods, which would negatively affect our restaurant sales. New restaurant openings may negatively impact sales at our existing restaurants. We target high quality, high profile locations for our upscale and highly customized restaurants. The size of our restaurant trade areas varies by location, depending on a number of factors such as population density, demographics, retail, business, entertainment and other traffic generators and geography. As a result, the opening of a new restaurant could impact the sales of one or more of our existing restaurants nearby. It is not our intention to open new restaurants that materially cannibalize the sales of our existing restaurants. However, as with most growing retail and restaurant chain operations, there can be no assurance that such sales impact will not occur or become more significant in the future as we gradually increase our presence in existing markets to maximize our competitive position and financial performance in each market. Our failure to establish, maintain and apply adequate internal control over our financial reporting could affect our reported financial results. In addition, changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards could affect our reported financial results. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These provisions provide for the identification of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting — a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. If we experience a material weakness in internal controls, there can be no assurance that we will be able to remediate that material weakness in a timely manner or maintain all of the controls necessary to remain in compliance. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. Additionally, changes in accounting standards or new accounting pronouncements and interpretations may occur that could adversely affect our previously reported or future financial results. Failure to satisfy financial covenants and/or repayment requirements under our credit facility could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We have a five-year revolving credit facility (“Facility”) with a maximum available borrowing commitment of $200 million, which expires in December 2015. The Facility requires us to maintain certain financial covenants. At January 1, 2013, the last day of our 2012 fiscal year, we had no outstanding debt balance under the Facility. However, any failure to maintain these debt covenants or have sufficient liquidity to either repay or refinance the then outstanding balance at expiration of the Facility, or upon violation of the covenants, would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. (See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 for additional information concerning our long-term debt.) 21 Table of Contents Risks Related to Owning Our Stock The market price of our common stock is subject to volatility. During fiscal 2012, the price of our common stock fluctuated between $28.58 and $36.24 per share. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, changes in financial estimates by research analysts with respect to us or others in the restaurant industry, actual or anticipated variations in our operating results or those of our competitors as compared to analyst expectations, and announcements of significant transactions (including mergers or acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures or other strategic initiatives) by us or others in the restaurant industry. In addition, the equity markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the stock price of many companies in ways that may have been unrelated to an individual company’s operating performance. The price of our common stock may continue to be volatile, based on factors specific to our company and industry, as well as factors related to the equity markets overall. If we are unable to continue to pay dividends or repurchase our stock as expected by the market, our EPS and stock price may be harmed. In fiscal 2012, we repurchased approximately 3.2 million shares of our common stock. (See Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our stockholders’ equity.) In addition, in July 2012, our Board of Directors authorized the initial payment of a quarterly cash dividend of $0.12 per common share. The dividend and stock repurchase program require the use of a significant portion of our cash flow. Our ability to pay dividends and repurchase stock will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future, which may be subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. Any failure to pay dividends or repurchase stock after we have announced our intention to do so may negatively impact investor confidence in us, thereby negatively impacting our EPS and stock price. We have a shareholder rights plan, or poison pill, which could affect the price of our common stock and make it more difficult for a potential acquirer to purchase a large portion of our securities, to initiate a tender offer or a proxy contest, or to acquire us. In August 2008, our Board of Directors extended our shareholder rights plan, commonly known as a “poison pill,” until August 2018. The poison pill may discourage, delay, or prevent a third party from acquiring a large portion of our securities, initiating a tender offer or proxy contest, or acquiring us through an acquisition, merger or similar transaction even if our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares over then-current market prices. There may be future sales or other dilution of our equity that may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue additional shares of common stock and additional classes or series of preferred stock without any action on the part of the stockholders. The Board of Directors also has the discretion, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over the common stock with respect to dividends or upon the liquidation or winding up of our business and other terms. If we issue preferred shares that have a preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred shares with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of our common stockholders or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 