ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS The risk factors presented below may affect our future operating results, financial position and cash flows. In addition to the risk factors presented below, changes in general economic conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns, demographic trends and consumer confidence in the economy, which affect consumer behavior and spending for restaurant dining occasions in general, may have a material impact on us. Our actual results could vary significantly from any results expressed or implied by forward-looking statements depending upon a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the following risks and uncertainties: Changes in consumer eating habits as a result of new information regarding diet, nutrition and health could impact demand for our menu and bakery product offerings. Our success in creating demand for our restaurant menu and bakery product offerings is dependent on our ability to continue to accurately predict consumer dining and taste preferences, and adapt our menu to trends in food consumption. If consumer eating habits change significantly and we are unable to respond with appropriate menu and bakery product offerings, it could materially affect demand for our menu and bakery product offerings resulting in lost customers and an adverse impact on our results of operations. Increasing competition in the restaurant industry in general, and specifically within the upscale, casual dining segment of the restaurant industry, may adversely affect customer traffic at our restaurants. The restaurant industry is highly competitive with respect to price, service, location and food quality. There are a substantial number of restaurant operations that compete directly and indirectly with us, some of which may have significantly greater financial resources, higher revenues, and greater economies of scale than we do. In addition, increasing competition specifically within the upscale, casual dining segment could negatively impact customer traffic at our restaurants, as dining options increase for the consumer segment we target. 20 Adverse weather conditions could unfavorably affect our restaurant sales. Adverse weather conditions can impact customer traffic at our restaurants, cause the temporary underutilization of outdoor patio seating, and, in more severe cases, cause restaurant closures. Outdoor patio seating is available at most of our restaurants and accounts for approximately 18% of our seating capacity. Seasonality of our business and the timing of new restaurant openings could result in fluctuations in our financial performance from quarter-to-quarter within a fiscal year. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, our restaurant sales have typically been higher during the second and third quarters of the fiscal year. Our bakery operation is seasonal to the extent that the fourth quarter’s sales are typically higher due to holiday business and may also significantly vary from quarter to quarter due to the timing and/or size of orders from large-account bakery customers. As a result of these factors, results of operations for any single quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year. Quarterly results have been, and in the future will continue to be, significantly impacted by the timing of new restaurant openings and their respective preopening costs. Inflation may increase our operating expenses. Our profitability is dependent, among other things, upon our ability to anticipate and react to changes in the costs of key operating resources, including food and other raw materials, labor, energy, insurance (including health, liability and workers compensation), and other supplies and services. To the extent that price increases cannot be passed along to our restaurant and bakery customers, those increases could impact our financial results. There can be no assurance that future supplies and costs for the commodities that we purchase will not fluctuate due to weather and other market conditions outside of our control. In addition, our suppliers may be affected by higher minimum wage and benefit standards, fuel costs, and other expenses that they pass through to their customers, which could result in higher costs for goods and services supplied to us. Our inability to successfully and sufficiently raise menu prices could result in a decline in margins. We utilize menu price increases to help offset cost increases, including increased costs for minimum wages, employee benefits, insurance arrangements, construction, fuel, and other costs. If we are unsuccessful at raising prices, our business and results could be harmed. Changes in, or any failure to comply with, applicable laws or regulations could adversely affect our business, financial position and results. Our business is subject to extensive state and local government regulation in the various jurisdictions in which our restaurants and bakeries are located, including regulations relating to alcoholic beverage control, public health and safety, and food safety. The failure to obtain and/or retain licenses, permits or other regulatory approvals could delay or prevent the opening and/or continued operation of a restaurant in a particular area. In addition, our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to fines or legal actions that could adversely affect our business, financial position and results. 21 • Alcoholic beverage control. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require each of our restaurants to obtain licenses and permits to sell alcoholic beverages on the premises. The failure of a restaurant to obtain or retain its licenses would adversely affect that restaurant’s operations and profitability, and could adversely affect our ability to obtain these licenses elsewhere. • Public health and safety. We may also be subject to dram shop statutes in certain states, which generally provide a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Even though we are covered by general liability insurance, a settlement or judgment against us under a dram shop statute in excess of liability coverage could have a material adverse effect on our operations. • Food safety. As a manufacturer and distributor of food products, we are subject to a number of food safety regulations, including the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. Failure to comply with these regulations could adversely affect our business, financial position and results. Changes in, or any failure to comply with, applicable labor laws or regulations could adversely affect our business, financial position and results. Various federal and state labor laws and regulations govern our operations and relationships with employees, including minimum wages, breaks, overtime, fringe benefits, safety, working conditions and citizenship requirements. Changes in, or any failure to comply with, these laws and regulations could subject us to fines or legal actions. Settlements or judgments that are not insured or in excess of our coverage limitations could have a material adverse affect on our business. Even if we operate our facilities in strict compliance with Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services requirements, some of our employees may not meet federal citizenship or residency requirements. This could result in a disruption in our work force and adverse publicity. Significant government-imposed increases in minimum wages, paid or unpaid leaves of absence and mandated health benefits, or increased tax reporting, assessment or payment requirements related to our employees who receive gratuities could be detrimental to the profitability of our restaurants and bakery operations. Adverse publicity about us, our restaurants or bakery products could negatively affect public perception of the brand. Multi-unit foodservice operations such as ours can be substantially affected by adverse publicity resulting from food quality, illness, injury, health concerns, or operating issues stemming from a single restaurant or limited number of restaurants or, with respect to our bakery operations, a single production run of bakery products. The need for advertising may arise, which could increase our operating expenses. We have historically relied on our high profile locations, operational excellence, media interest, and “word of mouth” to attract and retain restaurant guests instead of using paid advertising or discounting. Should we conclude that paid advertising is necessary to attract and retain guests, our operating expenses could increase and our financial results could be adversely affected. If we are unable to realize our long-term growth plan and successfully implement our business strategy, our growth rate could slow. Our long-term growth is dependent on the success of strategic and operating initiatives, including new restaurant concepts and new bakery product lines. If we are unable to successfully implement operating initiatives, develop new bakery product lines, and/or develop additional concepts to meet our growth objectives, we could experience a lower growth rate than we have in the past. In addition, should we decide to undertake an acquisition as part of our growth plan, the unsuccessful completion of the transaction and/or the failure of the acquired concept could result in material costs incurred by us. 22 Our growth rate depends primarily on new restaurant openings and is subject to various factors that may increase the cost to develop and/or affect the number and timing of the openings of new restaurants. Future growth in sales and profits will depend to a substantial extent on our ability to increase the number of our restaurants. Due to the highly customized nature of our restaurant concept and the complex design, construction, and preopening processes for each new location, the lease negotiation and restaurant development timeframes vary from location to location and can be subject to unforeseen delays. The number and timing of new restaurants actually opened during any given period, and their associated contribution to operating week growth for the period, will depend on a number of factors including, but not limited, to: • The identification and availability of suitable locations and leases; • The availability of suitable financing to us and our landlords; • The timing of the delivery of the leased premises to us from our landlords in order to commence build-out construction activities; • The ability of us and our landlords to obtain all necessary governmental licenses and permits to construct and operate our restaurants on a timely basis; • Our ability to manage the construction and development costs of new restaurants, and the availability and/or cost of raw materials; • The rectification of any unforeseen engineering or environmental problems with the leased premises; • Adverse weather during the construction period; and • The hiring and training of qualified operating personnel in the local market. Our ability to successfully operate our bakery business will have an impact on our ability to grow bakery sales and profits. A downturn or limited future growth of bakery sales will have an adverse impact on our business, financial position and results. Our bakery operations are dependent upon a number of factors including, but not limited, to: • The completion of construction of our second bakery production facility and, subsequently, our ability to operate it efficiently and effectively; • Our ability to obtain and retain large-account customers for our bakery operations and our inability to enter into long-term contracts with those customers; and • Our reliance on two major warehouse customers for a substantial percentage of our third party bakery sales. New restaurant openings may negatively impact sales at our existing restaurants. We generally select high profile locations for our large, upscale and highly customized restaurants, and believe that we draw guests from a much larger geographical area compared to most casual dining chain restaurants. The sizes of our restaurant trade areas vary from location to location, depending on a number of factors such as population density, retail traffic generators and geography. As a result, the opening of a new restaurant could impact the sales of one or more of our nearby restaurants. It is not our intention to open new restaurants that materially cannibalize the sales of our existing restaurants. However, as with most growing retail and restaurant chain operations, there can be no assurance that sales cannibalization will not inadvertently occur or become more significant in the future as we gradually increase our presence in existing markets over time to maximize our competitive position and financial performance in each market. 23 Litigation could have a material adverse impact on our business. We are subject to lawsuits, administrative proceedings and claims that arise in the course of our business. The claims typically involve claims by guests, employees and others regarding such matters as food borne illness, compliance with wage and hour requirements, and other operational issues common to the foodservice industry. We could be adversely affected by negative publicity resulting from these claims, regardless of their validity. An adverse judgment that is not insured or in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse affect on our business and financial position and results of operations. We are self-insured for a significant portion of our risks and associated liabilities with respect to workers’ compensation, general liability, health benefits and other insurable risks. We accrue liabilities for these programs based on our estimate of the ultimate costs to settle known claims as well as claims that are incurred but not reported. Significant judgment is required to estimate claims that have been incurred but not reported. If actual claims trends, including the severity or frequency of claims, differ from our estimates, our financial results could be negatively impacted. We may be unable to scale our infrastructure to support our growing operations. If we are unable to grow or manage the growth of our corporate and field supervision infrastructure to support our expanding operations, it could have an adverse impact on our ability to open new restaurants at our targeted rate. Our business and future development could be hurt if we are unable to retain key personnel. The success of our business will continue to be highly dependent upon the services of David Overton, our co-founder and current Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), and certain other senior executives of the Company. The loss of the services of the CEO or other senior executives could have a material adverse effect upon our business and plans for future development. Our failure to establish, maintain and apply adequate internal control over our financial reporting. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These provisions provide for the identification of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, which is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Should we identify a material weakness in internal control, there can be no assurance that we will be able to remediate any future material weaknesses that may be identified in a timely manner or maintain all of the controls necessary to remain in compliance. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. Changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards could affect our reported results of operations. Changes in accounting standards, new accounting pronouncements and interpretations may occur that could adversely affect our reported financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. 24 ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 