Item 1A. Risk Factors. If We Fail to Compete Successfully in the Future Against Existing or Potential Competitors, Our Operating Results May Be Adversely Affected. Our principal global competitors with respect to our entire cardiac defibrillator equipment product line are Physio-Control and Philips. Physio-Control is in the process of being sold to Bain Capital, a private equity firm, and had been the market leader in the defibrillator industry for over 20 years. As a result of Physio-Control’s large position in this industry, many potential customers have relationships with Physio-Control that could make it difficult for us to continue to penetrate the markets for our products. In addition, Bain Capital and Philips and other competitors each have significantly greater resources than we do. Accordingly, competitors could substantially increase the resources they devote to the development and marketing of products that are competitive with ours. These competitors may develop and successfully commercialize medical devices that directly or indirectly accomplish what our products are designed to accomplish in a superior and/or less expensive manner. There are a number of smaller competitors in the United States, which include Cardiac Science Corporation, HeartSine Technology, and Defibtech. Internationally, we face the same competitors as in the United States as well as Nihon Kohden, Corpuls, Schiller, and other local competitors. It is possible the market may embrace these competitors’ products, which could negatively impact our market share. Additional companies may enter the market. Currently, we believe there are no direct competitors for our LifeVest product. However, competitors may develop their own products to compete against the LifeVest. It is possible that similar products developed by competitors could be superior to or more cost-effective than our LifeVest product. Consequently, our ability to sell/lease/rent the LifeVest could be materially affected and our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. In addition to external defibrillation and external pacing with cardiac resuscitation equipment, it is possible that other alternative therapeutic approaches to the treatment of SCA may be developed. These alternative therapies or approaches, including pharmaceutical or other alternatives, could prove to be superior to our products. There is significant competition in the business of developing and marketing software for data collection, billing, scheduling, dispatching, records and resource management in the emergency medical system and fire markets. Our principal competitors in this business include Sansio, emsCharts, Intermedix, Safety Pad Software, ImageTrend, Inc., eCore Software Solutions, Inc., PDSI Software, Inc., EnRoute Emergency Systems (formerly Geac Computer Corporation, Ltd.), DocuMed, Inc., Tritech Software Systems, Inc., RAM Software Systems, Inc., Intergraph Corporation, Affiliated Computer Services, Inc., Emergency Reporting, Inc., AmbPac, Inc., ESO Solutions, Golden Hour and Innovative Engineering, some of which have greater financial, technical, research and development and marketing resources than we do. Because the barriers to entry in this business are relatively low, additional competitors may easily enter this market in the future. It is possible that systems developed by competitors could be superior to our data management system. Consequently, our ability to sell our data management systems could be materially affected and our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. Our principal competitors in the area of temperature management are Philips (Innercool), Medivance Inc. (who recently announced that they will be acquired by C.R. Bard, Inc.), Cincinnati SubZero Products, Inc. and Stryker Corporation. The temperature management market is primarily divided into “Intravascular” technologies and “Surface” technologies. The Philips InnerCool RTx Endovascular System competes with ZOLL’s IVTM solution. Philips also competes in the surface cooling market with Philips InnerCool STx Surface Pad System. ZOLL expects Philips to be more active in the promotion of the Innercool technology. Medivance, Inc. markets the Arctic Sun® Temperature Management system. This surface technology utilizes gel coated pads that are 23 Table of Contents placed directly on the patient’s skin. These pads can have either cold or warm water circulating depending upon the mode of operation. Medivance continues to aggressively market their products within the U.S. marketplace. Both Cincinnati SubZero (Blanketrol®) and Stryker Corporation’s Gaymar Industries, Inc. (Medi-Therm®) provide cooling blanket products that are wrapped around the patient. General Economic Conditions, Which Are Out of the Company’s Control, May Adversely Affect the Company’s Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Company’s businesses may be affected by changes in general economic conditions, both nationally and internationally. Recessionary economic cycles, higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, inflation, higher levels of unemployment, changes in the laws or industry regulations or other economic factors may adversely affect the demand for the Company’s products. Additionally, these economic factors, as well as higher tax rates, increased costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, and changes in other laws and regulations may increase the Company’s cost of sales and operating expenses, which may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Current Economic Trends Could Adversely Affect our Financial Performance. The global economic recession has adversely affected the levels of both our sales and profitability. Weakening economic conditions and outlook may result in a further decline in the level of our customers’ spending that could adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. The largest portion of our business is the sale of capital equipment. While customers may delay their capital equipment purchases of defibrillator products in the near-term due to the current economic environment, the equipment is a standard of care and will ultimately need to be replaced. However, we cannot be sure as to how long such delays may continue. However, our AutoPulse product and certain of our other products are not currently standards of care. Consequently, customers may indefinitely postpone the purchase of these products and any of their accessories. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current adverse economic conditions. Current and Future State and Municipal Budget Deficits Could Adversely Affect our Financial Performance. Many of our customers include state and municipal agencies. In an article by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, the Center estimated that approximately 46 states were facing budget deficits in fiscal 2011, and these fiscal problems are likely to continue into fiscal 2012. Because of these budget deficits, our customers may delay their purchases of capital equipment from the Company due to the current economic environment. Significant purchasing delays may adversely affect our financial performance. The Adoption of Federal Medical Device Tax Surcharge by the U.S. Government Could Reduce Our Profitability. In March 2010, the U.S. Congress adopted and President Obama signed into law comprehensive health care reform legislation through the passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act (A.R. 3590) and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (H.R. 4872). Among other initiatives, these bills impose a 2.3% excise tax on domestic sales of medical devices commencing January 1, 2013. Approximately 75% of our revenues come from capital equipment and related accessories sales. As currently enacted, the annual excise tax to our Company could approximate $10 million. Outside of the excise tax, which will impact results of operations commencing January 1, 2013, we cannot predict with any certainty what healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented at the state level, or what the ultimate effect of federal health care reform or any future legislation or regulation will have on us. As we expect the capital equipment portion of our business would derive limited benefit from healthcare reform, we would seek to pass this surtax on to our customers. If we are unsuccessful, this surtax could reduce our profitability. 24 Table of Contents If Competitors Increase Their Use of Price Discounting, Our Gross Margins Could Decline. Some competitors have, from time to time, used price discounting in order to attempt to gain market share. If this activity were to increase in the future, it is possible that our gross margin and overall profitability could be adversely affected if we decided to respond in kind. Our Estimates of Market Size Are Based on Numerous Assumptions Which May Not Be Correct, in Which Case the Actual Size of Our Markets May Be Substantially Smaller Than We Estimate. We have estimated the long-term size of the markets for our LifeVest, AutoPulse and temperature management products. These estimates rely on numerous assumptions, any or all of which may prove to be incorrect. In each of these markets, we are currently the sole participant or one of the major participants; therefore, any negative impact on our business due to any of the considerations set forth in our other Risk Factors are likely to adversely affect our business and may negatively affect the overall market size. Moreover, our market estimates are based on market developments over many years and therefore our ability to accurately predict market developments over such an extended period is limited. Other factors that may impact our estimates include: • emergence of competitive products, technologies or therapies that move the markets away from our products, technologies and therapies; • changes in standards of care in ways that emphasize therapies or treatments not provided by our products; • changes to the healthcare system or reimbursement rates that reduce payments for our products or therapies; • failure of clinical trials or studies (whether sponsored by us or others) to support the safety and efficiency of our products; • publication of adverse publicity regarding our products; • action by regulatory authorities limiting our ability to market our products; and • continuation of challenging economic conditions which slows adoption of new technologies and products. In addition, the occurrence of these factors and concerns with respect to competitive products in the same market may adversely affect the overall growth of the market. These factors and concerns apply generally to the size of the markets for each of our products. More specifically, reductions in average wear time of the LifeVest and a change in the accepted treatments which shortens the waiting period for the implantation of ICDs would impact the growth of the wearable defibrillator market. Our estimate of the long-term automated CPR market assumes that eventually Advanced Life Support providers in both hospitals and ambulances will have an automated CPR device alongside every professional defibrillator. Growth of the temperature management market is particularly dependent on the use of the therapy for indications not yet approved by the FDA, such as post-resuscitation treatment, stroke treatment and MI. The failure of the markets to grow over many years as we estimate may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Operating Results are Likely to Fluctuate, Which Could Cause Our Stock Price to be Volatile, and the Anticipation of a Volatile Stock Price Can Cause Greater Volatility. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate. Various factors have and may continue to affect our operating results, including: • high demand for our products, which could disrupt our normal factory utilization and cause shipments to occur in uneven patterns; 25 Table of Contents • variations in product orders; • timing of new product introductions; • temporary disruptions of buying behavior due to changes in technology or the introduction of next-generation products; • changes in distribution channels; • the long sales cycle inherent in the capital equipment purchasing processes of many of our customers; • actions taken by our competitors such as the introduction of new products or the offering of sales incentives; • the ability of our sales forces to effectively market our products; • supply interruptions from our single-source vendors; • temporary manufacturing disruptions; • regulatory actions, including actions taken by the FDA or similar agencies; and • delays in obtaining domestic or foreign regulatory approvals. A large percentage of our sales are made toward the end of each quarter. As a consequence, our quarterly financial results are often dependent on the receipt of customer orders in the last weeks of a quarter. The absence of these orders could cause us to fall short of our quarterly sales and earnings targets which, in turn, could cause our stock price to decline sharply. As we grow in size, and these orders are received closer to the end of a period, we may not be able to manufacture, test, and ship all orders in time to recognize the shipment as revenue for that quarter. Based on these factors, period-to-period comparisons should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. In anticipation of less successful quarterly results, parties may take short positions in our stock. The actions of parties shorting our stock might cause even more volatility in our stock price. The volatility of our stock may cause the value of a stockholder’s investment to decline rapidly. We May be Subject to Intellectual Property Litigation, Which Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business. If certain patents issued to others are upheld or if certain patent applications filed by others issue and are upheld, we may be: • required to obtain licenses or redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement; • prevented from practicing the subject matter claimed in those patents; or • required to pay damages. There is substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device industry. Litigation or administrative proceedings, including interference proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, related to intellectual property rights have been and in the future could be brought against us or be initiated by us. The Company is a defendant in a pending patent infringement lawsuit filed in Boston by Philips Electronics North America Corporation and its parent, and the Company has brought a patent infringement lawsuit against Philips. Adverse determinations in any patent litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, could require us to seek licenses from third parties and could, if licenses are not available, prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using certain of our products, some of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, the costs of any such proceedings are likely to be substantial whether or not we are successful. 26 Table of Contents We Are Conducting Clinical Trials Related to Newer Technologies Which May Prove Unsuccessful and Have a Negative Impact on Future Sales. We are conducting clinical trials related to the LifeVest and Temperature Management product. While we are confident in the future outcomes of these trials, an unsuccessful trial could adversely affect the marketability of these products in the future. Our Approach to Our Backlog Might Not Be Successful. We maintain a backlog in order to generate operating efficiencies. If order rates are insufficient to maintain such a backlog, we may be subject to operating inefficiencies. We May be Required to Implement a Costly Product Recall. In the event that any of our products proves to be defective, we can voluntarily recall, or the FDA could require us to redesign or implement a recall of, any of our products. Both our larger competitors and we have, on numerous occasions, voluntarily recalled products in the past, and based on this experience, we believe that future recalls could result in significant costs to us and significant adverse publicity, which could harm our ability to market our products in the future. Though it may not be possible to quantify the economic impact of a recall, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes Affecting Healthcare Reimbursement and Payors May Require Us to Decrease the Selling Price for Our Products or Could Result in a Reduction in the Size of the Market for Our Products, Each of Which Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Financial Performance. Trends toward managed care, healthcare cost containment, and other changes in government and private sector initiatives in the United States and other countries in which we do business are placing increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical therapies, which could adversely affect the sale and/or the prices of our products. For example: • major third-party payers of hospital and pre-hospital services, including Medicare, Medicaid and private healthcare insurers, have substantially revised their payment methodologies during the last few years, which has resulted in stricter standards for reimbursement of hospital and pre-hospital charges for certain medical procedures; • Medicare, Medicaid and private healthcare insurer cutbacks could create downward price pressure in the cardiac resuscitation pre-hospital market; • there has been a consolidation among healthcare facilities and purchasers of medical devices in the United States who prefer to limit the number of suppliers from whom they purchase medical products, and these entities may decide to stop purchasing our products or demand discounts on our prices; • there is economic pressure to contain healthcare costs in international markets; • there are proposed and existing laws and regulations in domestic and international markets regulating pricing and profitability of companies in the healthcare industry; and • there have been initiatives by third-party payers to challenge the prices charged for medical products, which could affect our ability to sell products on a competitive basis. We expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Both the pressure to reduce prices for our products in response to these trends and the decrease in the size of the market as a result of these trends could adversely affect our levels of revenues and profitability of sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 27 Table of Contents We Can be Sued for Producing Defective Products and We May be Required to Pay Significant Amounts to Those Harmed If We are Found Liable, and Our Business Could Suffer from Adverse Publicity. The manufacture and sale of medical products such as ours entail significant risk of product liability claims, and product liability claims are made against us from time to time. Our quality control standards comply with FDA requirements, and we believe that the amount of product liability insurance we maintain is adequate based on past product liability claims in our industry. We cannot be assured that the amount of such insurance will be sufficient to satisfy claims made against us in the future or that we will be able to maintain insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts. Product liability claims could result in significant costs or litigation. A product liability lawsuit is currently pending. A successful claim brought against us in excess of our available insurance coverage or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recurring Sales of Disposables to Our Customers May Decline. We typically have recurring sales of disposables to our customers. Other vendors have developed generic disposables to be compatible with our products. If we are unable to continue to differentiate the superiority of our disposables over these generic disposables, our future revenue from the sale of disposables could be reduced, or our pricing and profitability could decline. Failure to Produce New Products or Obtain Market Acceptance for Our New Products in a Timely Manner Could Harm Our Business. Because substantially all of our revenue comes from the sale of cardiac resuscitation devices and related products, our financial performance will depend upon market acceptance of, and our ability to deliver and support, new products. We cannot be assured that we will be able to produce viable products in the time frames we currently estimate. Factors which could cause delay in these schedules or even cancellation of our projects to produce and market these new products include: research and development delays, the actions of our competitors producing competing products, and the actions of other parties who may provide alternative therapies or solutions, which could reduce or eliminate the markets for pending products. The degree of market acceptance of any of our products will depend on a number of factors, including: • our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner; • our ability to successfully implement new product technologies; • the market’s readiness to accept new products; • the standardization of an automated platform for data management systems; • the clinical efficacy of our products and the outcome of clinical trials; • the ability to obtain timely regulatory approval for new products; and • the prices of our products compared to the prices of our competitors’ products. If our new products do not achieve market acceptance, our financial performance could be adversely affected. Our Dependence on Sole and Single Source Suppliers Exposes Us to Supply Interruptions and Manufacturing Delays Caused by Faulty Components, Which Could Result in Product Delivery Delays and Substantial Costs to Redesign Our Products. Although we use many standard parts and components for our products, some key components are purchased from sole or single source vendors for which alternative sources at present are not readily available. 28 Table of Contents For example, we currently purchase proprietary components, including capacitors, display screens, gate arrays and integrated circuits, for which there are no direct substitutes. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of these components as well as our limited ability to deal with faulty components may result in future delays or reductions in product shipments, which could cause a fluctuation in our results of operations. These or any other components could be replaced with alternatives from other suppliers, which could involve a redesign of our products. Such a redesign could involve considerable time and expense. We could be at risk that the supplier might experience difficulties meeting our needs. If our manufacturers are unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing our components in required volumes, we will have to transfer manufacturing to acceptable alternative manufacturers which could result in significant interruptions of supply. The manufacture of these components is complex, and our reliance on the suppliers of these components exposes us to potential production difficulties and quality variations, which could negatively impact the cost and timely delivery of our products. Accordingly, any significant interruption in the supply, or degradation in the quality, of any component would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We May Not be Able to Obtain Appropriate Regulatory Approvals for Our New Products. The manufacture and sale of our products are subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities, principally the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies. The FDA administers the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Some of our products have been classified by the FDA as Class II devices and others, such as our AEDs, have been classified as Class III devices. All of these devices must secure a 510(k) pre-market notification clearance before they can be introduced into the U.S. market. The process of obtaining 510(k) clearance typically takes several months and may involve the submission of limited clinical data supporting assertions that the product is substantially equivalent to an already approved device or to a device that was on the market before the Medical Device Amendments of 1976. Recently, we have noticed the 510(k) process is taking longer as the applications appear to be subject to increased scrutiny which could result in delays in product launches or even expensive redesigns. Delays in obtaining 510(k) clearance could have an adverse effect on the introduction of future products. Moreover, approvals, if granted, may limit the uses for which a product may be marketed, which could reduce or eliminate the commercial benefit of manufacturing any such product. We are also subject to regulation in each of the foreign countries in which we sell products. Many of the regulations applicable to our products in such countries are similar to those of the FDA. However, the national health or social security organizations of certain countries require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed in those countries. We cannot be assured that such clearances will be obtained. For example, although we received U.S. 510(k) clearance on our biphasic waveform in 1999, we have only recently obtained similar clearance in Japan, a process that took a number of years. As a result, our Japanese defibrillator revenues have been very small in recent years. In addition, the FDA has announced recent proposals to reform the 510(k) process. These proposals are wide-ranging and, if fully implemented, would likely result in a longer process to obtain 510(k) clearance and would likely require us to conduct more extensive clinical studies as part of the 510(k) process. These developments in achieving 510(k) clearance would increase the costs for the introduction of new products and features and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If We Fail to Comply With Applicable Regulatory Laws and Regulations, the FDA and Other U.S. and Foreign Regulatory Agencies Could Exercise Any of Their Regulatory Powers, Which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business. Every company that manufactures or assembles medical devices is required to register with the FDA and to adhere to certain quality systems, which regulate the manufacture of medical devices and prescribe record 29 Table of Contents keeping procedures and provide for the routine inspection of facilities for compliance with such regulations. The FDA also has broad regulatory powers in the areas of clinical testing, marketing and advertising of medical devices. To ensure that manufacturers adhere to good manufacturing practices, medical device manufacturers are routinely subject to periodic inspections by the FDA. If the FDA believes that a company may not be operating in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, it could take any of the following actions: • place the company under observation and re-inspect the facilities; • issue a warning letter apprising of violating conduct; • detain or seize products; • mandate a recall; • enjoin future violations; and • assess civil and criminal penalties against the company, its officers or its employees. We, like most of our U.S. competitors, have received warning letters from the FDA in the past, and we may receive warning letters in the future. The number of warning letters issued within the industry has been on the rise, and the number issued within the industry in 2009 and 2010 significantly exceeded the number issued prior to this period. We received a warning letter from the FDA, dated April 22, 2011, addressing certain aspects of battery life claims on our AED Plus product. We have provided additional data and action plans concerning battery life claims to the FDA. The FDA has reviewed the material and has indicated that our response appears to be adequate, pending re-inspection in the future to insure that all actions have been implemented. We expect to fully comply with the actions required by this warning letter. However, our failure to comply with FDA regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including restrictions on the marketing or recall of our products. These sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business. If a foreign regulatory agency believes that we are not operating in compliance with their laws and regulations, they could prevent us from selling our products in their country, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our Industry Is Experiencing Greater Scrutiny by Governmental Authorities, Which May Lead to Greater Governmental Regulation and Heightened Regulatory Enforcement. Our medical devices and our business activities are subject to rigorous regulation, including by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. These authorities and members of the U.S. Congress have been increasing their scrutiny of our industry. Certain states have recently passed or are considering legislation restricting our interactions with health care providers and requiring disclosure of many payments to them. While recent case law has clarified that the FDA’s authority over those medical devices for which the FDA has granted premarket approval (including our LifeVest product) preempts certain state tort laws, legislation has been introduced at the federal level to allow state intervention. We anticipate that governmental authorities will continue to scrutinize our industry closely and that additional regulation by governmental authorities may result in increased compliance costs, increased exposure to litigation and other adverse effects to our business. In addition, heightened regulatory enforcement arising from changes in the political and regulatory environment may adversely affect our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our products and to maintain for sale products previously approved. The FDA’s enhanced reporting requirements and ability to analyze reported data may result in more frequent field actions which may include communications to physicians and patients, recalls of products and repair or replacement of devices. One or more of these actions could have a material impact on our net sales, profitability and reputation in the marketplace. In addition, in November 2010, the FDA launched an initiative to facilitate the development of safer and more effective external defibrillators through improved design and manufacturing practices. The FDA states its 30 Table of Contents initiative will promote innovation of next-generation external defibrillators, enhance the ability of the external defibrillator industry and the FDA to identify and respond to safety problems and risks more quickly and effectively, and designate an appropriate premarket regulatory pathway for AEDs that promotes best practices for design and testing. As a result of this initiative, we expect the FDA to focus greater scrutiny on external defibrillator companies such as ZOLL. The FDA may also require AEDs to obtain premarket approvals (PMA) before they may be commercially distributed in the United States. The PMA process is much longer than the 510(k) process and must be supported by extensive clinical data. This FDA initiative has been only recently launched, and so we are unable to determine the impact on our business or products; nonetheless, depending on the actions taken by the FDA this initiative could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Are Dependent upon Licensed and Purchased Technology for Upgradeable Features in Our Products, and We May Not Be Able to Renew These Licenses or Purchase Agreements in the Future. We license and purchase technology from third parties for upgradeable features in our products, including a 12 lead analysis program, SPO², EtCO², CO and NIBP technologies. We anticipate that we will need to license and purchase additional technology to remain competitive. We may not be able to renew our existing licenses and purchase agreements or to license and purchase other technologies on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to renew our existing licenses and purchase agreements or we are unable to license or purchase new technologies, we may not be able to offer competitive products. Fluctuations in Currency Exchange Rates May Adversely Affect Our International Sales. Our revenue from foreign operations can be denominated in, or significantly influenced by, the currency and general economic climate of the country in which we make sales. A decrease in the value of such foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could result in downward price pressure for our products or losses from currency exchange rate fluctuations. As we continue to expand our international operations, downward price pressure and exposure to gains and losses on foreign currency transactions may increase. Approximately 21% of our fiscal 2011 revenue is denominated in a foreign currency and, as such, is subject to direct foreign currency exposure. The currency exposure on the revenue is partially offset by the operating expenses which are also denominated in local currencies. The currency exposure is also partially offset by any forward contracts entered into to hedge our exposure to exchange rates. The other portion of revenue generated in the foreign markets is sold to distributors and is denominated in U.S. dollars. This revenue could be subject to price pressure if the U.S. dollar strengthens. We may use forward contracts and other instruments to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations from intercompany accounts receivable and forecasted intercompany sales to our subsidiaries denominated in foreign currencies, and we may not be able to do this successfully. Accordingly, we may experience economic loss and a negative impact on our results of operations and equity as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Our Current and Future Investments May Lose Value in the Future. We hold investments in two private companies and may in the future invest in the securities of other companies and participate in joint venture agreements. These investments and future investments are subject to the risks that the entities in which we invest will become bankrupt or lose money. For example, in fiscal 2003, we made a $1.3 million investment in Advanced Circulatory Systems, Inc. (ACSI). We will continue to monitor our investment to determine if there are any triggering events that might impact the carrying value of our investment. If a triggering event or series of events indicate a permanent impairment of our investment, we will be required to write off our investment or some portion thereof in future periods. 31 Table of Contents Investing in other businesses involves risks and no assurance can be made as to the profitability of any investment. Our inability to identify profitable investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Unless we hold a majority position in an investment or joint venture, we will not be able to control all of the activities of the companies in which we invest or the joint ventures in which we are participating. Because of this, such entities may take actions against our wishes and not in furtherance of, and even opposed to, our business plans and objectives. These investments are also subject to the risk of impasse if no one party exercises ultimate control over the business decisions. Future Changes in Applicable Laws and Regulations Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business. Federal, state or foreign governments may change existing laws or regulations or adopt new laws or regulations that regulate our industry. Changes in or adoption of new laws or regulations could result in the following consequences that would have an adverse effect on our business: • regulatory clearance previously received for our products could be revoked; • costs of compliance could increase; or • we may be unable to comply with such laws and regulations so that we would be unable to sell our products. Changes in Tax Laws or Exposure to Additional Income Tax Liabilities Could Have a Material Impact on Our Financial Condition, Results of Operations and Liquidity. We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. We are also subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our net income or financial condition. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate. For example, proposals for fundamental U.S. international tax reform, such as recent proposals by the Obama administration and others that would have the effect of increasing U.S. taxes on non-U.S. income could, if enacted, have a significant adverse impact on our future results of operations. Some of Our Activities May Subject Us to Risks under Federal and State Laws Prohibiting “Kickbacks” and False or Fraudulent Claims. We are subject to the provisions of a federal law commonly known as the Medicare/Medicaid anti-kickback law, and several similar state laws, which prohibit payments intended to induce physicians or others either to refer patients or to acquire or arrange for or recommend the acquisition of healthcare products or services. While the federal law applies only to referrals, products or services for which payment may be made by a federal healthcare program, state laws often apply regardless of whether federal funds may be involved. These laws constrain the sales, marketing and other promotional activities of manufacturers of medical devices by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs, with hospitals, physicians, laboratories and other potential purchasers of medical devices. Other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent, or are for items or services that were not provided as claimed. Anti-kickback and false claims laws prescribe civil and criminal penalties (including fines) for noncompliance that can be substantial. While we continually strive to comply with these complex requirements, interpretations of these laws are ever evolving and even an unsuccessful challenge could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business. 32 Table of Contents Patients May Not Be Able to Obtain Appropriate Insurance Coverage for Our LifeVest Product. The ability of patients to obtain appropriate insurance coverage for our LifeVest product from government and third-party payors is critical to the success of the product. The availability of insurance coverage affects which products physicians may prescribe. Implementation of healthcare reforms in the United States and abroad may limit the price of, or the level at which, insurance is provided for our LifeVest product and adversely affect both our pricing flexibility and the demand for the product. Hospitals or physicians may respond to such pressures by substituting other therapies for our LifeVest product. Further legislative or administrative reforms to the U.S. or international reimbursement systems that significantly reduce insurance coverage for our LifeVest product or deny coverage for our LifeVest product, or adverse decisions regarding coverage or reimbursement issues relating to our LifeVest product by administrators of such systems would have an adverse impact on sales of our LifeVest product. This in turn could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In particular, the LifeVest product is governed by the Durable Medical Equipment Regulations and is subject to audit. The LifeVest is reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors that may limit coverage or reduce reimbursement rates with little notice, which may have an adverse impact on sales of our LifeVest product. On August 4, 2011, Durable Medical Equipment Regional Carriers issued for comment draft revisions to local coverage determinations with respect to Medicare reimbursement for AEDs and wearable defibrillators, including our LifeVest product. The draft revisions would limit the indications for Medicare reimbursement for the LifeVest product. These draft revisions are subject to public hearings and comments. The public comment period ended September 23, 2011. There is no statutory provision that defines a timeline for a decision. We believe that following the public hearing process, the current indications for Medicare reimbursement of the LifeVest product will not be limited; however, if the draft revisions were to become final, the draft limitations on the indications for Medicare reimbursement would have a material adverse effect on our LifeVest business. Failure to Comply with HIPAA Obligations Would Put Us at Risk. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), which is primarily applicable to our LifeVest product, created two new federal crimes: healthcare fraud and false statements relating to healthcare matters. The healthcare fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payers. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines, imprisonment or exclusion from government-sponsored programs. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines or imprisonment. HIPAA also protects the security and privacy of individually identifiable health information maintained or transmitted by healthcare providers, health plans and healthcare clearinghouses. HIPAA restricts the use and disclosure of patient health information, including patient records. Although we believe that HIPAA does not apply to us directly, most of our customers have significant obligations under HIPAA, and we intend to cooperate with our customers and others to ensure compliance with HIPAA with respect to patient information that comes into our possession. Failure to comply with HIPAA obligations can entail criminal penalties. Some states have also enacted rigorous laws or regulations protecting the security and privacy of patient information. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could face additional sanctions. Uncertain Customer Decision Processes May Result in Long Sales Cycles, Which Could Result in Unpredictable Fluctuations in Revenues and Delay the Replacement of Cardiac Resuscitation Devices. Many of the customers in the pre-hospital market consist of municipal fire and emergency medical systems departments. As a result, there are numerous decision-makers and governmental procedures in the decision-making process. In addition, decisions at hospitals concerning the purchase of new medical devices are 33 Table of Contents sometimes made on a department-by-department basis. Accordingly, we believe the purchasing decisions of many of our customers may be characterized by long decision-making processes, which have resulted in and may continue to result in long sales cycles for our products. For example, the sales cycles for cardiac resuscitation products typically have been between six to nine months, although some sales efforts have taken as long as two years. Reliance on Domestic and International Distributors to Sell Our Products Exposes Us to Business Risks That Could Result in Significant Fluctuations in Our Results of Operations. Although we perform credit assessments with sales to distributors, payment by the distributor may be affected by the financial stability of the customers to which the distributor sells. Future sales to distributors may also be affected by the distributor’s ability to successfully sell our products to their customers. Either of these scenarios could result in significant fluctuations in our results of operations. Our International Sales Expose Our Business to a Variety of Risks That Could Result in Significant Fluctuations in Our Results of Operations. Approximately 32% of our sales for fiscal 2011 were made to foreign purchasers, and we plan to increase the sale of our products to foreign purchasers in the future. As a result, a significant portion of our sales is and will continue to be subject to the risks of international business, including: • fluctuations in foreign currencies; • trade disputes; • changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers; • consequences of failure to comply with U.S. laws and regulations concerning the conduct of business outside the U.S.; • the possibility of quotas, duties, taxes or other changes or restrictions upon the importation or exportation of the products; • timing and availability of import/export licenses; • political and economic instability; • higher credit risk and difficulties in accounts receivable collections; • increased tax exposure if our revenues in foreign countries are subject to taxation by more than one jurisdiction; • customer purchase orders governed by foreign laws, which may differ significantly from U.S. laws and limit our ability to enforce our rights under such agreements and to collect damages, if awarded; • disruption in the international transportation industry; • our use of international distributors; and • changes in local economic conditions that could cause some customers to defer purchases. As international sales become a larger portion of our total sales, these risks could create significant fluctuations in our results of operations. These risks could affect our ability to resell trade-in products to domestic distributors, who in turn often resell the trade-in products in international markets. Our inability to sell trade-in products might require us to offer lower trade-in values, which might impact our ability to sell new products to customers desiring to trade in older models and then purchase newer products. 34 Table of Contents We intend to continue to expand our direct sales forces and our marketing support for these sales forces. We intend to continue to expand these areas, but if our sales forces are not effective, or if there is a sudden decrease in the markets where we have direct operations, we could be adversely affected. We May Fail to Adequately Protect or Enforce Our Intellectual Property Rights or Secure Rights to Third Party Intellectual Property, and Our Competitors Can Use Some of Our Previously Proprietary Technology. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Our issued patents are for a definitive period of time and will eventually expire. We cannot be assured as to: • the degree and range of protection any patents will afford against competitors with similar products; • if and when patents will be issued; • whether or not others will obtain patents claiming aspects similar to those covered by our patent applications; • whether or not competitors will use information contained in our expired patents; • whether or not others will design around our patents or obtain access to our know-how; or • the extent to which we will be successful in avoiding any patents granted to others. Our success is also dependent upon the skills, knowledge and experience of our scientific and technical personnel. To help protect our rights, we require all U.S. employees, consultants and advisors to enter into confidentiality agreements, which prohibit the disclosure of confidential information and require disclosure and assignment to us of their ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions. We cannot be assured that these agreements will provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure or the lawful development by others of such information. We May Acquire Other Businesses, and We May Have Difficulty Integrating These Businesses or Generating an Acceptable Return from Acquisitions. We may acquire other businesses or make strategic purchases of interests in other companies related to our business in order to grow, add product lines, acquire customers or otherwise attempt to gain a competitive advantage in new or existing markets. Such acquisitions and investments may involve the following risks: • our management may be distracted by these acquisitions and may be forced to divert a significant amount of time and energy into integrating and running the acquired businesses; • we may face difficulties associated with financing the acquisitions; • we may face the inability to achieve the desired outcomes justifying the acquisition; • we may face difficulties integrating the acquired business’ operations and personnel; and • we may face difficulties incorporating the acquired technology into our existing product lines. For example, we recently acquired temperature management technology from Alsius Corporation. As part of the successful development of the market for this technology, we must: • establish new marketing and sales strategies; • identify respected health professionals and organizations to champion the products; • work with potential customers to develop new sources of unbudgeted funding; • conduct successful clinical trials; 35 Table of Contents • achieve early success for the product in the field; and • obtain FDA approval of new indications. If we are delayed or fail to achieve these objectives, we may encounter difficulties building our customer base for these products, which could cause our operating results to be unfavorably affected. Reliance on Overseas Vendors for Some of the Components for Our Products Exposes Us to International Business Risks, Which Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business. Some of the components we use in our products are acquired from foreign manufacturers, particularly countries located in Europe and Asia. As a result, a significant portion of our purchases of components is subject to the risks of international business. The failure to obtain these components as a result of any of these risks can result in significant delivery delays of our products, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Intangibles and Goodwill We Currently Carry on Our Balance Sheet May Become Impaired. At October 2, 2011, we had approximately $117 million of goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet. These assets are subject to impairment if the cash flow that we generate from these assets specifically, or our business more broadly, are insufficient to justify the carrying value of the assets. Factors affecting our ability to generate cash flow from these assets include, but are not limited to, general market conditions, product acceptance, pricing and competition, distribution, costs of production and operations. In addition, volatility in our stock price and declines in our market capitalization could put pressure on the carrying value of our goodwill and other long-lived assets if the current period of economic uncertainty and related volatility in the financial markets persist for an extended period of time. Provisions in Our Charter Documents, Our Shareholder Rights Agreement and State Law May Make It Harder for Others To Obtain Control of the Company Even Though Some Stockholders Might Consider Such a Development to be Favorable. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of such shares without further vote or action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of Common Stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for third parties to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. In addition, our restated articles of organization provide for staggered terms for the members of the board of directors, which could delay or impede the removal of incumbent directors and could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest more difficult. Our restated articles of organization, restated by-laws and applicable Massachusetts law also impose various procedural and other requirements that could delay or make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us more difficult. We have also implemented a so-called poison pill by adopting our shareholders rights agreement, which was renewed in April 2008. This poison pill significantly increases the costs that would be incurred by an unwanted third party acquirer if such party owns or announces its intent to commence a tender offer for more than 15% of our outstanding Common Stock or otherwise “triggers” the poison pill by exceeding the applicable stock ownership threshold. The existence of this poison pill could delay, deter or prevent a takeover. All of these provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Common Stock, which could preclude our shareholders from recognizing a premium over the prevailing market price of our stock. 36 Table of Contents We Have Only One Manufacturing Facility for Each of Our Major Products and Any Damage or Incapacitation of Any of the Facilities Could Impede Our Ability to Produce These Products. We have only one manufacturing facility for each of our major products. Damage or loss of power to any such facility could render us unable to manufacture the relevant product or require us to reduce the output of products at the damaged facility. In addition, a severe weather event, other natural disaster or any other significant disruption affecting a facility occurring late in a quarter could make it difficult to meet product shipping targets. Any of these events could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Hold Various Marketable Securities Investments Which Are Subject to Market Risk, Including Volatile Interest Rates and a Volatile Stock Market. Our investment policy calls for investing in high quality investment grade securities with an average duration of 24 months or less. However, with the volatility of interest rates and fluctuations in credit quality of the underlying investments and issues of general market liquidity, there can be no assurance that our investments will not lose value. We May Incur Significant Liability if it is Determined Under FDA Regulations That We Are Promoting Off-Label Use of Our Temperature Management Products. We have regulatory clearances to sell our temperature management products in Europe, Canada and in other countries outside the United States to treat cardiac arrest, but we do not have FDA clearance to sell these products in the United States to treat cardiac arrest. In the United States, the use of our temperature management products to treat cardiac arrest is considered off-label use unless and until we receive regulatory clearance for use of our temperature management products to treat cardiac arrest patients. In the event that we are not able to obtain FDA clearance or approval, we may be at risk for liabilities and lost revenue as a result of off-label use. Under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other laws, we are prohibited from promoting our temperature management products for off-label uses. This means that we may not make claims about the safety or effectiveness of our temperature management products for the treatment of cardiac arrest patients, and means that we may not proactively discuss or provide information on the use of our temperature management products for the treatment of cardiac arrest patients, with very specific exceptions. Physicians, however, may lawfully choose to purchase our temperature management products and use them off-label. We do not track how physicians use our temperature management products after they are purchased, and cannot identify what percentage of our revenues from sales of our temperature management product is derived from off-label use. We are aware, however, that physicians in the United States may be using our temperature management products off-label to treat cardiac arrest due to the 2010 American Heart Association recommendation that cooling after cardiac arrest be considered a Class 1 (Standard of Care) recommendation. A company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies, and even criminal sanctions. We do not believe any of our activities constitute promotion of off-label use, and we are actively engaged with the FDA on a trial in support of an indication for cardiac arrest but there can be no assurance that such a trial would generate data necessary to support this indication or that the FDA would approve this indication. Should the FDA determine, however, that our activities constitute promotion of off-label use, the FDA could bring action to prevent us from distributing our temperature management products within the United States for the off-label use, could impose fines and penalties on us and our executives, and could prohibit us from participating in government healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. 37 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 