ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves certain risks and uncertainties. In addition to the information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other filings that we make with the SEC, you should carefully read and consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially harm our business, operating results, financial position or cash flows (“financial performance”). In addition, our actual results could vary materially from any results expressed or implied by forward-looking statements contained in this report and in any of our other filings with the SEC and other communications by us, both written and oral, depending on a variety of factors, including the risks and uncertainties described below. It is not possible for us to predict the impact these factors could have on us or the extent to which any one factor, or combination of factors, may adversely affect our results. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Continued high unemployment, instability in the housing market, high energy and food costs and general economic uncertainty could result in a decline in consumer discretionary spending that would materially affect our financial performance. Dining out is a discretionary expense. Factors that affect consumer behavior and spending for restaurant dining, such as changes in general economic conditions (including national, regional and local economic conditions), discretionary spending patterns, employment levels, instability in the housing market, and high energy and food costs may have a material adverse effect on us. Leading economic indicators, such as unemployment and consumer confidence, remain volatile and may not show meaningful improvement in fiscal 2012. If economic conditions worsen, our financial performance could be adversely affected. Future growth in our revenues, profitability and earnings per share (EPS) depends heavily on improving our comparable restaurant sales. Future growth in our revenues, profits and EPS is highly dependent on our ability to grow comparable restaurant sales and leverage those sales gains by operating our business efficiently. Comparable restaurant sales changes occur as a result of (i) guest traffic increases or decreases, (ii) menu pricing and (iii) menu mix shifts. Decreases in comparable restaurant sales spread fixed costs across a lower level of sales, which may, in turn, cause downward pressure on our profitability. If we are unable to increase the guest traffic levels in our restaurants, it will likely hinder our ability to grow our comparable restaurant sales. Changes in guest traffic levels can be impacted by a variety of factors, including macroeconomic conditions and changes in customer discretionary spending (as discussed above), competition from other restaurants (both in the upscale casual dining segment and in other segments of the restaurant industry), consumer perception of our concepts’ offerings in terms of quality, price, value and service, changes in consumer eating habits, such as trends toward eating fewer calories and less salt and fats, and how guest experiences affect their desire to return to our restaurants. We utilize menu price increases to help offset inflation of key operating costs. If our menu price increases are not accepted by guests, resulting in reduced guest traffic, it could reduce our growth in comparable restaurant sales and negatively affect our profitability. If our menu price increases are insufficient to absorb or offset increased costs, it could negatively affect our financial performance. Menu mix can be negatively impacted as a result of guests managing their checks. If menu mix is unfavorable, it could offset some of the impact of our menu price increases, thereby reducing our comparable restaurant sales growth. Increases in food costs, raw materials and other supplies and services may have a material adverse impact on our financial performance. Our operating margins depend on, among other things, our ability to anticipate and react to changes in the costs of key operating resources, including food, beverage and bakery costs, utilities and other supplies and services. We attempt to negotiate short-term and long-term agreements for our principal commodity, supply and equipment requirements, depending on market conditions and expected demand. However, we are currently unable to contract for extended periods of time for certain of our commodities. Consequently, these commodities can be subject to unforeseen supply and cost fluctuations due to factors such as changes in demand patterns, increases in the cost of key inputs, fuel costs, weather and other market conditions outside of our control. 15 Table of Contents Dairy costs can also fluctuate due to government regulation. In addition, raw materials that we may purchase on the international market are subject to fluctuations in both the value of the U.S. dollar and increases in local demand, which may increase our costs and negatively impact our financial performance. Our suppliers also may be affected by higher costs to produce and transport commodities used in our restaurants and bakery manufacturing facilities, higher minimum wage and benefit costs, and other expenses that they pass through to their customers, which could result in higher costs for goods and services supplied to us. Competition in the restaurant industry in general, and specifically within the upscale casual segment of the restaurant industry, may adversely affect guest traffic at our restaurants. The restaurant industry is highly competitive with respect to price, value and promotions, service, location, and food quality. There are a number of other restaurant operators that compete with us for guest traffic, some of which have significantly greater resources to market aggressively to consumers, which could result in our concepts losing market share. We believe that many consumers remain focused on value, and if other restaurant operators are able to promote and deliver a higher degree of perceived value through heavy discounting or other methods, our guest traffic levels may decline, which would adversely impact our revenues and financial performance. In addition, with the increased variety of product offerings at fast casual restaurants, quick-service restaurants and grocery stores, consumers may choose to trade down to these alternatives, which could also negatively affect our financial performance. Our ability to secure an adequate number of high quality sites for new restaurant openings in the future could affect our ability to achieve our revenue and earnings per share growth targets. Our future revenue and EPS growth depend on the availability and selection of high quality sites that meet our criteria for new restaurant development. Our new restaurant development can be subject to unforeseen delays due to market conditions, the highly customized nature of our restaurant concepts, and the complex design, construction, and preopening processes for each new location. The lease negotiation and restaurant development timeframes also vary by location. Due to a slow economic recovery, many landlords continue to delay new projects or extensions and/or renovations of existing projects. Also, few retail developers are currently developing new projects for future years, which limits our choices to consider for growth of our restaurants. The number and timing of new restaurants opened during any given period, and their associated contribution to operating week growth for the period, will depend on a number of factors including, but not limited to: · the identification and availability of high quality locations and acceptable lease terms; · the availability of suitable financing for our landlords; · the financial viability of our landlords; · the timing of the delivery of the leased premises to us from our landlords in order to commence build-out construction activities; · the ability of our landlords and us to obtain all necessary governmental licenses and permits on a timely basis to construct and operate our restaurants; · our ability to successfully manage the design, construction and preopening processes for each restaurant, and the availability and/or cost of raw materials; · any unforeseen engineering or environmental problems with the leased premises; · adverse weather during the construction period; and · the availability of qualified operating personnel in the local market. Certain of our landlords and other tenants in retail centers in which we are located have been negatively impacted by the current weak economic recovery. If these conditions continue or worsen, it could further materially impact these parties, which in turn could negatively affect our financial performance. If the weak economic recovery continues, our landlords may be unable to obtain financing or remain in good standing under their existing financing arrangements, resulting in their inability to provide construction contributions or failure to satisfy other lease covenants to us. In addition, lenders are taking a more active role in reviewing tenant leases and prospective tenancies and have been more restrictive in approving tenancies and financing. This may affect our ability to lease sites on as favorable terms as we have received in the past. In addition, several tenants at retail centers in which we are located or have executed leases have ceased operations or, in some cases, have failed to open after committing to do so. If these failures continue, they could result in a reduction of guest traffic at retail centers in which we are located. In turn, this may contribute to a lower number of guest visits at our restaurants. Additionally, if 16 Table of Contents our landlords fail to satisfy required co-tenancies in our leases, such failures may result in us delaying openings or terminating leases in these locations. All of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our financial performance. Our business and future development could be harmed if we are unable to retain, or effectively respond to a loss of, key personnel. The success of our business continues to depend in critical respects on the contributions of David Overton, our co-founder, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and other senior executives of the Company. The loss of the services of Mr. Overton or other senior executives could have a material adverse effect on our business and plans for future development. We have adopted a succession plan that includes both emergency short-term and long-term planning elements to allow us to successfully continue operations should any of our senior management team become unavailable to us. However, there is a risk that we may not be able to implement the succession planning policy successfully or in a timely manner in all situations. If we are unable to successfully recruit and retain qualified restaurant management and operating personnel in an increasingly competitive market, our ability to effectively grow our business could be harmed. In addition to our senior executives, we must continue to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified management and operating personnel, including regional management, general managers and executive kitchen managers. Qualified individuals historically have been in short supply and an inability to attract them to our restaurant operations would limit our ability to expand our concepts effectively. The ability of these key personnel to maintain consistency in the service, hospitality, quality and atmosphere of our restaurants is a critical factor in our success. In addition, we will require the services of our senior management and operating personnel to support our international expansion efforts. Any failure by us to retain or recruit key personnel may harm the reputation of our brand and adversely affect our financial performance. If we are unable to offer our management personnel long term incentive compensation, including options and restricted stock, as part of their total compensation package, we may have difficulty retaining such personnel, which would adversely affect our operations and financial performance. We have historically granted equity awards, including non-qualified options and restricted stock awards and units, to key staff members, including our executives and our general managers and executive kitchen managers who run our restaurants, as part of a competitive compensation package. Our ability to grant equity compensation awards has been vital to attracting and retaining a talented management team and other talented and experienced individuals in an increasingly competitive marketplace. Equity awards have been an important part of our total compensation package and we believe that such compensation helps us have one of the highest retention rates in the industry for these positions. In the future, we may be required to ask our shareholders to approve additional issuances of long-term equity awards in order for our compensation packages to remain competitive in the industry. In connection with such requests, shareholder advisory groups have implemented guidelines and issued voting recommendations related to how much equity companies should be able to grant to employees. These advisory groups have been able to influence shareholder votes regarding approval of a company’s request for an increase in the number of shares it can issue as part of its equity plan. The factors used to formulate these guidelines and voting recommendations include the volatility of a company’s share price and are influenced by broader macro-economic conditions that can change year to year. Changes in the variables used by shareholder advisory groups to formulate equity plan recommendations may limit our ability to obtain approval to issue additional equity awards or adopt a new equity plan. If we are limited in our ability to grant equity compensation awards, we would need to offer equally compelling alternatives to supplement our compensation, including long-term cash compensation plans or significantly increased short-term cash compensation, in order to continue to attract and retain executives and other staff members. If we were required to use these alternatives to long-term equity awards, our compensation costs could increase and our financial performance could be adversely affected. Our success depends substantially on the value of our brands and our reputation for offering guests a unique total experience. We believe we have built a strong reputation for the quality and breadth of our menu items and bakery products, as part of the total experience that guests enjoy in our restaurants. We believe we must protect and grow the value of our brands to continue to be successful in the future. Any incident that erodes consumer trust in or affinity for our brands could be harmful to us. If consumers perceive or experience a reduction in food quality, service or ambiance, or in any way believe we failed to deliver a consistently positive experience, including in any future restaurants operated by licensees, our brand value could suffer. Negative publicity about us, our restaurants or bakery products and about other businesses across the food industry supply chain, whether or not accurate, could harm our business and financial performance. We dedicate substantial resources to ensuring the safety and quality of the food we serve to our guests. Nevertheless, we face food safety risks, including the risk of food-borne illness, that are common both in the restaurant industry and the food supply chain and that cannot be completely eliminated. Adverse publicity or news reports, whether or not accurate, regarding food quality or safety issues, illness, injury, health concerns, government or industry findings concerning food products served by us, or issues stemming 17 Table of Contents from the operation of our restaurants or bakery, restaurants operated by other foodservice providers or generally in the food supply chain, could be damaging to the restaurant industry overall and specifically harm our brand and reputation. The speed with which negative publicity (whether or not accurate) can be disseminated has increased dramatically with the advent of social media. If we are unable to quickly and effectively respond to such reports, we may suffer a decrease in guest traffic which could adversely impact our financial performance. Our growth strategy includes plans to expand our Grand Lux Cafe and potentially RockSugar Pan Asian Kitchen brands. Our inability to successfully expand and operate these brands in accordance with our strategic plan may negatively affect our long-term revenue and earnings per share targets. All of our restaurants are subject to the risks and uncertainties described in this filing. However, there is an enhanced level of risk and uncertainty related to the expansion of our less-established brands, Grand Lux Cafe and RockSugar Pan Asian Kitchen. We have made substantial investments in the development of these concepts and additional investments will be required in order for us to refine and expand each of these concepts. We can provide no assurance that these investments will be successful or that additional new unit growth will be accepted in the markets targeted for expansion of these concepts. Our international expansion and global brand development efforts could negatively affect our brand, require additional infrastructure to support, and expose us to additional liabilities under foreign laws. In January 2011, we entered into an exclusive licensing agreement with a Kuwait-based company to build and operate 22 The Cheesecake Factory restaurants over the next five years in the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, with the opportunity to expand the agreement to include other markets in the Middle East and North Africa, Central and Eastern Europe, Russia and Turkey. As of the date of this filing, we have no restaurants in locations other than the United States and have not previously licensed our brand, trained licensees to execute our The Cheesecake Factory concept or supported a third-party arrangement of this type. Our licensee is authorized to operate The Cheesecake Factory restaurant concept using our trademarks, trade dress, logos and systems and to provide our branded food and bakery products directly to consumers in The Cheesecake Factory restaurants to be opened in the licensed areas. The products and services our licensee delivers in our branded restaurants may be negatively affected by factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to: · difficulties in achieving the consistency of product quality and service as compared to restaurants we operate in the United States; · changes to our recipes required by cultural norms; · inability to obtain adequate and reliable supplies of ingredients and products necessary to execute our diverse menu; and · differences, changes or uncertainties in economic, regulatory, legal, social and political conditions. If these difficulties are attributed to us by guests in restaurants operated by our licensee, our reputation and brand value could be diminished. In order to support our international expansion, we entered into an agreement with our Middle East restaurant licensee whereby our bakery will supply certain of our branded bakery products to restaurants to be developed and operated by our licensee in the Middle East. In order to supply bakery products to our restaurants operating in the Middle East, our bakery must adapt certain recipes to eliminate prohibited ingredients, comply with labeling requirements that differ from the United States, and maintain certifications required to export to such countries. In addition, unexpected events outside of our control, such as trade restrictions, embargos, and disruptions in shipping, may affect our ability to transport adequate levels of bakery products to our licensee, for whom we are a sole source of supply for our branded desserts. A failure to adequately supply our licensee’s restaurants could affect the guest experience at their restaurants, result in decreased sales and, depending upon the reason for the failure, trigger contractual defaults on our part. As we expand our brand internationally, we will need to comply with regulations and legal requirements, including those related to the protection of our tradenames, trademarks and other intellectual property. (See “Failure to maximize or to successfully assert our intellectual property rights could impact our competitiveness” below.) We will have additional exposure to foreign tax laws and regulations which currently do not affect us. Additionally, we will need to comply with both domestic laws affecting United States businesses that operate internationally and foreign laws in the countries in which we expand our restaurants. (See also, “Changes in, or any failure to comply with, applicable laws or regulations could adversely affect our business and financial performance.”) Also, we may become subject to lawsuits or other legal actions resulting from the acts or omissions of our licensee and, even though we may have taken reasonable steps to protect against such liabilities, including by obtaining contractual indemnifications and insurance coverage, there is no assurance that we will not incur costs and expenses as a result of our licensee’s conduct, even when we are not legally liable. 18 Table of Contents If we are unable to appropriately scale our infrastructure in a timely manner to respond to domestic or international opportunities for growth, our ability to successfully expand our business and increase our results of operations may be harmed. We continually evaluate the appropriate level of infrastructure necessary to support our operational and development plans, including our international expansion. However, with respect to our domestic operations, if market conditions improve and we are able to identify enough high quality sites to significantly increase the planned number of new restaurant openings in the future, we may be unable to scale or manage the growth of our corporate and field supervision infrastructure in the short term to appropriately support our operations. Likewise, if sales decline, we may be unable to reduce our infrastructure quickly enough to prevent further sales deleveraging which would adversely affect our financial performance. With respect to our planned international expansion, our initial license agreement requires us to provide training and support to our licensee for its development and operation of The Cheesecake Factory restaurants in the Middle East. We currently do not have corporate personnel or staffing dedicated to international development and will need to utilize talents of existing management, some but not all of whom have prior experience in international operations, as we develop our international licensing and operations infrastructure. In addition, one of the most important aspects of our restaurant operations is our ability to deliver dependable, quality service by experienced staff members who can execute our concepts according to our high standards. This will initially require training our licensee’s management in the United States and our licensee’s staff in the licensed territories, as well as providing support in the selection and development of restaurant sites, product sourcing logistics, technological systems, and menu renovation. If we are unable to provide the appropriate level of infrastructure support to our licensee, our contractual relationship with our licensee and our future international expansion opportunities may be harmed. Our inability to renew our restaurant leases on similar terms and conditions, or at all, could harm our business and financial performance. We lease all of the premises in which our restaurants are located and plan to continue to do so in the future. Should we be unable to renew these leases on similar terms and conditions, or at all, we would be required to incur additional costs to operate our restaurants, including increased rent and other costs related to our occupancy of the leased premises, and costs for the relocation and development of a restaurant with respect to which a lease was not renewed. Additional costs related to the leasing and development of our restaurants could negatively affect our business and financial performance. Changes in, or any failure to comply with, applicable laws or regulations could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Various federal, state and local labor laws and regulations govern our operations and relationships with our staff members, including minimum wages, breaks, overtime, certain benefits (including health care benefits), safety, working conditions and citizenship and legal residency requirements. Changes in, or any failure to comply with, these laws and regulations could subject us to fines or legal actions. Settlements or judgments in connection therewith that are not insured or are in excess of our coverage limitations could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Despite our efforts to maintain compliance with legal requirements, some of our staff members may not meet federal citizenship or residency requirements. This could result in a disruption in our work force, sanctions against us and adverse publicity. In addition, immigration-related employment regulations, on both the state and federal level, may make it more difficult for us to identify and hire qualified staff members. Significant government-imposed increases in minimum wages, paid or unpaid leaves of absence and mandated health and/or COBRA benefits, or increased tax reporting, assessment or payment requirements related to our employees who receive gratuities, or changes in interpretations of existing law concerning meal and rest period breaks, could be detrimental to the profitability of our restaurants and bakery operations. Our staff members are subject to various minimum wage requirements. We operate in many states, including California, where the minimum wage is higher than the federal minimum and, in these states, our staff members receive compensation equal to the state’s minimum wage. There have been and may be additional minimum wage increases in excess of federal minimum wage implemented in various jurisdictions in which we operate or seek to operate. Minimum wage increases may have a material adverse effect on our labor costs. Our business is subject to extensive state and local government regulation in the various jurisdictions in which our restaurants and bakeries are located, including regulations relating to alcoholic beverage control, public health and safety, environmental hazards and food safety. The failure to obtain and/or retain licenses, permits or other regulatory approvals could delay or prevent the opening and/or continued operation of a restaurant in a particular area. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require each of our restaurants to obtain licenses and permits to sell alcoholic beverages on the premises. The failure of a restaurant to obtain or retain its licenses would adversely affect that restaurant’s operations and profitability, and could adversely affect our ability to obtain these licenses elsewhere. We may also be subject to dram shop statutes in certain states, which generally provide a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. A 19 Table of Contents settlement or judgment against us under a dram shop statute in excess of our general liability insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. In addition, as a manufacturer and distributor of food products, we are subject to a number of food safety and labeling laws and regulations including, but not limited to, the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the federal Food Safety Modernization Act. Failure to comply with these and other applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect our business and financial performance. In addition to domestic regulations, our planned international expansion will expose us to additional regulations, including antitrust and tax requirements, anti-boycott legislation, import/export and customs regulations and other international trade regulations, the USA Patriot Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. A failure by us to comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary fines and other sanctions which could harm our business and financial performance. Recent changes in regulations related to labor organizing could adversely affect our operations and harm our competitive position in the restaurant industry. While we believe we have good relations with our staff members and provide them with competitive pay and benefits, changes to certain rules and regulations regarding labor organizing efforts could prompt efforts by some of our staff members and others to attempt to unionize our workforce, which could increase our labor costs, limit our ability to manage our workforce effectively and cause disruptions to our operations. A loss of our ability to effectively manage our workforce and the compensation benefits we offer to our staff members could harm our business and financial performance. A reduction in bakery sales to third parties could adversely affect our financial performance. While one of the primary functions of our bakery is to provide quality, innovative dessert products to our branded restaurants, the profitability of our bakery operations depends on a number of factors including, but not limited to: · our ability to obtain and retain large-account customers; · our ability to pass on increases in the key costs of operations to our customers, in whole or in part; · macroeconomic conditions affecting consumers’ desire and ability to purchase our bakery product offerings; · our ability to appropriately adjust our bakery infrastructure and staffing to accommodate fluctuations in production, including increases which will be required to support our international expansion; and · our current reliance on three major warehouse customers for a substantial percentage of our external bakery sales. A decrease in sales and/or profitability from our bakery operations would have an adverse impact on our financial results. If we are unable to respond appropriately to changes in consumer health regulations and eating habits, our revenues could be adversely impacted. The federal government, as well as a number of states, counties and cities have enacted menu labeling laws requiring multi-unit restaurant operators to make certain nutritional information available to guests. Some states and local governments have also enacted legislation prohibiting the sales of certain types of ingredients in restaurants. The success of our restaurant operations depends, in part, upon our ability to respond effectively to changes in consumer health and disclosure regulations and to adapt our menu offerings to trends in eating habits. If consumer health regulations or consumer eating habits change significantly, we may be required to modify or discontinue certain menu items. In addition, dietary restrictions in some international locations in which our international licensee plans to operate may require us to modify or discontinue serving certain menu items. To the extent we are unable to respond with appropriate changes to our menu offerings, this could materially affect guest demand for our concepts and have an adverse impact on our revenues and financial performance. Increases in the cost of managing our business risks may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We retain the financial responsibility for a significant portion of our risks and associated liabilities with respect to workers’ compensation, general liability, employment practices, employee health benefits and other insurable risks through our self-insurance programs. Unfavorable fluctuations in market conditions or availability of such insurance or changes in local, state and/or federal regulations could significantly increase our self-insurance costs and insurance premiums. In addition, despite our efforts to control costs while still providing competitive health care benefits to our staff members, significant increases in health care costs continue to occur, and we can provide no assurance that our cost containment efforts in this area will be effective. In March 2010, the federal Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 became law. We are unable to accurately predict the impact of this federal health care legislation on our health care benefit costs due to continued uncertainty with respect to implementation of such legislation. Significant increases in such costs could adversely impact our operating results. In addition, several localities have adopted or are considering 20 Table of Contents adoption of health care related legislation affecting employers. There is no assurance that we will be able to absorb and/or pass through the costs of such legislation in a manner that will not adversely impact our operating results. Employment-related litigation continues to increase at both the state and federal levels, particularly with respect to claims styled as class action lawsuits, which are costly to defend. Also, some employment-related claims in the area of wage and hour disputes are not insurable risks. If our costs related to these claims continue to increase, our financial performance may be harmed. We recorded impairment charges in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2009. If general economic conditions deteriorate or, in some areas, fail to improve and/we are unable to appropriately scale our in-restaurant infrastructure to respond to weaknesses in the performance of certain of our locations, we may be required to record additional impairment charges in future periods that could affect our financial performance. We assess potential impairment of our long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets or asset group may not be recoverable. Factors considered include, but are not limited to, significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business, and significant negative industry or economic trends. We regularly review any restaurants that are cash flow negative for each of the previous four quarters to determine if impairment testing is warranted. At any given time, we may be monitoring a small number of locations, and future impairment charges could be required if individual restaurant performance does not improve. (See “Impairment of Long-Lived Assets” in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our impairment assessments.) In fiscal 2011, we recorded expense of $1.5 million, representing reductions to the carrying values of three previously impaired locations, consisting of one Grand Lux Cafe and two The Cheesecake Factory restaurants. During fiscal 2009, we recorded a $26.5 million impairment charge against four Grand Lux Cafe locations. No impairment charges were recorded in fiscal 2010. If the economic situation remains weak and/or we are unable to implement initiatives to appropriately scale our infrastructure in a timely manner, we may be required to record additional impairment charges in future periods that could negatively impact our financial performance. We rely heavily on our computer networks and infrastructure in the operation of our business. Information technology system failures or breaches of our network security could interrupt our operations and subject us to increased operating costs, as well as to litigation and other liabilities. We rely heavily on our computer systems and network infrastructure across our operations including, but not limited to, point-of-sale processing at our restaurants, and the systems we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen risks. Our operations depend upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and systems against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other catastrophic events, as well as from internal and external security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. We employ both internal resources and external consultants to conduct auditing and testing for weaknesses in our systems, controls, firewalls and encryption to reduce the likelihood of any security failures or breaches. However, we can provide no assurance that these security measures will be successful. In addition, our corporate support center is located in California, in an area prone to natural disasters such as earthquakes and wildfires. Any damage or failure of our computer systems or network infrastructure to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or breaches in the security of these systems could cause delays in customer service and reduce efficiency in our operations, and significant capital investments could be required to remediate the issue. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. A failure of our security measures could harm our reputation and financial results, as well as subject us to litigation or actions by regulatory authorities. A data security breach involving a guest or staff member’s personal data could negatively affect our business. We receive and maintain certain personal information about our guests and staff members. For example, we transmit confidential credit card information in connection with credit card transactions, and we are required to collect and maintain certain personal information in connection with our employment practices. The collection and use of this information by us is regulated at the federal and state levels, and the regulatory environment related to information security and privacy is increasingly demanding. If our security and information systems are compromised or our staff members or authorized third parties fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties, which could adversely affect our financial performance. In addition, our ability to accept credit cards as payment in our restaurants and on-line store depends on us remaining compliant with standards set by the PCI Security Standards Council. These standards require certain levels of system security and procedures to protect our customers’ credit card and other personal information. We employ both internal resources and external 21 Table of Contents consultants to conduct auditing and testing to reduce the likelihood of any security failures or breaches. However, we can provide no assurance that these security measures will be successful. Negative publicity resulting from a data security breach could significantly harm our reputation. We utilize third-party vendors to assist us with essential business processes, which may subject us to certain risks, including potential disruptions in business and increased costs. In order to leverage our internal resources and information technology infrastructure, and to support our business continuity planning efforts in the event of a physical loss or damage to our corporate facilities, we utilize third-party vendors to assist us with some of our essential business processes that depend on technology. In some instances, these processes are outsourced to the vendor in their entirety and in other instances we utilize these vendors’ externally-hosted business applications. Some of the processes for which we utilize third parties include, but are not limited to, gift card tracking and authorization, labor scheduling, and email hosting. While we work to ensure that all providers of outsourced services observe proper data security practices and internal control practices, such as redundant processing facilities, we cannot guarantee that failures will not occur. The failure of third-party vendors to provide adequate services, including protection of sensitive data, could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. Our inability or failure to execute on a comprehensive business continuity plan following a major natural or manmade disaster, including terrorism, at our corporate facility could materially adversely impact our business and our financial performance. Most of our corporate systems and processes and corporate support for our restaurant operations are centralized at one California location, with the exception of our construction and design department and our East Coast bakery production and fulfillment facility. We have disaster recovery procedures and a comprehensive business continuity plan in place to address most critical events, including back up and off-site locations for storage and recovery of electronic and other forms of data and information. However, if we are unable to fully execute our disaster recovery procedures, we may experience delays in recovery and losses of data, inability to perform vital corporate functions, tardiness in required reporting and compliance, failures to adequately support field operations and other breakdowns in normal operating procedures that could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and exposure to administrative and other legal claims. Litigation could have a material adverse impact on our business and our financial performance. We are subject to lawsuits, administrative proceedings and claims that arise in the regular course of business. These matters typically involve claims by guests, staff members and others regarding issues such as food borne illness, food safety, premises liability, compliance with wage and hour requirements, work-related injuries, discrimination, harassment, disability and other operational issues common to the foodservice industry. We could be adversely affected by negative publicity and litigation costs resulting from these claims, regardless of their validity. Significant legal fees and costs in complex class action litigation or an adverse judgment or settlement that is not insured or is in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We are self-insured, or carry insurance programs with high retention levels, for a significant portion of our risks and associated liabilities with respect to workers’ compensation, general liability, employer’s liability, health benefits and other insurable risks. We accrue liabilities for these programs based on our estimate of the ultimate costs to settle known claims as well as claims that are incurred but not reported. Significant judgment is required to estimate claims that have been incurred but not reported. If actual claims trends, including the severity or frequency of claims, differ from our estimates, our financial performance could be negatively impacted. Our business is somewhat seasonal, which could result in fluctuations in our financial performance from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations in that our restaurant sales are typically higher during the second and third quarters of the fiscal year, as well as during the Christmas holiday season. Our bakery revenue is seasonal to the extent that the fourth quarter’s sales are typically higher due to holiday-related orders and also may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year due to the timing and/or size of orders from large account bakery customers. As a result of these factors, our financial results for any single quarter or for periods of less than a year are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year. Adverse weather conditions and natural disasters could unfavorably impact our restaurant sales. Adverse weather conditions can impact guest traffic at our restaurants, cause the temporary underutilization of outdoor patio seating, and, in more severe cases, such as hurricanes or other natural disasters, cause temporary closure of our affected restaurants, sometimes for prolonged periods, which would negatively affect our restaurant sales. In addition, outdoor patio seating is available at most of our restaurants and accounts for approximately 20% of our seating capacity. Our inability to fully utilize our restaurants’ seating capacity as planned may negatively impact our revenues and financial performance. 22 Table of Contents New restaurant openings may negatively impact sales at our existing restaurants. We target high quality, high profile locations for our upscale and highly customized restaurants, and we believe that we draw guests from a much larger geographical area compared to most casual dining chain restaurants. The size of our restaurant trade areas varies by location, depending on a number of factors such as population density, demographics, retail, business, entertainment and other traffic generators and geography. As a result, the opening of a new restaurant could impact the sales of one or more of our existing restaurants nearby. It is not our intention to open new restaurants that materially cannibalize the sales of our existing restaurants. However, as with most growing retail and restaurant chain operations, there can be no assurance that such sales impact will not occur or become more significant in the future as we gradually increase our presence in existing markets to maximize our competitive position and financial performance in each market. Failure to maximize or to successfully assert our intellectual property rights could impact our competitiveness. We rely on trademark, trade secret and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property rights, both in the United States and internationally. We cannot be sure that these intellectual property rights will be maximized or that they can be successfully asserted. There is a risk that we will not be able to obtain and perfect our own, or, where appropriate, license intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions or other expansion, including to international markets. We cannot be sure that these rights, if obtained, will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future. In addition, even if such rights are obtained in the United States, the laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be sold or in which restaurants licensed under our brand names may operate in the future do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Our failure to perfect or successfully assert our intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Our failure to establish, maintain and apply adequate internal control over our financial reporting could affect our reported financial results. In addition, changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards could affect our reported financial results. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These provisions provide for the identification of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting — a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. If we experience a material weakness in internal controls, there can be no assurance that we will be able to remediate that material weakness in a timely manner or maintain all of the controls necessary to remain in compliance. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. Additionally, changes in accounting standards or new accounting pronouncements and interpretations may occur that could adversely affect our previously reported or future financial results. Our federal, state and local tax returns may, from time to time, be selected for audit by taxing authorities, which may result in tax assessments or penalties that could have a material adverse impact on our financial performance. We are subject to federal, state and local taxes. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the IRS or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken on our tax returns, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. Payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our financial performance. Failure to satisfy financial covenants and/or repayment requirements under our credit facility could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We have a five-year revolving credit facility (“Facility”) with a maximum available borrowing commitment of $200 million, which expires in December 2015. The Facility requires us to maintain certain financial covenants. At January 3, 2012, the last day of our 2011 fiscal year, we had no outstanding debt balance under such Facility. However, any failure to maintain these debt covenants or have sufficient liquidity to either repay or refinance the then outstanding balance at expiration of the Facility, or upon violation of the covenants, would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. (See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 for additional information concerning our long-term debt.) Risks Related to Owning Our Stock The market price of our common stock is subject to volatility. During fiscal 2011, the price of our common stock fluctuated between $23.65 and $34.07 per share. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, changes in financial estimates by research analysts with respect to us or others in the restaurant industry, actual or anticipated variations in our operating results or those of our competitors, and announcements of significant transactions (including mergers or acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures or other strategic initiatives) by us or others in the restaurant industry. In addition, the stock markets as a whole have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the stock price of many companies in ways that may have been unrelated to 23 Table of Contents an individual company’s operating performance. The price of our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile, based on factors specific to our company and industry, as well as factors related to the operation of the stock markets as a whole. There may be future sales or other dilution of our equity that may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue additional shares of common stock and additional classes or series of preferred stock without any action on the part of the stockholders. The Board of Directors also has the discretion, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over the common stock with respect to dividends or upon the liquidation or winding up of our business and other terms. If we issue preferred shares that have a preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred shares with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of our common stockholders or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. We have a shareholder rights plan, or poison pill, which could affect the price of our common stock and make it more difficult for a potential acquirer to purchase a large portion of our securities, to initiate a tender offer or a proxy contest, or to acquire us. In August 2008, our Board of Directors extended a shareholder rights plan, commonly known as a “poison pill,” until August 2018. The poison pill may discourage, delay, or prevent a third party from acquiring a large portion of our securities, initiating a tender offer or proxy contest, or acquiring the Company through an acquisition, merger or similar transaction, which may prevent a third party from consummating one of these transactions, even if our shareholders might receive a premium for their shares over then-current market prices. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 