Item 1A. Risk Factors. If We Fail to Compete Successfully in the Future against Existing or Potential Competitors, Our Operating Results May Be Adversely Affected. Our principal global competitors with respect to our entire cardiac resuscitation equipment product line are Physio-Control, Inc. (“Physio-Control”) and Royal Philips Electronics (“Philips”). Physio-Control is a subsidiary of Medtronic, Inc., a leading medical technology company, and has been the market leader in the defibrillator industry for over 20 years. As a result of Physio-Control’s dominant position in this industry, many potential customers have relationships with Physio-Control that could make it difficult for us to continue to penetrate the markets for our products. In addition, Physio-Control and Philips and other competitors each have significantly 21 Table of Contents greater resources than we do. Accordingly, Physio-Control, Philips and other competitors could substantially increase the resources they devote to the development and marketing of products that are competitive with ours. These and other competitors may develop and successfully commercialize medical devices that directly or indirectly accomplish what our products are designed to accomplish in a superior and/or less expensive manner. In addition, although our biphasic waveform technology is unique, our competitors have devised alternative biphasic waveform technology. Medtronic previously announced its intention to spin off its external defibrillator business into a separate publicly-traded company, and announced a suspension of U.S. shipments of its external defibrillators because of system quality issues. How these continuing developments will affect the competitive landscape in the future is unclear, but the Company has taken steps to pursue additional customers. There are a number of smaller competitors in the United States, which include Cardiac Science Corporation, Welch Allyn, Inc., HeartSine Technology, and Defibtech. Internationally, we face the same competitors as in the United States as well as Nihon Kohden, Corpuls, Schiller, and other local competitors. It is possible the market may embrace these competitors’ products, which could negatively impact our market share. Additional companies may enter the market. For example, GE Healthcare has announced its intention to enter the hospital market through cooperation with Cardiac Science Corporation. Their success may impair our ability to gain market share. In addition to external defibrillation and external pacing with cardiac resuscitation equipment, it is possible that other alternative therapeutic approaches to the treatment of sudden cardiac arrest may be developed. These alternative therapies or approaches, including pharmaceutical or other alternatives, could prove to be superior to our products. There is significant competition in the business of developing and marketing software for data collection, billing, scheduling, dispatching and management in the emergency medical system market. Our principal competitors in this business include Sansio, Healthware Technologies, Inc., Safety Pad Software, ImageTrend, Inc., eCore Software Solutions, Inc., PDSI Software, Inc., EnRoute Emergency Systems (formerly Geac Computer Corporation, Ltd.), DocuMed, Inc., Tritech Software Systems, Inc., Ortivus AB, RAM Software Systems, Inc., Intergraph Corporation, Affiliated Computer Services, Inc., Emergency Reporting, Inc., AmbPac, Inc., ESO Solutions, Golden Hour and Innovative Engineering, some of which have greater financial, technical, research and development and marketing resources than we do. Because the barriers to entry in this business are relatively low, additional competitors may easily enter this market in the future. It is possible that systems developed by competitors could be superior to our data management system. Consequently, our ability to sell our data management systems could be materially affected and our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. The Impact on the Company of the Suspension of Shipments by Physio-Control, a Division of Medtronic, May Be Difficult to Predict. Physio-Control, a division of Medtronic, announced the suspension of U.S. product shipments in January 2007 due to internal quality control issues. We believe our order flow may benefit from this suspension into 2008 and 2009. Any benefit from increased orders received through 2007 did not have a material impact on the Company, as we also increased spending on marketing programs and our selling organization. We cannot be assured that such increased spending initiatives will be effective. If our expectations of future benefits do not materialize, our stock price could fluctuate. It is Possible that if Competitors Increase Their Use of Price Discounting, Our Gross Margins Could Decline. Some competitors have, from time to time, used price discounting in order to attempt to gain market share. If this activity were to increase in the future it is possible that our gross margin and overall profitability could be adversely affected if we decided to respond in kind. 22 Table of Contents Our Operating Results are Likely to Fluctuate, Which Could Cause Our Stock Price to be Volatile, and the Anticipation of a Volatile Stock Price Can Cause Greater Volatility. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate. Various factors have and may continue to affect our operating results, including: • high demand for our products, which could disrupt our normal factory utilization and cause shipments to occur in uneven patterns; • variations in product orders; • timing of new product introductions; • temporary disruptions of buying behavior due to changes in technology (e.g., shift to biphasic technology); • changes in distribution channels; • actions taken by our competitors such as the introduction of new products or the offering of sales incentives; • the ability of our sales forces to effectively market our products; • supply interruptions from our single-source vendors; • temporary manufacturing disruptions; • regulatory actions, including actions taken by the FDA or similar agencies; and • delays in obtaining domestic or foreign regulatory approvals. A large percentage of our sales are made toward the end of each quarter. As a consequence, our quarterly financial results are often dependent on the receipt of customer orders in the last weeks of a quarter. The absence of these orders could cause us to fall short of our quarterly sales targets, which, in turn, could cause our stock price to decline sharply. As we grow in size, and these orders are received closer to the end of a period, we may not be able to manufacture, test, and ship all orders in time to recognize the shipment as revenue for that quarter. Based on these factors, period-to-period comparisons should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. In anticipation of less successful quarterly results, parties may take short positions in our stock. The actions of parties shorting our stock might cause even more volatility in our stock price. The volatility of our stock may cause the value of a stockholder’s investment to decline rapidly. The AED PAD (Public Access Defibrillation) Business is Highly Dynamic. If We are Not Successful in Competing In This Market, Our Operating Results May be Affected. The PAD market has many new dynamics. This market involves many new types of non-traditional healthcare distributors, and the efficiency of these distributors may not be as robust as we expect. These new types of distributors may present credit risks since they may not be well established and may not have the necessary business volumes. In addition, we may not be successful in gaining greater market acceptance of our AED Plus into alternative PAD markets if our PAD distributors are not successful. All of these items could cause our operating results to be unfavorably affected. We have noticed that as the PAD market has grown, there have been an increasing number of smaller, start-up companies entering the market. In order to gain market share, these companies compete mainly on price. If these companies are able to capture a larger market share with lower prices, this may cause declining prices and negatively affect our operating results. Also, the internet is playing a bigger role in generating sales of AEDs. This could result in lower pricing. Two of our major competitors participate in the home market. We also sell to the home market and if our plan turns out to be less effective or efficient, we might have difficulty building market share. 23 Table of Contents We Acquired New Products Such as the AutoPulse, Power Infuser, and LifeVest. If We Are Not Successful in Growing Our Business with These Products, Our Operating Results May Be Affected. We have acquired the AutoPulse, an automated non-invasive cardiac support pump, the Power Infuser, a device that provides highly controlled, rapid delivery of intraveneous (IV) fluids to trauma victims, the LifeVest, a wearable external defibrillator system, and catheter-based hypothermia technology. As part of the successful development of the market for these products, where applicable, we must: • establish new marketing and sales strategies; • identify respected health professionals and organizations to champion the products; • work with potential customers to develop new sources of unbudgeted funding; • conduct successful clinical trials; and • achieve early success for the product in the field. If we are delayed or fail to achieve these market development initiatives, we may encounter difficulties building our customer base for these products. Sub-par results from any of these items, such as inconclusive results from clinical trials, could cause our operating results to be unfavorably affected. Our Approach to Our Backlog Might Not Be Successful. We maintain a backlog in order to generate operating efficiencies. If order rates are insufficient to maintain such a backlog, we may be subject to operating inefficiencies. We May be Required to Implement a Costly Product Recall. In the event that any of our products proves to be defective, we can voluntarily recall, or the FDA could require us to redesign or implement a recall of, any of our products. Both our larger competitors and we have, on numerous occasions, voluntarily recalled products in the past, and based on this experience, we believe that future recalls could result in significant costs to us and significant adverse publicity, which could harm our ability to market our products in the future. Though it may not be possible to quantify the economic impact of a recall, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the Healthcare Industry May Require Us to Decrease the Selling Price for Our Products or Could Result in a Reduction in the Size of the Market for Our Products, Each of Which Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Financial Performance. Trends toward managed care, healthcare cost containment, and other changes in government and private sector initiatives in the United States and other countries in which we do business are placing increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical therapies, which could adversely affect the sale and/or the prices of our products. For example: • major third-party payers of hospital and pre-hospital services, including Medicare, Medicaid and private healthcare insurers, have substantially revised their payment methodologies during the last few years, which has resulted in stricter standards for reimbursement of hospital and pre-hospital charges for certain medical procedures; • Medicare, Medicaid and private healthcare insurer cutbacks could create downward price pressure in the cardiac resuscitation pre-hospital market; • numerous legislative proposals have been considered that would result in major reforms in the U.S. healthcare system, which could have an adverse effect on our business; • there has been a consolidation among healthcare facilities and purchasers of medical devices in the United States who prefer to limit the number of suppliers from whom they purchase medical products, and these entities may decide to stop purchasing our products or demand discounts on our prices; 24 Table of Contents • there is economic pressure to contain healthcare costs in international markets; • there are proposed and existing laws and regulations in domestic and international markets regulating pricing and profitability of companies in the healthcare industry; and • there have been initiatives by third-party payers to challenge the prices charged for medical products, which could affect our ability to sell products on a competitive basis. Both the pressure to reduce prices for our products in response to these trends and the decrease in the size of the market as a result of these trends could adversely affect our levels of revenues and profitability of sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. General Economic Conditions May Cause Our Customers to Delay Buying Our Products Resulting in Lower Revenues. The national economy of the United States and the global economy are both subject to economic downturns. An economic downturn in any market in which we sell our products may have a significant impact on the ability of our customers, in both the hospital and pre-hospital markets, to secure adequate funding to buy our products or might cause purchasing decisions to be delayed. Any delay in purchasing our products may result in decreased revenues and also allow our competitors additional time to develop products that may have a competitive edge, making future sales of our products more difficult. For example, over the last few years in the U.S., many states experienced deficits and shortfalls of revenue to cover expenditures. As a result, states cut their spending and support to local cities and towns, who then in turn reduced their spending for capital equipment purchases for their EMS services. We believe that this had a negative impact on our revenues in the North American EMS market. We Can be Sued for Producing Defective Products and We May be Required to Pay Significant Amounts to Those Harmed If We are Found Liable, and Our Business Could Suffer from Adverse Publicity. The manufacture and sale of medical products such as ours entail significant risk of product liability claims, and product liability claims are made against us from time to time. Our quality control standards comply with FDA requirements and we believe that the amount of product liability insurance we maintain is adequate based on past product liability claims in our industry. We cannot be assured that the amount of such insurance will be sufficient to satisfy claims made against us in the future or that we will be able to maintain insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts. Product liability claims could result in significant costs or litigation. A product liability lawsuit is currently pending. A successful claim brought against us in excess of our available insurance coverage or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recurring Sales of Electrodes to Our Customers May Decline. We typically have recurring sales of electrodes to our customers. Other vendors have developed electrode adaptors that allow generic electrodes to be compatible with our defibrillators. If we are unable to continue to differentiate the superiority of our electrodes over these generic electrodes, our future revenue from the sale of electrodes could be reduced, or our pricing and profitability could decline. Failure to Produce New Products or Obtain Market Acceptance for Our New Products in a Timely Manner Could Harm Our Business. Because substantially all of our revenue comes from the sale of cardiac resuscitation devices and related products, our financial performance will depend upon market acceptance of, and our ability to deliver and support, new products. We cannot be assured that we will be able to produce viable products in the time frames we currently estimate. Factors which could cause delay in these schedules or even cancellation of our projects to 25 Table of Contents produce and market these new products include: research and development delays, the actions of our competitors producing competing products, and the actions of other parties who may provide alternative therapies or solutions, which could reduce or eliminate the markets for pending products. The degree of market acceptance of any of our products will depend on a number of factors, including: • our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner; • our ability to successfully implement new product technologies; • the market’s readiness to accept new products; • the standardization of an automated platform for data management systems; • the clinical efficacy of our products and the outcome of clinical trials; • the ability to obtain timely regulatory approval for new products; and • the prices of our products compared to the prices of our competitors’ products. If our new products do not achieve market acceptance, our financial performance could be adversely affected. Our Dependence on Sole and Single Source Suppliers Exposes Us to Supply Interruptions and Manufacturing Delays Caused by Faulty Components, Which Could Result in Product Delivery Delays and Substantial Costs to Redesign Our Products. Although we use many standard parts and components for our products, some key components are purchased from sole or single source vendors for which alternative sources at present are not readily available. For example, we currently purchase proprietary components, including capacitors, display screens, gate arrays and integrated circuits, for which there are no direct substitutes. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of these components as well as our limited ability to deal with faulty components may result in future delays or reductions in product shipments, which could cause a fluctuation in our results of operations. These or any other components could be replaced with alternatives from other suppliers, which could involve a redesign of our products. Such a redesign could involve considerable time and expense. We could be at risk that the supplier might experience difficulties meeting our needs. If our manufacturers are unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing our components in required volumes, we will have to transfer manufacturing to acceptable alternative manufacturers whom we have identified, which could result in significant interruptions of supply. The manufacture of these components is complex, and our reliance on the suppliers of these components exposes us to potential production difficulties and quality variations, which could negatively impact the cost and timely delivery of our products. Accordingly, any significant interruption in the supply, or degradation in the quality, of any component would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We May Not be Able to Obtain Appropriate Regulatory Approvals for Our New Products. The manufacture and sale of our products are subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities, principally the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies. The FDA administers the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Some of our products have been classified by the FDA as Class II devices and others, such as our AEDs, have been classified as Class III devices. All of these devices must secure a 510(k) pre-market notification clearance before they can be introduced into the U.S. market. The process of obtaining 510(k) clearance typically takes several months and may involve the submission of limited clinical data supporting assertions that the product is substantially equivalent to an already approved device or to a device that was on the market before the Medical Device 26 Table of Contents Amendments of 1976. Delays in obtaining 510(k) clearance could have an adverse effect on the introduction of future products. Moreover, approvals, if granted, may limit the uses for which a product may be marketed, which could reduce or eliminate the commercial benefit of manufacturing any such product. We are also subject to regulation in each of the foreign countries in which we sell products. Many of the regulations applicable to our products in such countries are similar to those of the FDA. However, the national health or social security organizations of certain countries require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed in those countries. We cannot be assured that such clearances will be obtained. If We Fail to Comply With Applicable Regulatory Laws and Regulations, the FDA and Other U.S. and Foreign Regulatory Agencies Could Exercise Any of Their Regulatory Powers, Which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business. Every company that manufactures or assembles medical devices is required to register with the FDA and to adhere to certain quality systems, which regulate the manufacture of medical devices and prescribe record keeping procedures and provide for the routine inspection of facilities for compliance with such regulations. The FDA also has broad regulatory powers in the areas of clinical testing, marketing and advertising of medical devices. To ensure that manufacturers adhere to good manufacturing practices, medical device manufacturers are routinely subject to periodic inspections by the FDA. If the FDA believes that a company may not be operating in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, it could take any of the following actions: • place the company under observation and re-inspect the facilities; • issue a warning letter apprising of violating conduct; • detain or seize products; • mandate a recall; • enjoin future violations; and • assess civil and criminal penalties against the company, its officers or its employees. We, like most of our U.S. competitors, have received warning letters from the FDA in the past, and may receive warning letters in the future. We have always complied with the warning letters we have received. However, our failure to comply with FDA regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including restrictions on the marketing or recall of our products. These sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business. If a foreign regulatory agency believes that we are not operating in compliance with their laws and regulations, they could prevent us from selling our products in their country, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are Dependent upon Licensed and Purchased Technology for Upgradeable Features in Our Products, and We May Not Be Able to Renew These Licenses or Purchase Agreements in the Future. We license and purchase technology from third parties for upgradeable features in our products, including a 12 lead analysis program, SPO2, EtCO2, and NIBP technologies. We anticipate that we will need to license and purchase additional technology to remain competitive. We may not be able to renew our existing licenses and purchase agreements or to license and purchase other technologies on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to renew our existing licenses and purchase agreements or we are unable to license or purchase new technologies, we may not be able to offer competitive products. Fluctuations in Currency Exchange Rates May Adversely Affect Our International Sales. Our revenue from international operations can be denominated in or significantly influenced by the currency and general economic climate of the country in which we make sales. A decrease in the value of such foreign 27 Table of Contents currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could result in downward price pressure for our products or losses from currency exchange rate fluctuations. As we continue to expand our international operations, downward price pressure and exposure to gains and losses on foreign currency transactions may increase. We may continue our use of forward contracts and other instruments in the future to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations from intercompany accounts receivable and forecasted intercompany sales to our subsidiaries denominated in foreign currencies, and we may not be able to do this successfully. Accordingly, we may experience economic loss and a negative impact on our results of operations and equity as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Our Current and Future Investments May Lose Value in the Future. We hold investments in two private companies and may in the future invest in the securities of other companies and participate in joint venture agreements. These investments and future investments are subject to the risks that the entities in which we invest will become bankrupt or lose money. Investing in other businesses involves risks and no assurance can be made as to the profitability of any investment. Our inability to identify profitable investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Unless we hold a majority position in an investment or joint venture, we will not be able to control all of the activities of the companies in which we invest or the joint ventures in which we are participating. Because of this, such entities may take actions against our wishes and not in furtherance of, and even opposed to, our business plans and objectives. These investments are also subject to the risk of impasse if no one party exercises ultimate control over the business decisions. Future Changes in Applicable Laws and Regulations Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business. Federal, state or foreign governments may change existing laws or regulations or adopt new laws or regulations that regulate our industry. Changes in or adoption of new laws or regulations could result in the following consequences that would have an adverse effect on our business: • regulatory clearance previously received for our products could be revoked; • costs of compliance could increase; or • we may be unable to comply with such laws and regulations so that we would be unable to sell our products. Compliance With Changing Regulation of Corporate Governance, Public Disclosure and Accounting Matters May Result in Additional Expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market, as well as new accounting pronouncements, are creating uncertainty and additional complexities for companies. To maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we continue to invest resources to comply with evolving standards. This investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating and cost-management activities. The provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 first applied to us for the fiscal year 2005. Accordingly, we completed a project to document, review, test, evaluate and conclude on our systems of internal controls. We have also completed our testing of our internal control systems and we did not identify any material weaknesses in our system of internal controls in fiscal 2005, 2006, or 2007. We continue to monitor our internal 28 Table of Contents control environment and perform testing as required by Section 404 rules. There can be no guarantee that, in the future, we will not detect the existence of a material control weakness. Disclosure of a material weakness in our system of internal control may cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly. Uncertain Customer Decision Processes May Result in Long Sales Cycles, Which Could Result in Unpredictable Fluctuations in Revenues and Delay the Replacement of Cardiac Resuscitation Devices. Many of the customers in the pre-hospital market consist of municipal fire and emergency medical systems departments. As a result, there are numerous decision-makers and governmental procedures in the decision-making process. In addition, decisions at hospitals concerning the purchase of new medical devices are sometimes made on a department-by-department basis. Accordingly, we believe the purchasing decisions of many of our customers may be characterized by long decision-making processes, which have resulted in and may continue to result in long sales cycles for our products. For example, the sales cycles for cardiac resuscitation products typically have been between six to nine months, although some sales efforts have taken as long as two years. Reliance on Domestic and International Distributors to Sell Our Products Exposes Us to Business Risks That Could Result in Significant Fluctuations in Our Results of Operations. Although we perform credit assessments with sales to distributors, payment by the distributor may be affected by the financial stability of the customers to which the distributor sells. Future sales to distributors may also be affected by the distributor’s ability to successfully sell our products to their customers. Either of these scenarios could result in significant fluctuations in our results of operations. Our International Sales Expose Our Business to a Variety of Risks That Could Result in Significant Fluctuations in Our Results of Operations. Approximately 28% of our sales for fiscal 2007 were made to foreign purchasers and we plan to increase the sale of our products to foreign purchasers in the future. As a result, a significant portion of our sales is and will continue to be subject to the risks of international business, including: • fluctuations in foreign currencies; • trade disputes; • changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers; • consequences of failure to comply with U.S. law and regulations concerning the conduct of business outside the U.S.; • the possibility of quotas, duties, taxes or other changes or restrictions upon the importation or exportation of the products being implemented by the United States or these foreign countries; • timing and availability of import/export licenses; • political and economic instability; • higher credit risk and difficulties in accounts receivable collections; • increased tax exposure if our revenues in foreign countries are subject to taxation by more than one jurisdiction; • accepting customer purchase orders governed by foreign laws, which may differ significantly from U.S. laws and limit our ability to enforce our rights under such agreements and to collect damages, if awarded; • war on terrorism; 29 Table of Contents • disruption in the international transportation industry; and • use of international distributors. As international sales become a larger portion of our total sales, these risks could create significant fluctuations in our results of operations. These risks could affect our ability to resell trade-in products to domestic distributors, who in turn often resell the trade-in products in international markets. Our inability to sell trade-in products might require us to offer lower trade-in values, which might impact our ability to sell new products to customers desiring to trade in older models and then purchase newer products. We intend to continue to expand our direct sales forces and our marketing support for these sales forces. We intend to continue to expand these areas, but if our sales forces are not effective, or if there is a sudden decrease in the markets where we have direct operations, we could be adversely affected. We May Fail to Adequately Protect or Enforce Our Intellectual Property Rights or Secure Rights to Third Party Intellectual Property, and Our Competitors Can Use Some of Our Previously Proprietary Technology. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We hold over 120 U.S. and over 70 foreign patents for our various inventions and technologies. Additional patent applications have been filed with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and outside the U.S. and are currently pending. The patents that have been granted to us are for a definitive period of time and will expire. We have filed certain corresponding foreign patent applications and intend to file additional foreign and U.S. patent applications as appropriate. We cannot be assured as to: • the degree and range of protection any patents will afford against competitors with similar products; • if and when patents will be issued; • whether or not others will obtain patents claiming aspects similar to those covered by our patent applications; • whether or not competitors will use information contained in our expired patents; • whether or not others will design around our patents or obtain access to our know-how; or • the extent to which we will be successful in avoiding any patents granted to others. We have, for example, patents and pending patent applications for our proprietary biphasic technology. Our competitors could develop biphasic technology that has comparable or superior clinical efficacy to our biphasic technology and if our patents do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors would be able to obtain patents claiming aspects similar to our biphasic technology or our competitors could design around our patents. If certain patents issued to others are upheld or if certain patent applications filed by others issue and are upheld, we may be: • required to obtain licenses or redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement; • prevented from practicing the subject matter claimed in those patents; or • required to pay damages. There is substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device industry, some of which involves the Company. Litigation or administrative proceedings, including interference proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, related to intellectual property rights have been and in the future could be brought against us or be initiated by us. Adverse determinations in any patent litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, could require us to seek licenses from third parties and could, if 30 Table of Contents licenses are not available, prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using certain of our products, some of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, the costs of any such proceedings may be substantial whether or not we are successful. Our success is also dependent upon the skills, knowledge and experience, none of which is patentable, of our scientific and technical personnel. To help protect our rights, we require all U.S. employees, consultants and advisors to enter into confidentiality agreements, which prohibit the disclosure of confidential information to anyone outside of our Company and require disclosure and assignment to us of their ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions. We cannot be assured that these agreements will provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure of the lawful development by others of such information. If There is an Adverse Outcome in the Adept Litigation the Company Could be Required to Pay a Larger Sum of Money Than We Have Accrued, Which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Financial Condition. Further, Defending Against This Lawsuit May Continue to be Expensive and Could Divert the Attention of Our Management. In the lawsuit against the Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, ZOLL Data Systems, Inc. (ZDS) captioned Adept Computer Solutions, Inc. v. ZOLL Data Systems et al, pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of Colorado (see Item 3), the plaintiff is seeking damages for breach of contract, copyright infringement, and violations of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA). These claims arise out of the incorporation of the plaintiff’s mapping software product into a ZDS product sold to ZDS customers. ZDS is defending itself vigorously in this litigation, which is now in the trial stage. Plaintiff recently made a settlement demand in the amount of $4.3 million, which the Company deems to be unreasonable in light of its assessment of its potential liability in the matter. Although ZDS made unauthorized copies of plaintiff’s software program based on the expectation that it would reach an agreement with plaintiff on an appropriate royalty and other licensing terms, the Company believes that any liability ZDS may have to the plaintiff should be substantially less than the plaintiff’s demand. However, as with any litigation proceeding, we cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of this pending lawsuit. Furthermore, we have to date incurred, and will continue to incur additional significant legal fees in connection with this lawsuit. In the event of an adverse outcome we could be required to pay a larger sum than we have accrued, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Reliance on Overseas Vendors for Some of the Components for Our Products Exposes Us to International Business Risks, Which Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business. Some of the components we use in our products are acquired from foreign manufacturers, particularly countries located in Europe and Asia. As a result, a significant portion of our purchases of components is subject to the risks of international business. The failure to obtain these components as a result of any of these risks can result in significant delivery delays of our products, which could have an adverse effect on our business. We May Acquire Other Businesses, and We May Have Difficulty Integrating These Businesses or Generating an Acceptable Return from Acquisitions. We acquired Revivant (now ZOLL Circulation, Inc.) and the assets of each of Infusion Dynamics, Lifecor (now ZOLL Lifecor Corporation), Radiant Corporation (now part of ZOLL Circulation), and BIO-key International, Inc.’s fire records management software business (now a part of ZOLL Data Systems). We may acquire other companies or make strategic purchases of interests in other companies related to our business in order to grow, add product lines, acquire customers or otherwise attempt to gain a competitive advantage in new or existing markets. Such acquisitions and investments may involve the following risks: • our management may be distracted by these acquisitions and may be forced to divert a significant amount of time and energy into integrating and running the acquired businesses; 31 Table of Contents • we may face difficulties associated with financing the acquisitions; • we may face the inability to achieve the desired outcomes justifying the acquisition; • we may face difficulties integrating the acquired business’ operations and personnel; and • we may face difficulties incorporating the acquired technology into our existing product lines. Intangibles and Goodwill We Currently Carry on Our Balance Sheet May Become Impaired. At September 30, 2007, we had approximately $74 million of goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet. These assets are subject to impairment if the cash flow that we generate from these assets specifically, or our business more broadly, are insufficient to justify the carrying value of the assets. Factors affecting our ability to generate cash flow from these assets include, but are not limited to, general market conditions, product acceptance, pricing and competition, distribution, costs of production and operations. Provisions in Our Charter Documents, Our Shareholder Rights Agreement and State Law May Make It Harder for Others To Obtain Control of ZOLL Even Though Some Stockholders Might Consider Such a Development to be Favorable. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of such shares without further vote or action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of Common Stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for third parties to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. In addition, our restated articles of organization provide for staggered terms for the members of the board of directors, which could delay or impede the removal of incumbent directors and could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving the Company more difficult. Our restated articles of organization, restated by-laws and applicable Massachusetts law also impose various procedural and other requirements that could delay or make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us more difficult. We have also implemented a so-called poison pill by adopting our shareholders rights agreement. This poison pill significantly increases the costs that would be incurred by an unwanted third party acquirer if such party owns or announces its intent to commence a tender offer for more than 15% of our outstanding Common Stock or otherwise “triggers” the poison pill by exceeding the applicable stock ownership threshold. The existence of this poison pill could delay, deter or prevent a takeover of the Company. All of these provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Common Stock, which could preclude our shareholders from recognizing a premium over the prevailing market price of our stock. We Have Only One Manufacturing Facility for Each of Our Major Products and Any Damage or Incapacitation of Any of the Facilities Could Impede Our Ability to Produce These Products. We have only one manufacturing facility for each of our major products. Damage to any such facility could render us unable to manufacture the relevant product or require us to reduce the output of products at the damaged facility. In addition, a severe weather event, other natural disaster or any other significant disruption affecting a facility occurring late in a quarter could make it difficult to meet product shipping targets. Any of these events could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company Holds Various Marketable Securities Investments Which Are Subject to Market Risk, Including Volatile Interest Rates, A Volatile Stock Market, Etc. Management believes it has a conservative investment policy. It calls for investing in high quality investment grade securities with an average duration of 24 months or less. However, with the volatility of interest 32 Table of Contents rates and fluctuations in credit quality of the underlying investments, there can be no assurance that the Company’s investments will not lose value. Management does not believe it has material exposure currently. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 