ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves risks and uncertainties. In addition to the information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other filings that we make with the SEC, you should carefully read and consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially harm our business, operating results, earnings per share (EPS), financial position, cash flows or trading price of our common stock (individually and collectively referred to as our “financial performance”). In addition, our actual results could vary materially from any results expressed or implied by forward-looking statements contained in this report and in any of our other filings with the SEC and other communications by us, both written and oral, depending on a variety of factors, including the risks and uncertainties described below. It is not possible for us to predict all possible risks or the impact these factors could have on us or the extent to which any one factor, or combination of factors, may adversely affect our financial performance. Risks Related to Our Business and Financial Performance If the challenging and uncertain global and domestic economic conditions do not meaningfully improve, consumer discretionary spending may suffer, which will negatively impact our business and financial performance. Dining out is a discretionary expenditure. A prolonged economic recovery or material changes with respect to governmental responses to domestic and international fiscal concerns could result in additional declines in consumer discretionary spending, which could materially affect our financial performance. While consumer confidence has begun to improve, it remains volatile and has not reached the pre-recessionary levels on a consistent basis. Similarly, unemployment has made gradual improvements since 2008 but is still well above what most economists consider to be full employment. Furthermore, ongoing macroeconomic concerns include, but are not limited to, uncertainty around long-term U.S. fiscal and monetary policy, the sustainability of the U.S. housing recovery and the overall rate of global economic growth. All of these factors, and others, will likely influence leading economic indicators such as consumer confidence. If the economic conditions do not meaningfully improve, the slow-paced U.S. economic recovery may not continue, and our financial performance will be materially affected. If we are unable to improve comparable restaurant sales, we may be unable to grow revenues, profitability or EPS, which may adversely impact our financial performance. Changes in comparable restaurant sales occur as a result of (i) guest traffic increases or decreases, (ii) menu price increases, and (iii) menu mix shifts. If we are unable to grow comparable restaurant sales and costs increase, or if comparable restaurant sales decrease and costs remain flat or increase, the effect is to spread costs across a lower level of sales, which may, in turn, cause downward pressure on our financial performance. 14 Table of Contents If we are unable to increase guest traffic in our restaurants, our ability to grow our comparable restaurant sales will be hindered. Changes in guest traffic can be impacted by a variety of factors, including macroeconomic conditions that impact customer discretionary spending, competition from other restaurants (both in the upscale casual dining segment and in other segments of the restaurant industry), consumer perception of our concepts’ offerings in terms of quality, price, value and service, changes in consumer eating habits, including substituting other dining options (such as grocery prepared meals or mobile catering) for restaurant dining experiences, weather patterns, changes in the trade areas in which our restaurants are located and changes in the regulatory environment. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in achieving increases in guest traffic. We utilize menu price increases to help offset inflation of key operating costs. If our menu price increases are not accepted by guests, resulting in reduced guest traffic, it could reduce our growth in comparable restaurant sales and negatively affect our financial performance. If our menu price increases are insufficient to absorb or offset increased costs, it could negatively affect our financial performance. Menu mix can be negatively impacted by guests purchasing fewer menu items or lower cost menu items. Unfavorable menu mix could result from unfavorable perceptions of certain menu items or from guests managing their checks downwards. Unfavorable menu mix could reduce our average check, negatively impacting our ability to grow comparable restaurant sales, which could negatively affect our financial performance. If we are unable to protect the value of our brands and our reputation, sales at some or all of our restaurants may be negatively impacted, which may adversely affect our financial performance. We believe we have built a strong reputation for the quality and breadth of our menu items and bakery products, as part of the total experience that guests enjoy in our restaurants. We believe we must protect and grow the global value of our brands to continue to be successful in the future. Any incident that erodes consumer trust in or affinity for our brands could be harmful to our financial performance. If we experience negative publicity relating to food quality, restaurant facilities, customer complaints or litigation alleging illness or injury, health inspection scores, sanitary or other issues with food processing activities by us or our suppliers, labor relations or compliance with applicable regulations or standards, among others, regardless of the ultimate findings regarding the subject matter of such negative publicity, sales at some or all of our restaurants may be adversely impacted, harming our financial performance. With the growth in importance and impact of social media over the last few years, any negative publicity may be magnified and reach a large portion of the customer base in a very short time period. In addition, if consumers perceive or experience a reduction in food quality, service or ambiance, if there are allegations, regardless of accuracy, of food-borne illnesses, food tampering or contamination, or if we fail to deliver a consistently positive experience, including in restaurants operated by our international licensees, our brand value and consequently our financial performance could suffer. Increases in the cost of food, labor, and other supplies and services will increase our cost of doing business, which may adversely impact our financial performance. Our operating margins depend on, among other things, our ability to anticipate and react to changes in the costs of key operating resources, including food, labor, utilities and other supplies and services. We attempt to negotiate short-term and long-term agreements for our principal commodity, supply and equipment requirements, depending on market conditions and expected demand. However, we are currently unable to contract for extended periods of time for certain of our commodities. Consequently, these commodities may be subject to unforeseen supply and cost fluctuations due to factors such as changes in demand patterns, increases in the cost of key inputs, fuel costs, weather and other market conditions outside of our control. Commodities, such as dairy and corn, can fluctuate significantly due to government regulation. Raw materials that we may purchase on the international market are subject to fluctuations in both the value of the U.S. dollar and increases in global demand. Our suppliers also may incur higher costs to produce and transport commodities used in our restaurants and bakery manufacturing facilities, higher minimum wage and benefit costs, and other expenses that they pass through to us, which could result in higher costs for goods and services supplied to us. Increases in minimum wage, health care costs and other benefit costs may have a material adverse effect on our labor costs. We operate in many states and localities, including California, where the minimum wage is higher than the federal minimum wage, and in such states our staff members receive minimum compensation equal to the state’s or such locality’s minimum wage. In other states, a portion of our employees may be paid a tip credit wage that is supplemented by gratuities received from our customers. Increases in the tip credit minimum wage in these states or under federal law may have a material adverse effect on our labor costs. While we have been able to partially offset increases in the costs of key operating resources by gradually raising prices for our menu items and bakery products, coupled with more efficient purchasing practices, productivity improvements and greater economies of scale, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to do so in the future. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to increases in these costs, our financial performance may be materially impacted. 15 Table of Contents Failure to effectively compete for the patronage of our guests could result in reduced guest traffic at our restaurants, which may adversely impact our financial performance. The restaurant industry is highly competitive with respect to menu and food quality, service, access to qualified operations personnel, location, décor and value. There are a number of other restaurant operators that compete with us for guest traffic, some of which have significantly greater resources to market aggressively to consumers, which could result in our concepts losing market share. We believe that many consumers remain focused on value, and if other restaurant operators are able to promote and deliver a higher degree of perceived value through heavy discounting or other methods, our guest traffic levels may decline, which would adversely impact our revenues and financial performance. In addition, with the increased variety of product offerings at fast casual restaurants, quick-service restaurants, catered mobile and grocery stores, consumers may choose to trade down to these alternatives, which could also negatively affect our financial performance. Our ability to secure an adequate number of high quality sites for future restaurant openings could affect our ability to achieve our revenue and EPS growth targets. Our future revenue and EPS growth depend on the availability and selection of high quality sites that meet our criteria. Our new restaurant development schedule may be subject to unforeseen delays due to market conditions, the highly customized nature of our restaurant concepts, and the complex design, construction, and preopening processes for each new location. The lease negotiation and restaurant development timeframes also vary by location. In addition, competition for available premier restaurant locations continues to increase. The number and timing of new restaurants opened during any given period, and their associated contribution to operating week growth for the period, will depend on a number of factors including, but not limited to: · the identification and availability of high quality locations and acceptable lease terms; · the availability of suitable financing for our landlords; · the financial viability of our landlords; · the timing of the delivery of the leased premises to us from our landlords in order to commence build-out construction activities; · the ability of our landlords and us to obtain all necessary governmental licenses and permits on a timely basis to construct and operate our restaurants; · our ability to successfully manage the design, construction and preopening processes for each restaurant, and the availability and/or cost of raw materials and labor; · any unforeseen engineering or environmental problems with the leased premises; · adverse weather during the construction period; · political uncertainty; and · the availability of qualified operating personnel in the local market. Our ability to grow revenue and EPS may be negatively affected if we are unable to open an adequate number of restaurants to support our financial growth and execute our strategic plan. We may incur additional costs if we are unable to renew our restaurant leases on similar terms and conditions, or at all, or to optimize the locations of our restaurants in certain trade areas, which could harm our business and financial performance. We lease all of our restaurant premises and plan to continue to do so in the future. While we have renewed some of our initial leases, many of our leases have terms that will expire in 2014 and future years. While many of our earlier leases have five to ten year renewal options, several do not. While these lease expirations allow us to opportunistically relocate to improved sites and trade areas over time, we may incur additional costs to operate our restaurants, including increased rent and other costs related to our renegotiation of terms of occupancy of an existing leased premises in a desirable location, and costs for the relocation and development of a replacement restaurant, if we choose not to renew a lease, or are unable to do so, on favorable terms in a desirable location. In addition, we may elect to terminate certain leases prior to their expiration dates in order to optimize our performance in certain trade areas. However, we may be unable to negotiate favorable terms for such early terminations. Additional costs related to expiring restaurant lease terms or our inability to terminate certain restaurant leases under favorable terms could negatively affect our financial performance. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to retain, or effectively respond to a loss of, key executives, which could have an adverse impact on our financial performance. The success of our business continues to depend in critical respects on the contributions of David Overton, our founder, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and other senior executives of the Company. The loss of the services of Mr. Overton or other senior executives could have a material adverse effect on our business and long-term strategic plan. We have adopted a succession plan that includes both emergency short-term and long-term planning elements to allow us to successfully continue operations should any of our senior management team become unavailable to us. However, there is a risk that we may not be able to implement the succession plan successfully or in a timely manner or that the succession plan will not result in the same financial performance we currently achieve under the guidance of our existing executive team. 16 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully recruit and retain qualified restaurant management and operating personnel in an increasingly competitive market, we may be unable to effectively grow our business and revenues, including executing on our plans for domestic and international expansion, which could have an adverse impact on our financial performance. In addition to our senior executives, we must continue to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified management and operating personnel to support both our domestic and international operations. Qualified management and operating personnel historically have been in short supply and an inability to attract them to our restaurant operations would limit our ability to expand our concepts effectively. The ability of these key personnel to maintain consistency in the service, hospitality, quality and atmosphere of our restaurants is a critical factor in our success. In addition, we continue to require the services of our senior management and operating personnel to support our international expansion efforts. If we are unable to recruit and train managers who are willing and able to work at restaurants operated by our licensees while adequately maintaining sufficient numbers of managers for our Company-owned locations, the quality of our operations may suffer and the reputation of our brand may be harmed. This may also hinder our ability to effectively grow our business, which may adversely affect our financial performance. If we are unable to offer our management personnel long-term equity incentive compensation we may have difficulty retaining such personnel, which would adversely affect our operations and financial performance. As part of a competitive compensation package, we historically have granted equity awards to key staff members, including our executives and our general managers and executive kitchen managers who run our restaurants. From time to time, we may ask our stockholders to approve additional shares in our equity compensation plan to allow us to continue to grant equity awards as part of our compensation packages. Stockholder advisory groups utilize guidelines to issue voting recommendations intended to influence stockholder votes regarding approval of proxy proposals. If we are unable to meet the formulae required to obtain favorable recommendations or are unable to get stockholder support for our share increase proposals, our ability to use equity compensation to incentivize our staff will be adversely affected. If we are unable to grant equity compensation awards at a competitive level, we would need to offer equally compelling alternatives to supplement our compensation, including long-term cash compensation plans, or to significantly increase short-term cash compensation, in order to continue to attract and retain key personnel. If we were required to use these alternatives to long-term equity awards, our compensation costs could increase significantly, which would adversely affect our financial performance. If we are unable to effectively grow sales or reduce costs over time at certain of our locations, we may be required to record impairment charges and/or decide to discontinue operations at these restaurants, which could negatively affect our financial performance. We assess the potential impairment of our long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets or asset group may not be recoverable. Factors considered include, but are not limited to, significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner in which an asset is being used, an expectation that an asset will be disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life, and significant negative industry or economic trends. We regularly review any restaurants that are cash flow negative for the previous four quarters and those that are being considered for closure or relocation to determine if impairment testing is warranted. (See “Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Lease Terminations” in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our impairment assessments.) At any given time, we may be monitoring certain locations, and future impairment charges and/or closures may occur if individual restaurant performance does not improve, which could negatively impact our financial performance. Our inability to effectively use and respond to social media could result in the failure of our social media marketing efforts and damage to our reputation from negative social media chatter, thereby negatively affecting our restaurant sales, which could adversely impact our financial performance. Over the past several years, we have expanded our marketing efforts to include an emphasis on social media. Many of our competitors are also expanding their use of social media and additional social media platforms are rapidly being developed, potentially making more traditional social media platforms obsolete. For these reasons, continuous innovation and development in this area is required in order to maintain broad social media appeal. Social media also can be challenging because of the broad audience with ability to respond or react, in near real time, with comments that are often not filtered or checked for accuracy. For all of these reasons, if we do not appropriately manage our social media strategies, our marketing efforts in this area may not be successful and any failure (or perceived failure) to respond to negative or potentially damaging social media chatter could damage our reputation, negatively impacting our restaurant sales and financial performance. 17 Table of Contents Negative publicity about us or our products or services, or about our licensees, business partners or any of their respective products or services, whether or not accurate, could be damaging to our brand and reputation, resulting in reduced guest traffic at our restaurants, which could harm our financial performance. We dedicate substantial resources to ensuring the safety and quality of the food we serve to our guests. Nevertheless, we face food safety risks, including the risk of food-borne illness, that are common both in the restaurant industry and the food supply chain and that cannot be completely eliminated. Adverse publicity or news reports, whether or not accurate, regarding food quality or safety issues, illness, injury, health concerns, government or industry findings concerning food products served by us or our licensees, or issues stemming from the operation of our restaurants or bakery, restaurants operated by our licensees or other foodservice providers, third parties with whom we may co-brand bakery products or who sell or distribute bakery products, or third parties we may use to procure materials used in our business, or generally in the food supply chain, could be damaging to the restaurant industry overall and specifically harm our brand and reputation. The speed with which negative publicity (whether or not accurate) can be disseminated has increased dramatically with the ever-expanding popularity of social media. If we are unable to quickly and effectively respond to such reports, we may suffer a decrease in guest traffic and damage to our brand image which could adversely impact our financial performance. Concerns relating to food safety, food-borne illness, pandemics and other disease could reduce guest traffic to our restaurants, which could harm our financial performance. If a virus, such as “mad cow disease,” “SARS,” “swine flu” or other similar virus or bacteria, such as salmonella, or parasites or toxins infect the food supply (or are believed to have infected the food supply), the demand, availability and price of certain food items may be negatively impacted. Additionally, if our guests or employees become infected with a virus transmittable by human contact, guests may avoid our restaurants and it may become difficult to adequately staff our restaurants, the occurrence of either of which may adversely impact our financial performance. In addition to selling product throughout the world, through various channels, including, without limitation, supermarkets, mass market retailers, club stores and various other foodservice and retail channels, our two bakery operations are the only providers of most of our baked desserts to our restaurants. If any of our bakery products becomes subject to a product recall or market withdrawal, whether voluntary or involuntary, our costs to conduct such recall or market withdrawal could be significant and the impact to our bakery and restaurant operations as well as to our reputation could be material. Any recall or market withdrawal of a bakery product may adversely impact our financial performance. Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could limit our ability to globally expand our brand, which could harm our financial performance. We own trademarks, tradenames and service marks in the United States and in various countries throughout the world, including: The Cheesecake Factory®, The Cheesecake Factory Bakery®, Grand Lux Cafe® and Rocksugar Pan Asian Kitchen®. Our trademarks, tradenames and service marks, and other intellectual property are valuable assets of our business that require continuous monitoring to protect. We protect our intellectual property in a variety of ways, including, by contract and by registering trademarks, tradnames and service marks and copyrights in the United States and in various countries throughout the world. We regularly and systemically search for misappropriations of our intellectual property and seek to enforce our rights whenever appropriate to do so; however, we cannot always be assured of success and cannot possibly find all infringing uses of our intellectual property. Furthermore, we have not registered all of our trademarks, tradenames and service marks throughout the world as doing so may not be feasible because of associated costs or various foreign trademark law prohibitions. Our inability to effectively protect our intellectual property domestically or internationally may result in limiting our ability to globally expand our brand thereby adversely affecting our financial performance. We face a variety of risks related to our international expansion and global brand development efforts that could negatively affect our brand, require additional infrastructure to support such efforts, and expose us to additional liabilities under foreign laws, which could harm our financial performance. International operations have a unique set of risks that differ from country to country, and can include political instability, corruption, social, religious and ethnic unrest, changes in economic conditions (such as currency valuation, disposable income, unemployment levels and increases in the prices of commodities and labor), the regulatory environment, labor and pension laws, income and other taxes and tax rates, consumer preferences and practices, as well as changes in the laws and regulations governing foreign investment, joint ventures or licensing arrangements in countries where our licensees or joint venture partners are located, and custom controls. 18 Table of Contents Our international licensees are authorized to operate The Cheesecake Factory restaurant concept using our trademarks, tradenames, service marks, trade dress and systems, and to provide our branded food and bakery products directly to consumers in The Cheesecake Factory restaurants opened in the licensed areas outside of the United States. We provide extensive and detailed training to our licensees so that their employees may be able to effectively execute on our operating processes and procedures. Should we enter into additional international agreements, we intend to provide similar training. However, since we do not operate these restaurants directly, we can provide no assurance that our licensees will adhere to our operating standards in the same manner as we would were the restaurants operated directly by us. The products and services our licensees deliver in our branded restaurants may be negatively affected by factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to: · difficulties in achieving the consistency of product quality and service as compared to restaurants we operate in the United States; · changes to our recipes required by cultural norms; · inability to obtain adequate and reliable supplies of ingredients and products necessary to execute our diverse menu; · availability of experienced management to operate their restaurants according to our standards; and · differences, changes or uncertainties in economic, regulatory, legal, social and political conditions, including the possibility of instability and unrest. If our branded restaurants operated by licensees under international agreements have difficulty operating effectively, and these difficulties are attributed to us, our reputation and brand value could be harmed and our revenue from these restaurants could be diminished, resulting in an adverse effect on our financial performance. In order to support our international expansion, we entered into supply agreements with our licensees whereby our bakeries will supply certain of our branded bakery products to our branded international restaurants. In order to supply bakery products to our branded restaurants operated by our international licensees, we must adapt certain recipes to eliminate prohibited ingredients, comply with labeling requirements that differ from those in the United States, and maintain certifications required to export to such countries. In addition, unexpected events outside of our control, such as trade restrictions, embargos, governmental shutdowns and disruptions in shipping, may affect our ability to transport adequate levels of bakery products to our licensees, for whom we are a sole source of supply for our branded desserts. A failure to adequately supply bakery products to our internationally branded restaurants could affect the guest experience at those restaurants, resulting in decreased sales, and could, depending upon the reason for the failure, trigger contractual defaults on our part. As we continue the international expansion of our brand, we will need to comply with regulations and legal requirements, including those related to the protection of our tradenames, trademarks, service marks and other intellectual property. Additionally, we will need to comply with both domestic laws affecting United States businesses that operate internationally and foreign laws in the countries in which we expand our restaurants. (See also, “Changes in, or any failure to comply with, applicable laws or regulations could adversely affect our business and financial performance.”) Also, we may become subject to lawsuits or other legal actions resulting from the acts or omissions of our licensees under international agreements and, even though we may have taken reasonable steps to protect against such liabilities, including by obtaining contractual indemnifications and insurance coverage, there is no assurance that we will not incur costs and expenses as a result of our licensees’ conduct, even when we are not legally liable. If we are unable to appropriately scale our infrastructure in a timely manner, we may be unable to respond to and support domestic or international opportunities for growth, which could harm our financial performance. We continually evaluate the appropriate level of infrastructure necessary to support our operational and development plans, including our domestic and international expansion. If market conditions improve and we are able to identify enough high quality sites to significantly increase the planned number of new restaurant openings in the future, we may be unable to scale or manage the growth of our corporate and field supervision infrastructure in the short term to appropriately support our expansion. Likewise, if sales decline, we may be unable to reduce our infrastructure quickly enough to prevent further sales deleveraging which would adversely affect our financial performance. Our international license agreements require us to provide training and support to our licensees for their development and operation of The Cheesecake Factory restaurants. In 2013, we dedicated certain corporate personnel to international development and continue to utilize the talents of existing management, as we develop our international licensing and operations infrastructure. In addition, one of the most important aspects of our restaurant operations is our ability to deliver dependable, quality service by experienced staff members who can execute our concepts according to our high standards. This requires training our licensees’ management in the United States and our licensees’ staff in the licensed territories, as well as providing support in the selection and development of restaurant sites, product sourcing logistics, technological systems, and menu renovation. If we are unable to provide the appropriate level of infrastructure support to our international licensees, our contractual relationships and future international expansion opportunities may be harmed resulting in an adverse effect on our financial performance. 19 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully operate or expand our Grand Lux Cafe and RockSugar Pan Asian Kitchen brands, our financial performance may be negatively impacted. All of our restaurants are subject to the risks and uncertainties described in this filing. However, there is an enhanced level of risk and uncertainty related to the operation and potential expansion of our less-established brands, Grand Lux Cafe and RockSugar Pan Asian Kitchen. We have refined Grand Lux Cafe’s architectural design and layout with the intent to broaden the appeal and approachability of this concept and to position the brand as we believe appropriate for potential future growth. In fiscal 2012, we opened a newly designed Grand Lux Cafe in Cherry Hill, New Jersey. There can be no assurance that these changes will be popular with our guests and promote future growth. We frequently discuss potential Grand Lux Cafe sites with landlords; however, we can provide no assurance that new units will be accepted in the markets targeted for the expansion of this concept. While we currently have no plans to open additional RockSugar Pan Asian Kitchen restaurants, we continue to evaluate the concept’s potential for growth, but can provide no assurance that expansion of this brand will occur or would be successful. Changes in, or any failure to comply with, applicable laws or regulations could adversely affect our ability to operate our restaurants and/or increase our cost to do so, which could harm our financial performance. Our business is subject to extensive state and local government regulation in the various jurisdictions in which our restaurants and bakeries are located, including, but not limited to, regulations relating to alcoholic beverage control, public health and safety, environmental hazards, labor, and food safety and labeling laws. The failure to obtain and/or retain licenses, permits or other regulatory approvals required to operate our business could delay or prevent the opening and/or continued operation of a restaurant, adversely affecting that restaurant’s operations and profitability, and could adversely affect our ability to obtain these licenses elsewhere. In addition, the failure to comply with governmental regulations could subject us to penalties and interruptions in operations. In certain states, we may be subject to “dram shop” statutes that generally allow a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Dram shop litigation may result in significant judgments, including punitive damages. A settlement or judgment against us under a dram shop statute in excess of our general liability insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Significant government-imposed increases in minimum wages, including the tip credit wage in certain states, paid or unpaid leaves of absence and mandated health and/or COBRA benefits, or increased tax reporting, assessment or payment requirements related to our staff members who receive gratuities, or changes in interpretations of existing employment law, could be detrimental to our financial performance. We are subject to federal and state laws that prohibit discrimination in the workplace and that set standards for the design, accessibility and operation of public facilities, such as the Americans with Disabilities Act. Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and failure to comply could create exposure to government proceedings and litigation. Even a perceived failure to comply could result in negative publicity that could damage our reputation and adversely affect our financial performance. In addition, various federal, state and local labor laws and regulations govern our operations and relationships with our staff members, including, but not limited to, minimum wages, breaks, overtime, deductions, certain benefits (including health care benefits), safety, working conditions and citizenship and legal residency requirements. Changes in, or any failure to comply with, these laws and regulations could subject us to fines or other legal actions. Settlements or judgments in connection therewith that are not insured or are in excess of our coverage limitations could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Despite our efforts to maintain compliance with legal requirements, including implementation of electronic verification of legal work status, some of our staff members may not meet state and federal citizenship or residency requirements. This could result in a disruption in our work force, sanctions against us and adverse publicity. In addition, immigration-related employment regulations, on both the state and federal level, may make it more difficult for us to identify and hire qualified staff members. See also, “We face a variety of risks related to our international expansion and global brand development efforts that could negatively affect our brand, require additional infrastructure to support such efforts, and expose us to additional liabilities under foreign laws” for a discussion of regulatory risks related to our international expansion. Labor organizing could adversely affect our operations and harm our competitive position in the restaurant industry, which could harm our financial performance. Our staff members and others may attempt to unionize our workforce, establish boycotts or picket lines or interrupt our supply chains which could increase our labor costs, limit our ability to manage our workforce effectively and cause disruptions to our operations. A loss of our ability to effectively manage our workforce and the compensation and benefits we offer to our staff members could harm our financial performance. 20 Table of Contents Our failure to respond appropriately to changes in consumer health and disclosure regulations, could adversely affect our operations and competitive position, which could harm our financial performance. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 (“PPACA”), enacted in 2010, requires restaurant operators with twenty or more locations to make certain nutritional information available to guests. The nutritional disclosure requirements under PPACA are intended to preempt a patchwork of state and local laws regarding nutritional content disclosures that became prevalent over the past several years. However, because the U.S. Food & Drug Administration has not yet issued final regulations with standards for complying with PPACA’s nutritional content disclosure requirements, many states, counties and cities continue to enforce their own nutritional content disclosure requirements. The continued uncertainty relating to nutritional content disclosure and ongoing need to comply with a patchwork of various state and local disclosure requirements continues to be a challenge for us. Some states and local governments also have enacted legislation regulating or prohibiting the sales or disclosure of certain types and/or levels of ingredients in food served in restaurants, such as transfats and glutens, and are considering taxing and/or otherwise regulating high fat and high sodium foods. The success of our restaurant and bakery operations depends, in part, upon our ability to respond effectively to changes in consumer health and disclosure regulations and to adapt our menu offerings and bakery selections to changes in governmental requirements. If consumer health regulations change significantly, we may be required to modify or discontinue certain menu items. In addition, dietary restrictions in some international locations in which our international licensees plan to operate may require us to modify or discontinue serving certain menu items in those locations. To the extent we are unable to respond with appropriate changes to our menu offerings, this could result in negative publicity and materially affect guest demand for our concepts and have a material adverse impact on our financial performance. If we are unable to effectively manage our business risks, we may incur costs associated with litigation and our cost for insurance may increase, which could adversely impact our financial performance. We retain the financial responsibility for a significant portion of our risks and associated liabilities with respect to workers’ compensation, general liability, employment practices, employee health benefits and other insurable risks through our self-insurance programs. Unfavorable fluctuations in market conditions or the availability of insurance or changes in local, state and/or federal regulations could significantly increase our self-insurance costs and insurance premiums. Employment-related litigation continues to increase at both the state and federal levels, particularly with respect to claims styled as class action lawsuits, which are costly to defend. Also, some employment-related claims in the area of wage and hour disputes are not insurable risks. If our costs related to these claims continue to increase, our financial performance may be harmed. In states with “dram shop” statutes, we may become subject to dram shop litigation that could result in significant judgments, including punitive damages. Part of our existing comprehensive liability insurance program includes liquor liability coverage, but there can be no assurance that this coverage will be adequate if we were to be found guilty in a dram shop case. Rising health care costs and continuing uncertainties concerning the effect of implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 and similar laws may increase our cost to provide health care to our staff, which could adversely impact our business and financial performance. Significant increases in health care costs continue to occur, and we can provide no assurance that our cost containment efforts in this area will be effective. Also, while we have analyzed the anticipated impact of PPACA on our cost structure, we will not know for certain the impact on our health care benefit costs until PPACA is fully implemented. Increases in costs due either to the PPACA or general health care cost increases could have a material adverse impact our financial performance, as there is no assurance that we would be able to absorb and/or pass through such costs. Information technology system failures or breaches of our network security could interrupt our operations and subject us to increased operating costs, as well as to litigation and other liabilities, which could adversely affect our financial performance. We rely heavily on our in-restaurant and enterprise-wide computer systems and network infrastructure across our operations, and the systems we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen risks. The efficient management of our operations depends upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and systems against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other catastrophic events, as well as from internal and external security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. We employ both internal resources and external consultants to conduct auditing and testing for weaknesses in our systems, controls, firewalls and encryption to reduce the likelihood of any security failures or breaches and have developed recovery plans in the event such a failure or breach should occur. However, we can provide no assurance that these measures will be successful. Our financial performance may be negatively impacted if our operations are interrupted because of such an event or if we are not able to promptly recover from such an interruption. 21 Table of Contents In addition, our corporate support center is located in California, in an area prone to natural disasters such as earthquakes and wildfires. We have business continuity and disaster recovery plans in place to address many events of this nature, and back-up and off-site locations for recovery of electronic and other kinds of information, including storage of significant data in a cloud computing environment. (See Risk Factor — “Our inability or failure to execute on a comprehensive business continuity and disaster recovery plans following a major natural or manmade disaster, including terrorism, at our corporate facility result in delayed recovery, loss of data, an inability to perform vital corporate functions and other harm, which could adversely impact our financial performance.”) However, any damage to or failure of our computer systems or network infrastructure to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or breaches in the security of these systems could cause significant delays in customer service, reduce efficiency in our operations, and require significant capital investments to remediate these issues, all of which could adversely affect our financial performance. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. A failure of our security measures could harm our reputation, as well as subject us to litigation or actions by regulatory authorities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. A data security breach involving a guest’s or staff member’s personal data could have a material adverse effect on our business could adversely affect our reputation and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties, which could adversely affect our financial performance. We receive and maintain certain personal information about our guests and staff members. For example, we transmit confidential credit card information in connection with credit card transactions, and we are required to collect and maintain certain personal information in connection with our employment practices, including the administration of our benefit plans. The collection and use of this information by us is regulated at the federal and state levels, and the regulatory environment related to information security and privacy is increasingly demanding. If our security and information systems are compromised or our staff members or authorized third parties fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. In addition, our ability to accept credit cards as payment in our restaurants and for on-line gift card orders depends on us remaining compliant with standards set by the PCI Security Standards Council. These standards require certain levels of system security and procedures to protect our customers’ credit card and other personal information. We employ both internal resources and external consultants to conduct auditing and testing to reduce the likelihood of any security failures or breaches. However, we can provide no assurance that these security measures will be successful. If these security measures are not successful, we may become subject to litigation against us or the imposition of regulatory penalties, which could result in negative publicity and significantly harm our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. If a third party vendor of ours experiences a failure affective our essential business processes, which may subject us to certain risks we may experience data loss, increased costs or other harm, which could adversely impact our financial performance. In order to leverage our internal resources and information technology infrastructure, and to support our business continuity and disaster recovery planning efforts in the event of a physical loss or damage to our corporate facilities, we utilize third-party vendors to assist us with some of our essential business processes. For example, we rely on a network of third-party distribution warehouses to fulfill ingredients and other materials to our restaurants. In some instances, these processes rely on technology and may be outsourced to the vendor in their entirety and in other instances we utilize these vendors’ externally-hosted business applications. Some of the technological processes for which we utilize third parties include, but are not limited to, gift card tracking and authorization, labor scheduling and email hosting. Our practice is to work with service providers that are leading performers in their industries and with technology vendors that employ proper data security practices and internal control practices, such as redundant processing facilities. However, we cannot guarantee that failures will not occur. The failure of third-party vendors to provide adequate services, including protection of sensitive data, could significantly harm our operations and reputation, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. 22 Table of Contents Our inability or failure to execute on comprehensive business continuity and disaster recovery plans following a major natural or manmade disaster, including terrorism, at our corporate facility could result in delayed recovery, loss of data, an inability to perform vital corporate functions and other harm, which could adversely impact our financial performance. Most of our corporate systems and processes and corporate support for our restaurant operations are centralized at one California location, with the exception of our construction and design department and our East Coast bakery production and fulfillment facility. We have disaster recovery procedures and a comprehensive business continuity plan in place to address many critical events, including back up and off-site locations for storage and recovery of electronic and other forms of data and information. However, if we are unable to execute our disaster recovery procedures in whole or in part, we may experience delays in recovery and losses of data, inability to perform vital corporate functions, tardiness in required reporting and compliance, failures to adequately support field operations and other breakdowns in normal operating procedures that could expose us to administrative and other legal claims and have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Litigation against us could result in increased costs and damage to our reputation, which could adversely impact our financial performance. We are subject to lawsuits, administrative proceedings and claims that arise in the regular course of business. These matters typically involve claims by guests, staff members and others regarding issues such as food borne illness, food safety, premises liability, compliance with wage and hour requirements, work-related injuries, discrimination, harassment, disability and other operational issues common to the foodservice industry. We could be adversely affected by negative publicity and litigation costs resulting from these claims, regardless of their validity. Significant legal fees and costs in complex class action litigation or an adverse judgment or settlement that is not insured or is in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. We retain the financial responsibility for a significant portion of our risks and associated liabilities with respect to workers’ compensation, general liability, employment practices, employee health benefits and other insurable risks. The accrued liabilities associated with these programs are based on our estimate of the ultimate costs to settle known claims as well as claims incurred but not yet reported to us (“IBNR”) as of each balance sheet date. We maintain stop-loss coverage with third-party insurers to limit our individual claim exposure for many of our programs and for aggregate exposure on our employee health benefits program. Significant judgment is required to estimate IBNR amounts as parties have yet to assert such claims. If actual claims trends, including the severity or frequency of claims, differ from our estimates, our financial results could be impacted. Adverse weather conditions, seasonal fluctuations, natural disasters, terrorism threats and health epidemics (or fears about them) could unfavorably impact our restaurant sales, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Adverse weather conditions can impact guest traffic at our restaurants, cause the temporary underutilization of outdoor patio seating, and, in more severe cases, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, blizzards or other natural disasters, cause temporary inability to obtain supplies and increases in commodity costs and closures of our affected restaurants, sometimes for prolonged periods, which would negatively affect our restaurant sales and financial performance. Seasonal fluctuations may result from the calendar days of the week on which holidays occur, which may impact spending patterns. Fears of terrorist activities or health epidemics may have a similar negative impact. Our cash flows may be adversely impacted by delay in the receipt of proceeds under any insurance policies or programs we maintain against certain of these risks or the proceeds may not fully offset any such losses. New restaurant openings may negatively impact sales at our existing restaurants, which could adversely impact our financial performance. We target high quality, high profile locations for our upscale and highly customized restaurants. The size of our restaurant trade areas varies by location, depending on a number of factors such as population density, demographics, retail, business, entertainment and other traffic generators and geography. As a result, the opening of a new restaurant could impact the sales of one or more of our existing restaurants nearby. It is not our intention to open new restaurants that materially cannibalize the sales of our existing restaurants. However, there can be no assurance that such sales impact will not occur or become more significant in the future as we gradually increase our presence in existing markets to maximize our competitive position and financial performance in each market. Our failure to establish, maintain and apply adequate internal control over our financial reporting could affect our reported financial results. In addition, changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards could affect our reported financial results. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These provisions provide for the identification of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting — a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. If we experience a material weakness in internal controls, there can be no assurance that we will be able to remediate that material weakness in a timely manner or maintain all of the controls necessary to remain in compliance. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. Additionally, changes in accounting standards or new accounting pronouncements and interpretations may occur that could adversely affect our previously reported or future financial results. 23 Table of Contents Failure to satisfy financial covenants and/or repayment requirements under our credit facility could adversely affect our financial condition. We have an unsecured revolving credit facility (“Facility”) with an available borrowing commitment of $200 million and with a conditional commitment increase feature that could provide for an additional $100 million in available credit. The Facility requires us to maintain certain financial covenants. At December 31, 2013, we were in compliance with these covenants and had no outstanding debt balance under the Facility. However, any failure to maintain these debt covenants or have sufficient liquidity to either repay or refinance the then outstanding balance at expiration of the Facility, or upon violation of the covenants, would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. (See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 for additional information concerning our long-term debt.) From time to time we may evaluate acquisitions, joint ventures or other initiatives that could distract management from our business or have an adverse effect on our financial performance. We may be presented with opportunities to buy or acquire rights to other companies or businesses that might be complementary or adjacent to our current strategic direction at the time and may provide growth opportunities. Any involvement in any such acquisition, merger, joint venture, alliance or divestiture may create inherent risks, including without limitation: · inaccurate assessment of value, growth potential, weaknesses, liabilities, contingent or otherwise, and expected profitability of potential acquisitions or joint ventures; · inability to achieve any anticipated operating synergies or economies of scale; · potential loss of key personnel of any acquired business; · challenges in successfully integrating, operating and managing acquired businesses and workforce and instilling our company culture into new management and staff; · difficulties in aligning enterprise management systems and policies and procedures; · unforeseen changes in the market and economic condition affecting the acquired business or joint venture; · possibility of impairment charges if an acquired business does not meet the performance expectations upon which the acquisition price was based; and · diversion of management’s attention and focus from existing operations to the integration of the acquired or merged business and its personnel. Risks Related to Owning Our Stock The market price of our common stock is subject to volatility. During fiscal 2013, the price of our common stock fluctuated between $32.63 and $49.74 per share. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, actual or anticipated variations in our operating results or those of our competitors as compared to analyst expectations, changes in financial estimates by research analysts with respect to us or others in the restaurant industry, and announcements of significant transactions (including mergers or acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures or other strategic initiatives) by us or others in the restaurant industry. In addition, the equity markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the stock price of many companies in ways that may have been unrelated to an individual company’s operating performance. The price of our common stock may continue to be volatile, based on factors specific to our company and industry, as well as factors related to the equity markets overall. If we are unable to continue to pay dividends or repurchase our stock as expected by the market, our EPS and stock price may be harmed. Our dividend and stock repurchase programs require the use of a significant portion of our cash flow. Our ability to pay dividends and repurchase stock will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, exercise of employee stock options and capacity to borrow funds, which may be subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. Any failure to pay dividends or repurchase stock after we have announced our intention to do so may negatively impact investor confidence in us, thereby negatively impacting our EPS and stock price. 24 Table of Contents We have a stockholder rights plan, or “poison pill,” which could affect the price of our common stock and make it more difficult for a potential acquirer to purchase a large portion of our securities, to initiate a tender offer or a proxy contest, or to acquire us. In August 2008, our Board of Directors extended our stockholder rights plan, commonly known as a “poison pill,” until August 2018. The poison pill may discourage, delay, or prevent a third party from acquiring a large portion of our securities, initiating a tender offer or proxy contest, or acquiring us through an acquisition, merger or similar transaction even if our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares over then-current market prices in the event of such transaction. There may be future sales or other dilution of our equity that may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue additional shares of common stock and additional classes or series of preferred stock without any action on the part of the stockholders. The Board of Directors also has the discretion, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over the common stock with respect to dividends or upon the liquidation or winding up of our business and other terms. If we issue preferred shares that have a preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred shares with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of our common stockholders or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 