ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves risks and uncertainties. In addition to the information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other filings that we make with the SEC, you should carefully read and consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially harm our business, operating results, earnings per share (EPS), financial position, cash flows and/or trading price of our common stock (individually and collectively referred to as our “financial performance”). In addition, our actual results could vary materially from any results expressed or implied by forward-looking statements contained in this report, in any of our other filings with the SEC and other communications by us, both written and oral, depending on a variety of factors, including the risks and uncertainties described below. It is not possible for us to predict all possible risks or the impact these factors could have on us or the extent to which any one factor, or combination of factors, may materially adversely affect our financial performance. 12 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Financial Performance The impact global and domestic economic conditions have on consumer discretionary spending could negatively impact our business and financial performance. Dining out is a discretionary expenditure that historically has been influenced by overall domestic and global economic conditions, and to varying degrees by specific factors such as but not limited to: unemployment, general and food-specific inflation, consumer confidence, consumer purchasing and saving habits, credit conditions, population growth and wage rates. Material changes with respect to governmental policy related to domestic and international fiscal concerns, and/or changes in major central bank policies with respect to monetary policy also could affect consumer discretionary spending, which could affect our guest traffic and average check per guest, thus potentially having a material impact on our financial performance. While domestic economic indicators have generally improved since recessionary 2008, there remains a good level of uncertainty, which may be exacerbated as interest rates have started to rise from historically low levels and forecasts for increased future GDP growth are frequently revised downward. These characteristics and uncertainties also appear to be consistent with international markets. If the economic conditions do not meaningfully improve, the slow-paced U.S. economic recovery may continue and possibly deteriorate, and our financial performance could be materially affected in either scenario depending on consumer response to such economic conditions and evolving dining out patterns. Our financial performance may be materially adversely affected if we are unable to grow comparable restaurant sales, control costs and/or increase guest traffic. Changes in comparable restaurant sales occur because of (i) customer traffic increases or decreases, (ii) menu price increases, and (iii) menu mix shifts. If we are unable to grow comparable restaurant sales and our costs increase, or if comparable restaurant sales decrease and costs remain flat or increase, the effect, over time, is to spread costs across a lower level of sales, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. If we are unable to increase customer traffic in our restaurants, our ability to grow our comparable restaurant sales could be hindered. Changes in customer traffic are impacted by a variety of factors, including macroeconomic conditions that impact customer discretionary spending, competition from other restaurants (both in the upscale casual dining segment and in other segments of the restaurant industry, such as fast casual), consumer perception of our concepts’ offerings in terms of quality, price, value and service, changes in consumer eating habits, including substituting other dining options (such as grocery prepared meals, fast casual dining, or mobile catering) for full service, restaurant dining experiences, irregular and increasingly volatile weather, demographic, economic and other adverse changes in the trade areas in which our restaurants are located and changes in the regulatory environment. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in achieving increased customer traffic. We utilize menu price increases to help offset inflation of key operating costs. However, our menu price increases may be insufficient to absorb or offset increased costs and, if not accepted by customers, menu price increases could result in reduced customer traffic, which could reduce our growth in comparable restaurant sales and materially adversely affect our financial performance. We are also considering regional pricing to offset operating cost pressures that may be specific to certain geographic areas, such as minimum wage and minimum tip credit wage increases. Should we proceed with regional pricing, our financial performance could suffer if we fail to appropriately identify regions for differentiated pricing or to effectively differentiate pricing by and between such regions. We may also incur additional costs to print various menu versions to accommodate our regional pricing strategy. Our menu mix could be materially adversely affected if our customers purchase fewer menu items or lower cost menu items to reduce the amount of their check. Unfavorable menu mix shifts could reduce our average check even if customer traffic increases, negatively impacting our ability to grow comparable restaurant sales, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Failure to effectively compete for customer traffic may materially adversely affect our financial performance. We operate in an industry that is highly competitive with respect to menu and food quality, service, access to qualified operations personnel, location, décor and value. There are a number of other restaurant operators that compete with us for customer traffic, some of which have significantly greater resources to market aggressively to consumers, which could result in our concepts losing market share. We believe that many consumers remain focused on value, and if other restaurant operators are able to promote and deliver a higher degree of perceived value through heavy discounting or other methods, our customer traffic levels may decline, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. In addition, with the increased variety of fresh and local product offerings at fast casual restaurants, quick-service restaurants, mobile catering and grocery stores, consumers may choose to trade down to these alternatives, which could also materially adversely affect our financial performance. 13 Table of Contents If we are unable to protect the value of our brands and our reputation, sales at our restaurants may be negatively impacted, which may materially adversely affect our financial performance. The Cheesecake Factory’s reputation for quality and breadth of menu items and bakery products significantly contributes to the total experience that customers enjoy in our restaurants. We must protect and grow the value of our brands domestically and globally to continue to be successful in the future. If we experience negative publicity, regardless of any factual basis, relating to food quality, restaurant facilities, customer complaints or litigation alleging injury or food-borne illnesses, food tampering or contamination or poor health inspection scores, sanitary or other issues with respect to food processing by us or our suppliers, labor relations or any failure to comply with applicable regulations or standards or other negative publicity, sales at our restaurants may be adversely impacted, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Additionally, with the importance and impact of social media, any negative publicity by a customer who perceives or experiences a failure by us to provide a positive dining experience, including in restaurants operated by our international licensees, may be magnified and reach a large portion of our customer base in a very short period of time, which could harm the value of our brand and materially adversely affect our financial performance. Our inability to anticipate and react effectively to changes in the costs of key operating resources, including food, utilities, other supplies and services and labor, may increase our cost of doing business, which may materially adversely affect our financial performance. We negotiate short-term and long-term agreements for some of our principal commodity, supply and equipment requirements, such as cream cheese, depending on market conditions and expected demand. Historically, we were unable to contract directly for extended periods of time for certain of our commodities such as some produce, wild-caught fresh fish and certain dairy items. We recently entered into longer-term fixed pricing agreements for additional dairy items and continue to evaluate the possibility of entering into similar arrangements for other commodities. We also periodically evaluate hedging vehicles, such as direct financial instruments, to assist us in managing our risk and variability in these categories. Although these vehicles and markets may be available to us, we may choose not to enter into contracts due to pricing volatility, excessive risk premiums, hedge inefficiencies or other factors. Additionally, the cost of commodities subject to government regulation, such as dairy and corn, can be even more susceptible to price fluctuation. Our financial performance could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to effectively manage the cost of our principal commodity, supply and equipment requirements. In de-regulated markets, we engage in a competitive bidding process for our gas and electric requirements. If this process yields favorable bid results, we may enter into utility supply agreements for certain of our restaurants. Although such supply agreements can vary in length, historically the majority have been for one-year terms. Resources that we may purchase on the international market are subject to fluctuations in both the value of the U.S. dollar and increases in global demand. Also, our suppliers may be impacted by increased input costs to produce and transport resources that we use in our restaurants and bakery manufacturing facilities, which could eventually increase our cost for such commodities. Health care costs, in particular, continue to rise and are especially difficult to project. Material increases in costs associated with medical claims or an unusually high number of severe medical claims or other unfavorable fluctuations in the severity or frequency of such claims may cause health care costs to vary substantially from quarter-to-quarter and year-over-year. We act as a self-insurer under our health and dental plans and mitigate losses by carrying stop loss coverage. However, given the unpredictable nature of actual claims trends, including the severity or frequency of claims, in any given year our health care costs could significantly exceed our estimates, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 (“PPACA”) was enacted in 2010. While PPACA has not had a significant impact on our health care benefit costs, we cannot be certain that this will continue in the future. Until the uncertainty surrounding PPACA is finally resolved and the implementation and administration of PPACA is more fully matured, there remains a risk that PPACA may cause our health care costs to rise in the near and long-term future. Material increases in health care costs could materially adversely affect our financial performance. While we try to partially offset increases in the costs of key operating resources by gradually raising prices for our menu items and bakery products, coupled with more efficient purchasing practices, productivity improvements and greater economies of scale, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to do so in the future. (See Risk Factor “Our financial performance may be materially adversely affected if we are unable to grow comparable restaurant sales, control costs and/or increase guest traffic.”) Our financial performance could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to anticipate and effectively respond to increases in our operating costs. 14 Table of Contents We are experiencing significant wage rate inflation. If we are unable to offset higher wage costs, we will experience an increase in our cost of doing business, which will adversely impact our financial performance. Increases in minimum wages and minimum tip credit wages could materially adversely affect our financial performance. We operate in many states and localities where the minimum wage is significantly higher than the federal minimum wage and in such areas our staff members receive minimum compensation equal to the state or locality’s minimum wage. In other geographic areas, some of our staff members may be paid a tip credit wage that is supplemented by gratuities received from our customers. Many states and localities have begun to significantly increase their minimum wage and tip credit wage while others and the Federal government also are contemplating similar increases. In addition to increasing the wages paid to our minimum wage and tip credit wage earners, these increases create pressure to increase wages paid to other staff who, in recognition of their tenure, performance, job responsibilities and other similar considerations, historically received a rate of pay exceeding the applicable minimum wage or minimum tip credit wage. Because we employ a large workforce, minimum wage and tip credit wage increases have a particularly significant impact on our labor costs. Our vendors and business partners are similarly impacted by wage inflation and have already begun to increase our cost for goods and services in order to offset their increasing labor costs. We expect these trends will continue as minimum wages and minimum tip credit wages continue to rise. While we try to partially offset increases in the costs of key operating resources by gradually raising prices for our menu items and bakery products, coupled with more efficient purchasing practices, productivity improvements and greater economies of scale, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to do so in the future. (See Risk Factor “Our financial performance may be materially adversely affected if we are unable to grow comparable restaurant sales, control costs and/or increase guest traffic.”) If we are unable to anticipate and respond to increases in our operating costs, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to secure an adequate number of high quality sites for future restaurant openings, the growth of our concepts may be adversely impacted, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Our future revenue and EPS growth depend on the availability and selection of high quality sites that meet our criteria. The number and timing of new restaurants opened during any given period, and their associated contribution to financial growth for the period, will depend on a number of factors including, but not limited to: · unforeseen delays due to market conditions, the highly customized nature of our restaurant concepts, and the complex design, construction, and preopening process for each new location; · the identification and availability of high quality locations; · an increase in competition for available premier locations; · the influence consumer shopping trends has on the availability of sites in traditional locations, such as premier shopping centers; · acceptable lease terms and the lease negotiation process; · the availability of suitable financing for our landlords; · the financial viability of our landlords; · the timing of the delivery of the leased premises to us from our landlords in order to perform build-out construction activities; · the ability of our landlords and us to obtain all necessary governmental licenses and permits, and consents of third parties, on a timely basis to construct and operate our restaurants; · our ability to successfully manage the complex design, construction and preopening processes for each of our highly customized restaurants, and the availability and/or cost of raw materials and labor; · any unforeseen engineering or environmental problems with the leased premises; · adverse weather during the construction period; · political uncertainty; and · the availability of qualified operating personnel in the local market. Inability to obtain an adequate number of suitable sites could materially adversely affect our financial performance. We may incur additional costs if we are unable to renew our restaurant leases on similar terms and conditions, or at all, or to relocate our restaurants in certain trade areas, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. We currently lease all of our restaurant premises and, although we remain flexible to other arrangements, we currently plan to continue to lease our restaurant locations in the future. Some of our leases have terms that will expire in the next couple of years and beyond. Many of these leases include renewal options; however, several do not. Lease expirations allow us to opportunistically evaluate the possibility of relocating certain restaurants to higher quality sites and trade areas over time. However, doing so may involve additional costs, such as increased rent and other expenses related to renegotiating the terms of occupancy of an existing lease, and the costs to relocate and develop a replacement restaurant, if we choose not to renew a lease, or are unable to do so, on favorable terms in a desirable location. In addition, we may elect to terminate certain leases prior to their expiration dates in order to improve financial performance in certain trade areas over the long term. However, we may be unable to negotiate favorable terms for such early terminations. Additional costs related to expiring restaurant lease terms or our inability to terminate certain restaurant leases under favorable terms could materially adversely affect our financial performance. 15 Table of Contents Our financial performance could be materially adversely affected if we fail to retain, or effectively respond to a loss of, key executives. The success of our business continues to depend in critical respects on the contributions of David Overton, our founder, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and other senior executives of the Company. The departure of Mr. Overton or other senior executives could have a material adverse effect on our business and long-term strategic plan. We have a succession plan that includes short-term and long-term planning elements intended to allow us to successfully continue operations should any of our senior management become unavailable to serve in their respective roles. However, there is a risk that we may not be able to implement the succession plan successfully or in a timely manner or that the succession plan will not result in the same financial performance we currently achieve under the guidance of our existing executive team. If we are unable to successfully recruit and retain qualified restaurant management and operating personnel in an increasingly competitive market, we may be unable to effectively operate and grow our business and revenues, including executing on our plans for domestic and international expansion, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. We must continue to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified management and operating personnel to maintain consistency in the service, hospitality, quality and atmosphere of our restaurants, both domestically and internationally. Qualified management and operating personnel are typically in high demand. Our ability to operate and expand our concepts effectively could be limited if we are unable to attract and retain high caliber people. In addition, we continue to require the services of our senior management and operating personnel to support our international expansion efforts. If we are unable to recruit and train managers to work at restaurants operated by our licensees while adequately maintaining sufficient numbers of managers for our Company-owned locations, the quality of our operations may suffer, the reputation of our brand may be harmed and our ability to effectively grow our business may be hindered, any of which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Our inability to offer long-term equity incentive compensation may harm our ability to retain key employees, which could materially adversely affect our operations and financial performance. As part of a competitive compensation package, we grant equity awards to key staff members, including our executives and our General Managers and Executive Kitchen Managers who run our restaurants. From time to time, we may ask our stockholders to approve additional shares in our equity compensation plan to allow us to continue to grant equity awards as part of our compensation packages. Stockholder advisory groups utilize guidelines to issue voting recommendations intended to influence stockholder votes regarding approval of proxy proposals. If we are unable to meet the formulae required to obtain favorable recommendations or otherwise are unable to receive stockholder support for our share increase proposals, our ability to use equity compensation to incentivize our staff will be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to grant equity compensation awards at a competitive level, we would need to offer equally compelling alternatives to supplement our compensation, including long-term cash compensation plans, or to significantly increase short-term cash compensation, in order to continue to attract and retain key personnel. If we are required to use these alternatives, our compensation costs could increase significantly, which would materially adversely affect our financial performance. Our inability to effectively use and monitor social media could harm our marketing efforts as well as our reputation, which could materially adversely affect our restaurant sales and financial performance. Our marketing efforts include an emphasis on social media. Many of our competitors are expanding their use of social media and new social media platforms are rapidly being developed, potentially making traditional media platforms obsolete. As a result, we need to continuously innovate and develop our social media strategies in order to maintain broad appeal. Social media can be challenging because it reaches a broad audience with an ability to respond or react, in near real time, with comments that are often not filtered or checked for accuracy. Social media’s reach may magnify any negative publicity and messages can “go viral” necessitating effective crisis response in real time. As a result, if we do not appropriately manage our social media strategies and respond effectively to negative social media, our marketing efforts in this area may not be successful and any failure (or perceived failure) to effectively respond to negative or potentially damaging social media chatter, whether accurate or not, could damage our reputation, which could materially adversely affect our restaurant sales and financial performance. Concerns relating to food safety, food-borne illness, pandemics and other diseases could reduce customer traffic to our restaurants, or cause us to be the target of litigation, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. We dedicate substantial resources and provide training to ensure the safety and quality of the food we serve. Nevertheless, we face food safety risks, including the risk of food-borne illness and food contamination, which are common both in the restaurant industry and the food supply chain and cannot be completely eliminated. We rely on our network of suppliers to properly handle, store and transport our ingredients, until delivery to our restaurants. Any failure by our suppliers, or their suppliers, could cause our ingredients to be contaminated, which could be difficult to detect and put the safety of our food in jeopardy. We freshly prepare our menu items at our restaurants, which may put us at greater risk for food-borne illness outbreaks than some of our competitors who use processed foods or commissaries to prepare their food. The risk of food-borne illness may also increase whenever our menu items are served outside of our control, such as by third party food delivery services, customer take out or at catered events. 16 Table of Contents Adverse publicity or news reports, regardless of accuracy, regarding food quality or safety issues, illness, injury, recalls, health concerns, government or industry findings concerning food products served by us or our licensees, or issues stemming from the operation of our restaurants or bakery, restaurants operated by our licensees or other foodservice providers, third parties with whom we may co-brand products or who sell or distribute our products, or third parties we may use to procure materials used in our business, or generally in the food supply chain, could be damaging to the restaurant industry overall and specifically harm our brand and reputation, which in turn could materially adversely affect our financial performance. If a pathogen, such as Ebola, “mad cow disease,” “SARS,” “swine flu,” avian influenza, norovirus or other virus or bacteria, such as salmonella or e.coli, or if parasites or other toxins infect the food supply (or are believed to have infected the food supply), the demand, availability and price of certain food items may be adversely impacted. Additionally, if our customers or employees become infected with a pathogen that is transmittable by human-to-human, food-to-human or human-to-food contact, customers may avoid our restaurants or it may become difficult to adequately staff our restaurants, the occurrence of either or both of which may materially adversely affect our financial performance. Any adverse food safety occurrence may result in litigation against us by consumers, governmental authorities and others. Although we carry liability and other insurance coverage to mitigate against these risks, not all risks of this nature are fully insurable and, even if insured, the negative publicity associated with such an event may cause a decrease in customer patronage which may materially adversely affect our financial performance. In addition to selling products throughout the world through various distribution channels, including, without limitation, supermarkets, mass market retailers, club stores and various other food service and retail channels, our two bakery facilities are the only sources of most of our baked desserts to our restaurants. If any of our bakery products becomes subject to a product recall or market withdrawal, whether voluntary or involuntary, our costs to conduct such recall or market withdrawal could be significant, restaurant sales as well as third party sales of bakery product may be reduced and our reputation could be harmed, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. In addition, any adverse food safety event could result in mandatory or voluntary product withdrawals or recalls and regulatory and other investigations, any of which could disrupt our operations, increase our costs, require us to respond to findings from regulatory agencies that may divert resources and assets, and result in potential civil fines and penalties as well as other legal action. In extreme cases, adverse findings could lead to criminal fines and penalties. Information technology system failures or breaches of our network security could interrupt our operations and subject us to increased operating costs, as well as to litigation and other liabilities, all of which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. We rely heavily on our in-restaurant and enterprise-wide computer systems and network infrastructure across our operations (“Cyber Environment”), which could be vulnerable to various risks. The efficient management of our operations depends upon our ability to protect our Cyber Environment against damage from physical theft, casualties such as fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other catastrophic events, as well as from internal and external security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms, malware, breaches of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect data, including consumer transaction and credit card data, and other disruptive problems caused by hackers or others who intentionally target Cyber Environment vulnerabilities of companies such as ours (collectively, “security incidents”). We employ both internal resources and external consultants to conduct auditing and testing for weaknesses in our Cyber Environment to reduce the likelihood of any security incident and we have developed a multi-disciplined security incident response plan to help ensure that our executives are fully and accurately informed and managing, with the help of content experts, the discovery, investigation, auditing and recovery stages of any security incidents. However, we can provide no assurance that these measures will be successful in preventing losses in the event of a security incident. Also, our international licensees have access to certain elements of our intellectual property within their Cyber Environment and may not have developed processes to secure their systems and equipment against a security incident or maintain auditing, testing, investigation or recovery protocols that are as robust as our own, or have the ability to respond to a security incident to the same extent as we may be able to. Although we maintain a cyber-risk insurance program, available coverage and policy limits may not adequately cover or compensate us in the event of a security incident. Our financial performance may be materially adversely affected if: · our operations are interrupted because of a security incident; · we are not able to promptly recover from a security incident; · our Cyber Risk insurance program is unable to fully address our losses; or · we are subjected to litigation or regulatory action because of a security incident. However, we can provide no assurance that these measures will be successful and any damage to or failure of our Cyber Environment to operate effectively because of such events could cause significant delays in customer service, reduce efficiency in our operations, and require significant capital investments to remediate these issues, any of which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. 17 Table of Contents Our inability to maintain a secure environment for customers’ and staff members’ personal data could harm our reputation and result in litigation against us, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. We receive and maintain certain personal information about our customers and staff members. For example, we transmit confidential credit card information in connection with credit card transactions, and we are required to collect and maintain certain personal information in connection with our employment practices, including the administration of our benefit plans. The collection and use of this information by us is regulated at the federal and state levels, and the regulatory environment related to information security and privacy is increasingly demanding. If a security incident occurs involving loss or inappropriate access to or dissemination of such personal information, we could be in breach of applicable laws, incur penalties and other costs to remedy such incident, and such event could harm our reputation and result in litigation against us, any of which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Our ability to accept credit cards as payment in our restaurants and for on-line gift card orders depends on us remaining compliant with standards set by the PCI Security Standards Council (PCI). These standards require certain levels of Cyber Environment security and procedures to protect our customers’ credit card and other personal information. We continue to evaluate additional security enhancements and have implemented end-to-end encryption and tokenization technology. However, we can provide no assurance that our security measures will be successful in the event of an attempted or actual security incident. If these security measures are not successful, we may become subject to litigation or the imposition of regulatory penalties, which could result in negative publicity and significantly harm our reputation, either of which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could limit our ability to globally expand our brand, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. We own and have applied to register trade names, logos, service marks, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property (collectively, “Intellectual Property”), including The Cheesecake Factory®, The Cheesecake Factory Bakery®, Grand Lux Cafe® and Rocksugar Pan Asian Kitchen® in the United States and in additional countries throughout the world. Our Intellectual Property is valuable to our business and requires continuous monitoring to protect. We protect our Intellectual Property in a variety of ways, including by contract and by registration in the United States and in various countries throughout the world. We regularly and systemically search for misappropriations of our Intellectual Property and seek to enforce our rights whenever appropriate to do so; however, we cannot be assured of success in every case and cannot possibly find all infringing uses of our Intellectual Property. Furthermore, we have not registered all of our Intellectual Property throughout the world, as doing so may not be feasible because of associated costs or various foreign trademark law prohibitions. Our inability to effectively protect our Intellectual Property domestically or internationally could limit our ability to globally expand our brand thereby materially adversely affecting our financial performance. We face a variety of risks related to our international expansion and global brand development efforts that could negatively affect our brand, require additional infrastructure to support such efforts, and expose us to additional liabilities under foreign laws, any of which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. International operations have a unique set of risks that differ from country to country, and can include, among other risks, political instability, governmental corruption, social, religious and ethnic unrest, anti-American sentiment, loss of senior executives while traveling to foreign destinations, delayed and potentially less effective ability to respond to a crisis occurring internationally, changes in economic conditions (such as currency valuation, disposable income, climate change, unemployment levels and increases in the prices of commodities and labor), the regulatory environment, labor and pension laws, income and other taxes, consumer preferences and practices, as well as changes in the laws and regulations governing foreign investment, joint ventures or licensing arrangements in countries where our licensees are located, the financial stability and wherewithal of our licensees, and local import controls. Our international licensees are authorized to operate The Cheesecake Factory restaurant concept using our Intellectual Property and systems, and to provide our branded food and bakery products directly to consumers in The Cheesecake Factory restaurants opened in the licensed areas. We provide extensive and detailed training to our licensees so their employees may be able to effectively execute our operating processes and procedures. However, since we do not operate these restaurants directly, we can provide no assurance that our licensees will adhere to our operating standards in the same manner as we would were such restaurants operated directly by us. The products and services our licensees deliver in our branded restaurants may be negatively affected by factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to: · difficulties in achieving the consistency of product quality and service as compared to restaurants we operate in the United States; · changes to our recipes required by cultural norms; · inability to obtain adequate and reliable supplies of ingredients and products necessary to execute our diverse menu; · availability of experienced management to operate their restaurants according to our standards; · changes in economic conditions of our licensees, whether or not related to the operation of our restaurants; and · differences, changes or uncertainties in economic, regulatory, legal, social, climatic, and political conditions, including the possibility of terrorism and social unrest, which may delay our international expansion, result in periodic or permanent closure of foreign restaurants and affect international perception of our brand. 18 Table of Contents If our licensees have difficulty operating our concept effectively, or receiving an adequate return on their investments, and these difficulties are attributed to us or our brand, our reputation and brand value could be harmed, our revenue from these restaurants could be diminished, and our international growth may be slowed, any of which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. In order to support our international expansion, our bakeries supply certain of our branded bakery products to our branded restaurants operated by our international licensees. In order to supply bakery products to these restaurants, we must adapt certain recipes to eliminate locally prohibited ingredients, comply with labeling requirements that differ from those in the United States, and maintain certifications required to export to such countries. In addition, unexpected events outside of our control, such as trade restrictions, import and export embargos, governmental shutdowns and disruptions in shipping, may affect our ability to transport adequate levels of bakery products to our licensees, for whom we are a sole source of supply for our branded desserts. A failure to adequately supply bakery products to our internationally branded restaurants could affect the customer experience at those restaurants, resulting in decreased sales, and could, depending upon the reason for the failure, trigger contractual defaults on our part, any of which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. As we continue the international expansion of our brand, we must comply with regulations and legal requirements, including those related to the protection of our Intellectual Property. Additionally, we must comply with domestic laws affecting United States businesses that operate internationally, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-boycott laws, and with foreign laws in the countries in which we expand our restaurants. (See Risk Factor “Changes in, or any failure to comply with, applicable laws or regulations could materially adversely affect our ability to operate our restaurants and/or increase our cost to do so, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance.”) Our financial performance may also be materially adversely affected by liabilities, costs and expenses we may incur in the event we become subject to lawsuits or other legal actions resulting from the acts or omissions of our licensees. This is true even though we have taken reasonable steps to protect against such liabilities, including by obtaining contractual indemnifications and insurance coverage. From time to time we may evaluate acquisitions, joint ventures or other initiatives that could distract management from our business and may create other risks to our business, which may materially adversely affect our financial performance. We continue to evaluate emerging brands and review the feasibility and likely long-term success of acquiring or developing new brands or expanding potential brand licensing to non-restaurant areas, such as retail products. As part of this evaluation, we may be presented with opportunities to buy or develop businesses that provide growth opportunities. Any involvement in any such acquisition, merger, joint venture, alliance or divestiture, and any expansion of our brand to non-restaurant areas, may create inherent risks, including without limitation: · inaccurate assessment of value, growth potential, weaknesses, liabilities, contingent or otherwise, and expected profitability of such ventures; · inability to achieve any anticipated operating synergies or economies of scale; · potential loss of key personnel of any acquired business; · challenges in successfully integrating, operating and managing acquired businesses and workforce and instilling our company culture in new management and staff; · difficulties in aligning enterprise management systems, compensation and benefit plans and policies and procedures; · unforeseen changes in the market and economic condition affecting the acquired business or venture; · possibility of impairment charges if an acquired business does not meet the performance expectations upon which the acquisition price was based; and · diversion of management’s attention and focus from existing operations to the integration of the acquired or merged business and its personnel or to the expansion of the brand to non-restaurant items. 19 Table of Contents If we do not appropriately scale our infrastructure in a timely manner we may be unable to respond to and support our domestic or international opportunities for growth, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. We continually evaluate the appropriate level of infrastructure necessary to support our operational and development plans, including our domestic and international expansion. If market conditions improve and we are able to identify enough high quality sites to significantly increase the planned number of new restaurant openings in the future, we may be unable to scale or manage the growth of our corporate and field supervision infrastructure in the short term to appropriately support our expansion. Likewise, if sales decline, we may be unable to reduce our infrastructure quickly enough to prevent sales deleveraging which would materially adversely affect our financial performance. Our international license agreements require us to provide training and support to our licensees for their development and operation of The Cheesecake Factory restaurants. We have dedicated certain corporate personnel to international development and continue to utilize the talents of existing management, as we grow our international licensing and operations infrastructure. In addition, one of the most important aspects of our restaurant operations is our ability to deliver dependable, quality service by experienced staff members who can execute our concepts according to our high standards. This may require training our licensees’ management in the United States and our licensees’ employees in the licensed territories, as well as providing support in the selection and development of restaurant sites, product sourcing logistics, technological systems, and menu modification. If we are unable to provide the appropriate level of infrastructure support to our international licensees, including due to the lack of available personnel or due to foreign or domestic restrictions on the ability of our employees to provide training in licensed countries or our licensees’ employees to receive training domestically, or due to self-imposed restrictions on travel of our employees as a result of terrorism or other political unrest in areas in which our licensees operate, our contractual relationships and future international expansion opportunities may be harmed resulting in an adverse effect on our financial performance. Our inability to successfully operate or expand our Grand Lux Cafe and RockSugar Pan Asian Kitchen brands could materially adversely affect our financial performance. All of our restaurants are subject to the risks and uncertainties described in this filing. However, there is an enhanced level of risk and uncertainty related to the operation and potential expansion of our less-established brands, Grand Lux Cafe and RockSugar Pan Asian Kitchen. We discuss potential Grand Lux Cafe and RockSugar Pan Asian Kitchen sites with landlords and currently plan to open as many as one additional Grand Lux Cafe in fiscal 2016. However, we can provide no assurance that new units will be accepted in the markets targeted for the expansion of this concept or that we will be able to achieve our targeted returns when opening new locations. Any such event could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Changes in, or any failure to comply with, applicable laws or regulations could materially adversely affect our ability to operate our restaurants and/or increase our cost to do so, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. We are required to comply with various Federal, State and local laws and regulations, including, without limitation, those relating to alcoholic beverage control, public health and safety, access and use by the disabled, environmental hazards, labor and employment laws, including without limitation, equal wage laws and exempt versus non-exempt employee classifications, and food safety and labeling laws. Changes to these laws and regulations may create challenges for us, and while we subscribe to certain services and have established procedures to identify changes in the laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we will identify every change and comply therewith on a timely basis. We may incur penalties and other costs, sanctions and adverse publicity by failing to comply with applicable laws, any of which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. The failure to obtain and/or retain licenses, permits or other regulatory approvals required to operate our business could delay or prevent the opening and/or continued operation of a restaurant or operation of our baking establishments, materially adversely affecting that facility’s operations and profitability and could materially adversely affect our ability to obtain these licenses elsewhere. In addition, the failure to comply with governmental regulations could subject us to penalties and interruptions in operations. In certain states, we may be subject to “dram shop” statutes that generally allow a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Dram shop litigation may result in significant judgments, including punitive damages. A settlement or judgment against us under a dram shop statute in excess of our general liability insurance coverage could materially adversely affect our financial performance. We avail ourselves of provisions in current federal and state tax laws that are favorable to our industry. Significant changes to those laws as a result of comprehensive federal tax reform, changes in the landscape of taxation of multi-state companies like ours, or changes to existing tax laws in countries where our licensees operate, could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Significant increases in minimum wages, including the tip credit wage in certain states, paid or unpaid leaves of absence, equal wage legislation, mandatory sick pay and paid time off regulations in a growing number of states and localities, mandated health and/or COBRA benefits, or increased tax reporting, assessment or payment requirements related to our staff members who receive gratuities, or changes in interpretations of existing employment law, including with respect to classification of exempt versus non-exempt employees, could also materially adversely affect our financial performance. 20 Table of Contents We are subject to federal and state laws that prohibit discrimination in the workplace and that set standards for the design, accessibility and operation of public facilities, such as the Americans with Disabilities Act. Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and failure to comply could create exposure to government proceedings and litigation. Even a perceived failure to comply could result in negative publicity that could damage our reputation and materially adversely affect our financial performance. In addition, various federal, state and local labor laws and regulations govern our operations and relationships with our staff members, including, but not limited to, minimum wages, breaks, overtime, deductions, certain benefits (including health care benefits), safety, working conditions and citizenship and legal residency requirements. Changes in, or any failure to comply with, these laws and regulations could subject us to fines or other legal actions. Settlements or judgments in connection therewith that are not insured against or are in excess of our coverage limitations could materially adversely affect our business and financial performance. Despite our efforts to maintain compliance with legal requirements, including implementation of electronic verification of legal work status, some of our staff members may not meet state and federal citizenship or residency requirements. This could result in a disruption in our work force, sanctions against us and adverse publicity. In addition, immigration-related employment regulations, on both the state and federal level, may make it more difficult for us to identify and hire qualified staff members. (See Risk Factor “We face a variety of risks related to our international expansion and global brand development efforts that could negatively affect our brand, require additional infrastructure to support such efforts, and expose us to additional liabilities under foreign laws, any of which could materially adversely affect our financial performance” for a discussion of regulatory risks related to our international expansion.) Our inability to respond appropriately to changes in consumer health and disclosure regulations could negatively impact our operations and competitive position, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. PPACA requires restaurant operators with twenty or more locations to make certain nutritional information available to customers. The nutritional disclosure requirements under PPACA are intended to preempt a patchwork of state and local laws regarding nutritional content disclosures that became prevalent over the past several years. Establishments covered by the nutritional disclosure requirements under PPACA have until December 1, 2016 to comply with the new rules. Until the new rules are implemented and enforced, uncertainty with respect to certain details of the new rules and how they will be enforced will continue. Additionally, until the new rules take effect in December 2016, many states, counties and cities are expected to continue to enforce their own nutritional content disclosure requirements. The continued uncertainty relating to nutritional content disclosure and ongoing need to comply with a patchwork of various state and local disclosure requirements continues to be a challenge for us, raising our compliance cost and exposing us to risk of non-compliance. Also, since our menus are printed on a periodic basis, the timing of implementation of new requirements can affect our ability to timely and accurately comply with such legislation, especially when it is subject to continuous changes in interpretation and delays in implementation. Some states and local and foreign governments also have enacted legislation regulating or prohibiting the sales or disclosure of certain types and/or levels of ingredients in food served in restaurants, such as trans fats, sodium, GMOs and gluten, and are considering taxing and/or otherwise regulating high fat, high sugar and high sodium foods. The success of our restaurant and bakery operations and that of our international licensees depends, in part, upon our ability to respond effectively to changes in consumer health and disclosure regulations and to adapt our menu offerings and bakery selections to changes in governmental requirements. If consumer health regulations change significantly, we may be required to modify or discontinue certain menu items. In addition, dietary restrictions in some international locations where our licensees plan to operate may require us to modify or discontinue serving certain menu items in those locations. Our inability to respond with appropriate changes to our bakery and menu offerings in response to regulations governing the sale or disclosure of certain ingredients could result in us being unable to sell certain bakery products or menu items in certain jurisdictions and could also lead to negative publicity about our bakery products or menu items, which, in turn, could materially affect customer demand for our concepts and could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Labor organizing could harm our operations and competitive position in the restaurant industry, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Our staff members and others may attempt to unionize our workforce, establish boycotts or picket lines or interrupt our supply chains which could limit our ability to manage our workforce effectively and cause disruptions to our operations, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. A loss of our ability to effectively manage our workforce and the compensation and benefits we offer to our staff members could significantly increase our labor costs, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. 21 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage our business risks, costs associated with litigation and insurance could increase, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. We are subject to lawsuits, administrative proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. These matters typically involve claims by customers, staff members and others regarding issues such as food-borne illness, food safety, premises liability, compliance with wage and hour requirements, work-related injuries, discrimination, harassment, disability and other operational issues common to the foodservice industry. In states with “dram shop” statutes, we may become subject to dram shop litigation that could result in significant judgments, including punitive damages. We could be materially adversely affected by negative publicity and litigation costs resulting from these claims, regardless of their validity. Employment-related litigation, particularly with respect to claims styled as class action lawsuits, are especially costly to defend. Also, some employment-related claims in the area of wage and hour disputes are not insurable risks and many employment-related disputes involve uncertainty in judicial interpretation from state to state and from federal to state court with respect to the effectiveness of arbitration agreements with our employees, particular those which provide for class waivers. Significant legal fees and costs in complex class action litigation or an adverse judgment or settlement that are not insured or are in excess of insurance coverage can materially adversely affect our financial performance. We retain the financial responsibility for a significant portion of our risks and associated liabilities with respect to workers’ compensation, general liability, employment practices, staff health benefits and certain other insurable risks. A number of factors may significantly increase our self-insurance costs, such as, conditions of the insurance market, the availability of insurance, or changes in local, state and/or federal regulations. The accrued liabilities associated with these programs are based on our estimate of the ultimate costs to settle known claims as well as claims incurred but not yet reported to us (“IBNR”) as of each balance sheet date. Significant judgment is required to estimate IBNR amounts as parties have yet to assert such claims. Our financial performance may be materially adversely affected if our actual claims costs significantly exceed our estimates. If we are unable to effectively grow sales or reduce costs over time at certain of our restaurants, we may be required to record impairment charges, be unable to fully recoup landlord improvement allowances and/or decide to discontinue operations at these restaurants, any of which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. We assess the potential impairment of our long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of the assets or asset group may not be recoverable. Factors considered include, but are not limited to, significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner in which an asset is being used, an expectation that an asset will be disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life and significant negative industry or economic trends. We regularly review restaurants that are cash flow negative for the previous four quarters and those that are being considered for closure or relocation to determine if impairment testing is warranted. (See “Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Lease Terminations” in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our impairment assessments.) At any given time, we may be monitoring certain locations, and future impairment charges and/or closures may occur if individual restaurant performance does not improve, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. A portion of our tenant allowances at certain premises may be subject to recoupment against percentage rent otherwise payable for such sites. When we are unable to achieve sales in a sufficient amount to generate percentage rent obligations, we are not able to fully recoup available allowances at affected sites, which also could materially adversely affect our financial performance. If any of our third party vendors experiences a failure that affects an essential business process of ours, we may be subject to certain risks and may experience data loss, increased costs or other harm, any of which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. In order to leverage our internal resources and information technology infrastructure, and to support our business continuity and disaster recovery planning efforts in the event of a physical loss or damage to our corporate facilities, we utilize third-party vendors to assist us with some of our essential business processes. For example, we rely on a network of third-party distribution warehouses to deliver ingredients and other materials to our restaurants. In some instances, these processes rely on technology and may be outsourced to the vendor in their entirety and in other instances we utilize these vendors’ externally-hosted business applications. Some of the technological processes for which we utilize third parties include, but are not limited to, gift card tracking and authorization, labor scheduling, email hosting, web site hosting, file collaboration, restaurant back office, benefits administration and staff recruiting. We continue to review options to expand the use of third party providers in other areas, such as mobile payment and on-line ordering and delivery. Our practice is to work with service providers that are leading performers in their industries and with technology vendors that employ up to date and appropriate data security practices and internal control practices, such as redundant processing facilities. However, we cannot guarantee that failures will not occur. The failure of third-party vendors to provide adequate services, including protection of sensitive data, could significantly harm our operations and reputation, and could materially adversely affect our financial performance. 22 Table of Contents Our inability or failure to execute on comprehensive business continuity and disaster recovery plans following a major natural or manmade disaster, including terrorism, at our corporate or bakery facilities could result in delayed recovery, loss of data, an inability to perform vital corporate functions, reduced capacity to produce bakery products, and other harm, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Most of our core and critical applications are housed in an external tier III data center, and we plan to move additional applications to this environment in 2016. To mitigate business interruptions, we employ a disk-based data backup and replication infrastructure between our onsite and external data centers so all data is replicated nightly between the two sites. We provide support for our restaurant operations, with the exception of design and construction, from our corporate headquarters in Calabasas, California, an area that is prone to natural disasters such as earthquakes and wildfires. In addition, corporate support for our bakery operations is also at this centralized location, with the exception of our East Coast bakery production and fulfillment facility. If we are unable to execute our disaster recovery procedures in whole or in part, we may experience delays in recovery and losses of data, inability to perform vital corporate functions, tardiness in required reporting and compliance, failures to adequately support field operations and other breakdowns in normal operating procedures that could expose us to administrative and other legal claims and could materially adversely affect our financial performance. A closure or material damage to one or both of our bakery facilities may result in an inability to fulfill or a slowdown in fulfillment of our bakery products, both to our own and our international licensees’ restaurants as well as to third parties, and losses of data regarding our bakery operations, and could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Adverse weather conditions, seasonal fluctuations, natural disasters, effects of climate change, active shooter situations, terrorism, terrorist threats and health epidemics (or fears about them) could unfavorably impact our restaurant sales, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Adverse weather conditions and natural disasters can impact customer traffic at our restaurants, cause the temporary underutilization of outdoor patio seating, and, in more severe cases, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, blizzards or other natural disasters, cause a temporary inability to obtain supplies, increase commodity costs and cause closures of our affected restaurants, sometimes for prolonged periods, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Seasonal fluctuations may result from the calendar days of the week on which holidays occur, which may impact consumer spending patterns. Increasing frequency and unpredictability of adverse weather conditions due to climate changes may result in decreased overall customer traffic, less accurate year-to-year comparisons in sales and other factors affecting financial performance. Active shooter situations, terrorist activities, health epidemics or fear of such events occurring may have a similarly adverse impact. Our cash flows may be negatively impacted by delay in the receipt of proceeds under any insurance policies or programs we maintain against certain of these risks or the proceeds may not fully offset any such losses. Any or all of these situations could materially adversely affect our financial performance. New restaurant openings may negatively impact sales at our existing restaurants, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. The opening of a new restaurant could negatively impact sales at one or more of our existing restaurants nearby, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. It is not our intention to open new restaurants that materially cannibalize the sales of our existing restaurants. However, there can be no assurance that such sales impact will not occur or become more significant in the future as we gradually increase our presence in existing markets to maximize our competitive position and financial performance in each market. Our failure to establish, maintain and apply adequate internal control over our financial reporting and comply with changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud, any of which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These provisions provide for the identification of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting — a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. If we experience a material weakness in internal controls, there can be no assurance that we will be able to remediate such material weakness in a timely manner or maintain all of the controls necessary to remain in compliance. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Additionally, changes in accounting standards or new accounting pronouncements and interpretations may occur that could materially adversely affect our previously reported or future financial results, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. 23 Table of Contents Failure to satisfy financial covenants and/or repayment requirements under our credit facility could harm our financial condition, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. We have an unsecured revolving credit facility (“Facility”) with an available borrowing commitment of $200 million and with a conditional increase feature that could provide for an additional $100 million in available credit, subject to lenders’ willingness to commit thereto and satisfaction of certain conditions. The Facility requires us to maintain certain financial covenants. At December 29, 2015, we were in compliance with these covenants and had no outstanding debt balance under the Facility. However, any failure to maintain these debt covenants or have sufficient liquidity to either repay or refinance the then outstanding balance at expiration of the Facility, or upon violation of the covenants, would materially adversely affect our financial performance. (See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 for additional information concerning our long-term debt.) Risks Related to Owning Our Stock The market price of our common stock is subject to volatility. During fiscal 2015, the price of our common stock fluctuated between $45.17 and $58.86 per share. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, actual or anticipated variations in our operating results or those of our competitors as compared to analyst expectations, changes in financial estimates by research analysts with respect to us or others in the restaurant industry, and announcements of significant transactions (including mergers or acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures or other strategic initiatives) by us or others in the restaurant industry. In addition, the equity markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that affect the stock price of companies in ways that have been unrelated to an individual company’s operating performance. The price of our common stock may continue to be volatile, based on factors specific to our company and industry, as well as factors related to the equity markets overall. We may not be able to achieve our target of average mid-teens growth in total return to shareholders. We define our total returns as earnings per share growth plus our dividend yield. Comparable restaurant sales that are below our target, slowing growth of our concepts domestically, a decline in growth of our international business or any event that causes our operating costs to substantially increase or an inability to repurchase our stock as expected could slow EPS growth and reduce total returns. Any of these occurrences on a multi-year basis, or a decline in our dividend yield, could bring about lower than targeted average mid-teens growth in total returns, which could negatively affect our stock price. If we are unable to continue to pay, or if we are unable to increase dividends, our stock price may be harmed. Our dividend program requires the use of a substantial amount of our free cash flow. Our ability to pay and increase our dividends over time will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations and capacity to borrow funds, which may be subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. Any failure to pay or increase our dividends over time may negatively impact investor confidence in us, and may negatively impact our stock price. We have a stockholder rights plan, or “poison pill,” which could affect the price of our common stock and make it more difficult for a potential acquirer to purchase a large portion of our securities, to initiate a tender offer or a proxy contest, or to acquire us. In August 2008, our Board of Directors extended our stockholder rights plan, commonly known as a “poison pill,” until August 2018. The poison pill may discourage, delay, or prevent a third party from acquiring a large portion of our securities, initiating a tender offer or proxy contest, or acquiring us through an acquisition, merger or similar transaction even if our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares over the then-current market price in the event of such transaction. There may be future sales or other dilution of our equity that may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue additional shares of common stock and additional classes or series of preferred stock without any action on the part of the stockholders. The Board of Directors also has the discretion, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over the common stock with respect to dividends or upon the liquidation or winding up of our business and other terms. If we issue preferred shares that have a preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred shares with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of our common stockholders or the market price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 