Item 1A. Risk Factors. If We Fail to Compete Successfully in the Future Against Existing or Potential Competitors, Our Operating Results May Be Adversely Affected. Our principal global competitors with respect to our entire cardiac resuscitation equipment product line are Physio-Control and Philips. Physio-Control is a subsidiary of Medtronic, Inc., a leading medical technology company, and has been the market leader in the defibrillator industry for over 20 years. As a result of Physio-Control’s large position in this industry, many potential customers have relationships with Physio-Control that could make it difficult for us to continue to penetrate the markets for our products. In addition, Medtronic and Philips and other competitors each have significantly greater resources than we do. Accordingly, Medtronic, Philips and other competitors could substantially increase the resources they devote to the development and marketing of products that are competitive with ours. These and other competitors may develop and successfully commercialize medical devices that directly or indirectly accomplish what our products are designed to accomplish in a superior and/or less expensive manner. There are a number of smaller competitors in the United States, which include Cardiac Science Corporation, HeartSine Technology, and Defibtech. Internationally, we face the same competitors as in the United States as 25 Table of Contents well as Nihon Kohden, Corpuls, Schiller, and other local competitors. It is possible the market may embrace these competitors’ products, which could negatively impact our market share. Additional companies may enter the market. For example, GE Healthcare entered the hospital market through cooperation with Cardiac Science Corporation. They have currently been focused on the International market but could begin to focus on the U.S. market, as well, which may impair our ability to gain market share. Currently, we believe there are no competitors for our LifeVest product. However, competitors may develop their own products to compete against the LifeVest. It is possible that similar products developed by competitors could be superior to or more cost-effective than our LifeVest product. Consequently, our ability to sell/lease/rent the LifeVest could be materially affected and our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. In addition to external defibrillation and external pacing with cardiac resuscitation equipment, it is possible that other alternative therapeutic approaches to the treatment of sudden cardiac arrest may be developed. These alternative therapies or approaches, including pharmaceutical or other alternatives, could prove to be superior to our products. There is significant competition in the business of developing and marketing software for data collection, billing, scheduling, dispatching, records and resource management in the emergency medical system and fire markets. Our principal competitors in this business include Sansio, Healthware Technologies, Inc., Safety Pad Software, ImageTrend, Inc., eCore Software Solutions, Inc., PDSI Software, Inc., EnRoute Emergency Systems (formerly Geac Computer Corporation, Ltd.), DocuMed, Inc., Tritech Software Systems, Inc., Ortivus AB, RAM Software Systems, Inc., Intergraph Corporation, Affiliated Computer Services, Inc., Emergency Reporting, Inc., AmbPac, Inc., ESO Solutions, Golden Hour and Innovative Engineering, some of which have greater financial, technical, research and development and marketing resources than we do. Because the barriers to entry in this business are relatively low, additional competitors may easily enter this market in the future. It is possible that systems developed by competitors could be superior to our data management system. Consequently, our ability to sell our data management systems could be materially affected and our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. Our principal competitors in the area of temperature management are Philips, Medivance Inc., Gaymar Industries, Inc. and Cincinnati SubZero Products, Inc. (CSZ). The temperature management market is primarily divided into “Intravascular” technologies and “Surface” technologies. Philips has entered both the intravascular and surface markets with the July 15, 2009 acquisition of Innercool Therapies, Incorporated. The Innercool RapidBlue™ system provides Philips an endovascular product that competes with ZOLL’s IVTM solution. Philips also competes in the surface cooling market with Innercool’s CoolBlue™ system (manufactured by CSZ). This product competes in the same marketplace with Gaymar and Cincinnati SubZero. ZOLL expects Philips to be more active in the promotion of the Innercool technology. Medivance, Inc. markets the Arctic Sun® Temperature Management system. This surface technology utilizes gel coated pads that are placed directly on the patient’s skin. These pads can have either cold or warm water circulating depending upon the mode of operation. Medivance continues to aggressively market their products within the U.S. marketplace. Both Cincinnati SubZero (Blanketrol®) and Gaymar Industries, Inc. (Medi-Therm®) provide cooling blanket products that are wrapped around the patient. The Resumption of Unrestricted Shipments of Physio-Control, a Division of Medtronic, May Adversely Affect our Revenues and Profits. Physio-Control is under consent decree with the FDA which has had some impact on our business. For example, Physio-Control has not been shipping low-end AEDs. If they resume shipments, it may adversely affect our revenues in the future. 26 Table of Contents Healthcare Reform Legislation Could Adversely Affect Our Revenue and Financial Condition. There have been numerous initiatives on the federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms affecting the reimbursement for healthcare services in the United States. These initiatives have ranged from changing federal and state healthcare reimbursement programs, including providing coverage to the public under governmental funded programs, to minor modifications to existing programs. Recently, President Obama and members of Congress have proposed significant changes to the U.S. healthcare system. The U.S. House of Representatives has passed a healthcare reform bill that would have a wide-ranging impact on the U.S. healthcare system. The U.S. Senate is currently debating similar legislation. This legislation includes a government health insurance option to compete with private plans and other expanded public healthcare measures. In addition, the leading proposals in the U.S. Senate include a substantial excise tax on medical device manufacturers. The ultimate content or timing of any future healthcare reform legislation, and its impact on us, is impossible to predict. If significant reforms are made to the healthcare system in the United States, or in other jurisdictions, those reforms may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. General Economic Conditions, Which Are Largely Out of the Company’s Control, May Adversely Affect the Company’s Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Company’s businesses may be affected by changes in general economic conditions, both nationally and internationally. Recessionary economic cycles, higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, inflation, higher levels of unemployment, changes in the laws or industry regulations or other economic factors may adversely affect the demand for the Company’s products. Additionally, these economic factors, as well as higher tax rates, increased costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, and changes in other laws and regulations may increase the Company’s cost of sales and operating expenses, which may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Recent Economic Trends Could Adversely Affect our Financial Performance. The global economic recession has adversely affected the levels of both our sales and profitability. The domestic and global financial and credit markets continue to experience declines or slow growth and there continues to be diminished liquidity and credit availability. We believe these conditions have not materially affected our financial position or our liquidity. However, we could be negatively impacted if these conditions continue for a sustained period of time, or if there is further deterioration in financial markets and major economies. The current tightening of credit in financial markets may adversely affect the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing, which could result in a decrease in, or deferrals or cancellations of, the sale of our products and services. In addition, weakening economic conditions and outlook may result in a further decline in the level of our customers’ spending that could adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. Our primary business is the sale of capital equipment. While customers may delay their capital equipment purchases of defibrillator products in the near-term due to the current economic environment, the equipment is a standard of care and will ultimately need to be replaced. However, we cannot be sure as to how long such delays may continue. However, our AutoPulse product and certain of our other products are not currently standards of care. Consequently, customers may indefinitely postpone the purchase of these products and any of their accessories. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in the domestic and global financial markets and the related adverse economic conditions. For example, during fiscal 2009, our North American Hospital sales decreased approximately 20% compared to fiscal 2008 which we believe was primarily due to the general economic downturn and the uncertainty of healthcare reform legislation which drove the curtailed spending. Current and Future State and Municipal Budget Deficits Could Adversely Affect our Financial Performance. Many of our customers include state and municipal agencies. In an article by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, the Center estimated that approximately 45 states are facing or will face budget deficits in fiscal 27 Table of Contents 2009 and/or fiscal 2010. Because of these budget deficits, our customers may delay their purchases of capital equipment from the Company due to the current economic environment. Significant purchasing delays may adversely affect our financial performance. The Adoption of Federal Medical Device Tax Surcharge by the U.S. Government Could Reduce Our Profitability. There has been discussion of imposing a federal medical device tax surcharge on all medical device companies to help pay for Healthcare Reform. Approximately 80% of our revenues come from capital equipment and related accessories sales. Although little benefit would be derived from Healthcare Reform as it relates to this portion of our business, the U.S. Congress is considering anywhere from a 2.5% to 5% surtax on 100% of our domestic revenues. As we would derive limited benefit from Healthcare Reform, we would seek to pass this surtax on to our customers. If we are unsuccessful, this surtax could reduce our profitability. Additionally, because of the uncertainty surrounding this issue, the impact of such a surtax, if passed, has not been reflected in our forward guidance. It is Possible that if Competitors Increase Their Use of Price Discounting, Our Gross Margins Could Decline. Some competitors have, from time to time, used price discounting in order to attempt to gain market share. If this activity were to increase in the future it is possible that our gross margin and overall profitability could be adversely affected if we decided to respond in kind. Our Operating Results are Likely to Fluctuate, Which Could Cause Our Stock Price to be Volatile, and the Anticipation of a Volatile Stock Price Can Cause Greater Volatility. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate. Various factors have and may continue to affect our operating results, including: • high demand for our products, which could disrupt our normal factory utilization and cause shipments to occur in uneven patterns; • variations in product orders; • timing of new product introductions; • temporary disruptions of buying behavior due to changes in technology (e.g., shift from M Series to R Series or E Series defibrillators); • changes in distribution channels; • actions taken by our competitors such as the introduction of new products or the offering of sales incentives; • the ability of our sales forces to effectively market our products; • supply interruptions from our single-source vendors; • temporary manufacturing disruptions; • regulatory actions, including actions taken by the FDA or similar agencies; and • delays in obtaining domestic or foreign regulatory approvals. A large percentage of our sales are made toward the end of each quarter. As a consequence, our quarterly financial results are often dependent on the receipt of customer orders in the last weeks of a quarter. The absence of these orders could cause us to fall short of our quarterly sales targets, which, in turn, could cause our stock price to decline sharply. As we grow in size, and these orders are received closer to the end of a period, we may not be able to manufacture, test, and ship all orders in time to recognize the shipment as revenue for that quarter. 28 Table of Contents Based on these factors, period-to-period comparisons should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. In anticipation of less successful quarterly results, parties may take short positions in our stock. The actions of parties shorting our stock might cause even more volatility in our stock price. The volatility of our stock may cause the value of a stockholder’s investment to decline rapidly. We May Acquire Other Businesses, and We May Have Difficulty Integrating These Businesses or Generating an Acceptable Return from Acquisitions. We recently acquired certain assets from Welch Allyn, Inc. and Alsius Corporation. We may acquire other companies or make strategic purchases of interests in other companies related to our business in order to grow, add product lines, acquire customers or otherwise attempt to gain a competitive advantage in new or existing markets. Such acquisitions and investments may involve the following risks: • our management may be distracted by these acquisitions and may be forced to divert a significant amount of time and energy into integrating and running the acquired businesses; • we may face difficulties associated with financing the acquisitions; • we may face the inability to achieve the desired outcomes justifying the acquisition; • we may face difficulties integrating the acquired business’ operations and personnel; and • we may face difficulties incorporating the acquired technology into our existing product lines. We Acquired New Products and Technologies, Such as Temperature Management Technology from Alsius Corporation. If We Are Not Successful in Integrating these Products and Technologies and Growing Our Business with These Products and Technologies, Our Operating Results May Be Affected. We have acquired temperature management technology. As part of the successful development of the market for this technology, where applicable, we must: • establish new marketing and sales strategies; • identify respected health professionals and organizations to champion the products; • work with potential customers to develop new sources of unbudgeted funding; • conduct successful clinical trials; • achieve early success for the product in the field; and • obtain FDA approval of new indications. If we are delayed or fail to achieve these market development initiatives, we may encounter difficulties building our customer base for these products. Sub-par results from any of these items, such as inconclusive results from clinical trials, could cause our operating results to be unfavorably affected. We Are Conducting Clinical Trials Related to Newer Technologies Which May Prove Unsuccessful and Have a Negative Impact on Future Sales. We are conducting clinical trials related to the AutoPulse and the LifeVest. While we are confident in the future outcomes of these trials, an unsuccessful trial could affect the marketability of these products in the future. We announced in April 2009 that the AutoPulse trial would run approximately six months longer than originally anticipated due to a battery issue. While this additional time is necessary, it will result in additional costs to conduct the trial and at the same time postpone the impact of any financial benefits if this trial is successful. 29 Table of Contents Our Approach to Our Backlog Might Not Be Successful. We maintain a backlog in order to generate operating efficiencies. If order rates are insufficient to maintain such a backlog, we may be subject to operating inefficiencies. We May be Required to Implement a Costly Product Recall. In the event that any of our products proves to be defective, we can voluntarily recall, or the FDA could require us to redesign or implement a recall of, any of our products. Both our larger competitors and we have, on numerous occasions, voluntarily recalled products in the past, and based on this experience, we believe that future recalls could result in significant costs to us and significant adverse publicity, which could harm our ability to market our products in the future. Though it may not be possible to quantify the economic impact of a recall, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We initiated a voluntary worldwide field corrective action on our AED Plus automated external defibrillator during the second quarter of fiscal 2009 because the batteries in the AED Plus were not performing as expected. This corrective action applies to approximately 180,000 AED Plus units. We expect to incur a total of approximately $1 million to cover the cost of this corrective action. Changes Affecting Healthcare Reimbursement and Payors May Require Us to Decrease the Selling Price for Our Products or Could Result in a Reduction in the Size of the Market for Our Products, Each of Which Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Financial Performance. Trends toward managed care, healthcare cost containment, and other changes in government and private sector initiatives in the United States and other countries in which we do business are placing increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical therapies, which could adversely affect the sale and/or the prices of our products. For example: • major third-party payers of hospital and pre-hospital services, including Medicare, Medicaid and private healthcare insurers, have substantially revised their payment methodologies during the last few years, which has resulted in stricter standards for reimbursement of hospital and pre-hospital charges for certain medical procedures; • Medicare, Medicaid and private healthcare insurer cutbacks could create downward price pressure in the cardiac resuscitation pre-hospital market; • there has been a consolidation among healthcare facilities and purchasers of medical devices in the United States who prefer to limit the number of suppliers from whom they purchase medical products, and these entities may decide to stop purchasing our products or demand discounts on our prices; • there is economic pressure to contain healthcare costs in international markets; • there are proposed and existing laws and regulations in domestic and international markets regulating pricing and profitability of companies in the healthcare industry; and • there have been initiatives by third-party payers to challenge the prices charged for medical products, which could affect our ability to sell products on a competitive basis. We expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Both the pressure to reduce prices for our products in response to these trends and the decrease in the size of the market as a result of these trends could adversely affect our levels of revenues and profitability of sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 30 Table of Contents We Can be Sued for Producing Defective Products and We May be Required to Pay Significant Amounts to Those Harmed If We are Found Liable, and Our Business Could Suffer from Adverse Publicity. The manufacture and sale of medical products such as ours entail significant risk of product liability claims, and product liability claims are made against us from time to time. Our quality control standards comply with FDA requirements, and we believe that the amount of product liability insurance we maintain is adequate based on past product liability claims in our industry. We cannot be assured that the amount of such insurance will be sufficient to satisfy claims made against us in the future or that we will be able to maintain insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts. Product liability claims could result in significant costs or litigation. A product liability lawsuit is currently pending. A successful claim brought against us in excess of our available insurance coverage or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recurring Sales of Electrodes to Our Customers May Decline. We typically have recurring sales of electrodes to our customers. Other vendors have developed electrode adaptors that allow generic electrodes to be compatible with our defibrillators. If we are unable to continue to differentiate the superiority of our electrodes over these generic electrodes, our future revenue from the sale of electrodes could be reduced, or our pricing and profitability could decline. Failure to Produce New Products or Obtain Market Acceptance for Our New Products in a Timely Manner Could Harm Our Business. Because substantially all of our revenue comes from the sale of cardiac resuscitation devices and related products, our financial performance will depend upon market acceptance of, and our ability to deliver and support, new products. We cannot be assured that we will be able to produce viable products in the time frames we currently estimate. Factors which could cause delay in these schedules or even cancellation of our projects to produce and market these new products include: research and development delays, the actions of our competitors producing competing products, and the actions of other parties who may provide alternative therapies or solutions, which could reduce or eliminate the markets for pending products. The degree of market acceptance of any of our products will depend on a number of factors, including: • our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner; • our ability to successfully implement new product technologies; • the market’s readiness to accept new products; • the standardization of an automated platform for data management systems; • the clinical efficacy of our products and the outcome of clinical trials; • the ability to obtain timely regulatory approval for new products; and • the prices of our products compared to the prices of our competitors’ products. If our new products do not achieve market acceptance, our financial performance could be adversely affected. Our Dependence on Sole and Single Source Suppliers Exposes Us to Supply Interruptions and Manufacturing Delays Caused by Faulty Components, Which Could Result in Product Delivery Delays and Substantial Costs to Redesign Our Products. Although we use many standard parts and components for our products, some key components are purchased from sole or single source vendors for which alternative sources at present are not readily available. For example, we currently purchase proprietary components, including capacitors, display screens, gate arrays and integrated circuits, for which there are no direct substitutes. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of 31 Table of Contents these components as well as our limited ability to deal with faulty components may result in future delays or reductions in product shipments, which could cause a fluctuation in our results of operations. These or any other components could be replaced with alternatives from other suppliers, which could involve a redesign of our products. Such a redesign could involve considerable time and expense. We could be at risk that the supplier might experience difficulties meeting our needs. If our manufacturers are unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing our components in required volumes, we will have to transfer manufacturing to acceptable alternative manufacturers which could result in significant interruptions of supply. The manufacture of these components is complex, and our reliance on the suppliers of these components exposes us to potential production difficulties and quality variations, which could negatively impact the cost and timely delivery of our products. Accordingly, any significant interruption in the supply, or degradation in the quality, of any component would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We May Not be Able to Obtain Appropriate Regulatory Approvals for Our New Products. The manufacture and sale of our products are subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities, principally the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies. The FDA administers the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Some of our products have been classified by the FDA as Class II devices and others, such as our AEDs, have been classified as Class III devices. All of these devices must secure a 510(k) pre-market notification clearance before they can be introduced into the U.S. market. The process of obtaining 510(k) clearance typically takes several months and may involve the submission of limited clinical data supporting assertions that the product is substantially equivalent to an already approved device or to a device that was on the market before the Medical Device Amendments of 1976. Recently, we have noticed the 510(k) process is taking longer as the applications appear to be subject to increased scrutiny. We believe this may be a result of recent pressure from Congress to review the current 510(k) process. Delays in obtaining 510(k) clearance could have an adverse effect on the introduction of future products. Moreover, approvals, if granted, may limit the uses for which a product may be marketed, which could reduce or eliminate the commercial benefit of manufacturing any such product. We are also subject to regulation in each of the foreign countries in which we sell products. Many of the regulations applicable to our products in such countries are similar to those of the FDA. However, the national health or social security organizations of certain countries require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed in those countries. We cannot be assured that such clearances will be obtained. For example, although we received U.S. 510(k) clearance on our biphasic waveform in 1999, to date we have not been able to obtain similar clearance in Japan. As a result, our Japanese defibrillator revenues are very modest. Although we anticipate clearance in the future, we can provide no such assurance that we will succeed. If We Fail to Comply With Applicable Regulatory Laws and Regulations, the FDA and Other U.S. and Foreign Regulatory Agencies Could Exercise Any of Their Regulatory Powers, Which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business. Every company that manufactures or assembles medical devices is required to register with the FDA and to adhere to certain quality systems, which regulate the manufacture of medical devices and prescribe record keeping procedures and provide for the routine inspection of facilities for compliance with such regulations. The FDA also has broad regulatory powers in the areas of clinical testing, marketing and advertising of medical devices. To ensure that manufacturers adhere to good manufacturing practices, medical device manufacturers are routinely subject to periodic inspections by the FDA. If the FDA believes that a company may not be operating in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, it could take any of the following actions: • place the company under observation and re-inspect the facilities; • issue a warning letter apprising of violating conduct; 32 Table of Contents • detain or seize products; • mandate a recall; • enjoin future violations; and • assess civil and criminal penalties against the company, its officers or its employees. We, like most of our U.S. competitors, have received warning letters from the FDA in the past, and we may receive warning letters in the future. The number of warning letters issued within the industry has been on the rise, and it appears the number of warning letters issued within the industry in 2009 will exceed 2008. We have always complied with the warning letters we have received. However, our failure to comply with FDA regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including restrictions on the marketing or recall of our products. These sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business. In general, the FDA is becoming increasingly active in its regulatory activities. For example, the FDA recently issued a safety alert in connection with low energy external biphasic defibrillators. The safety alert does not suggest the need for any change to current clinical practice, but the FDA is seeking additional information from healthcare professionals to determine if further FDA activities are advised. If a foreign regulatory agency believes that we are not operating in compliance with their laws and regulations, they could prevent us from selling our products in their country, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our Industry Is Experiencing Greater Scrutiny by Governmental Authorities, Which May Lead to Greater Governmental Regulation and Heightened Regulatory Enforcement. Our medical devices and our business activities are subject to rigorous regulation, including by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. These authorities and members of the U.S. Congress have been increasing their scrutiny of our industry. Certain states have recently passed or are considering legislation restricting our interactions with health care providers and requiring disclosure of many payments to them. While recent case law has clarified that the FDA’s authority over those medical devices for which the FDA has granted Premarket Approval (including our LifeVest product) preempts state tort laws, legislation has been introduced at the federal level to allow state intervention. We anticipate that governmental authorities will continue to scrutinize our industry closely and that additional regulation by governmental authorities may result in increased compliance costs, increased exposure to litigation and other adverse effects to our business. In addition, heightened regulatory enforcement arising from changes in the political and regulatory environment may adversely affect our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our products and to maintain for sale products previously approved. The FDA’s enhanced reporting requirements and ability to analyze reported data may result in more frequent field actions which may include communications to physicians and patients, recalls of products and repair or replacement of devices. One or more of these actions could have a material impact on our net sales, profitability and reputation in the marketplace. We Are Dependent upon Licensed and Purchased Technology for Upgradeable Features in Our Products, and We May Not Be Able to Renew These Licenses or Purchase Agreements in the Future. We license and purchase technology from third parties for upgradeable features in our products, including a 12 lead analysis program, SPO², EtCO², CO and NIBP technologies. We anticipate that we will need to license and purchase additional technology to remain competitive. We may not be able to renew our existing licenses and purchase agreements or to license and purchase other technologies on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to renew our existing licenses and purchase agreements or we are unable to license or purchase new technologies, we may not be able to offer competitive products. 33 Table of Contents Fluctuations in Currency Exchange Rates May Adversely Affect Our International Sales. Our revenue from foreign operations can be denominated in or significantly influenced by the currency and general economic climate of the country in which we make sales. A decrease in the value of such foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could result in downward price pressure for our products or losses from currency exchange rate fluctuations. As we continue to expand our international operations, downward price pressure and exposure to gains and losses on foreign currency transactions may increase. Approximately 32% of our revenue is generated in foreign markets. Approximately half of this revenue, representing our direct subsidiaries sales, is denominated in a foreign currency and, as such, is subject to direct foreign currency exposure. The currency exposure on the revenue is partially offset by the operating expenses which are also denominated in local currencies. The currency exposure is also partially offset by any forward contracts entered into to hedge our exposure to exchange rates. The other portion of revenue generated in the foreign markets is sold to distributors and is denominated in U.S. dollars. This revenue could be subject to price pressure as the U.S. dollar strengthens. We may use forward contracts and other instruments to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations from intercompany accounts receivable and forecasted intercompany sales to our subsidiaries denominated in foreign currencies, and we may not be able to do this successfully. Accordingly, we may experience economic loss and a negative impact on our results of operations and equity as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Our Current and Future Investments May Lose Value in the Future. We hold investments in two private companies and may in the future invest in the securities of other companies and participate in joint venture agreements. These investments and future investments are subject to the risks that the entities in which we invest will become bankrupt or lose money. Investing in other businesses involves risks and no assurance can be made as to the profitability of any investment. Our inability to identify profitable investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Unless we hold a majority position in an investment or joint venture, we will not be able to control all of the activities of the companies in which we invest or the joint ventures in which we are participating. Because of this, such entities may take actions against our wishes and not in furtherance of, and even opposed to, our business plans and objectives. These investments are also subject to the risk of impasse if no one party exercises ultimate control over the business decisions. Future Changes in Applicable Laws and Regulations Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business. Federal, state or foreign governments may change existing laws or regulations or adopt new laws or regulations that regulate our industry. Changes in or adoption of new laws or regulations could result in the following consequences that would have an adverse effect on our business: • regulatory clearance previously received for our products could be revoked; • costs of compliance could increase; or • we may be unable to comply with such laws and regulations so that we would be unable to sell our products. Changes in Tax Laws or Exposure to Additional Income Tax Liabilities Could Have a Material Impact on Our Financial Condition, Results of Operations and Liquidity. We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. We are also subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely 34 Table of Contents outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our net income or financial condition. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate. For example, proposals for fundamental U.S. international tax reform, such as recent proposals by the Obama administration and others that would have the effect of increasing U.S. taxes on non-U.S. income could, if enacted, have a significant adverse impact on our future results of operations. Some of Our Activities May Subject Us to Risks under Federal and State Laws Prohibiting “Kickbacks” and False or Fraudulent Claims. We are subject to the provisions of a federal law commonly known as the Medicare/Medicaid anti-kickback law, and several similar state laws, which prohibit payments intended to induce physicians or others either to refer patients or to acquire or arrange for or recommend the acquisition of healthcare products or services. While the federal law applies only to referrals, products or services for which payment may be made by a federal healthcare program, state laws often apply regardless of whether federal funds may be involved. These laws constrain the sales, marketing and other promotional activities of manufacturers of medical devices by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs, with hospitals, physicians, laboratories and other potential purchasers of medical devices. Other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent, or are for items or services that were not provided as claimed. Anti-kickback and false claims laws prescribe civil and criminal penalties (including fines) for noncompliance that can be substantial. While we continually strive to comply with these complex requirements, interpretations of the applicability of these laws to marketing practices is ever evolving and even an unsuccessful challenge could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business and prospects. Patients May Not Be Able to Obtain Appropriate Insurance Coverage for Our LifeVest Product. The ability of patients to obtain appropriate insurance coverage for our LifeVest product from government and third-party payors is critical to the success of the product. The availability of insurance coverage affects which products physicians may prescribe. Implementation of healthcare reforms in the United States and abroad may limit the price of, or the level at which, insurance is provided for our LifeVest product and adversely affect both our pricing flexibility and the demand for the product. Hospitals or physicians may respond to such pressures by substituting other therapies for our LifeVest product. Further legislative or administrative reforms to the U.S. or international reimbursement systems that significantly reduce insurance coverage for our LifeVest product or deny coverage for our LifeVest product, or adverse decisions regarding coverage or reimbursement issues relating to our LifeVest product by administrators of such systems would have an adverse impact on sales of our LifeVest product. This in turn could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our LifeVest Product is a Reimbursable Product and Is Subject to Laws that Are Different from Our Capital Equipment Business. The LifeVest product is our first reimbursed product which is different than our typical capital equipment business. The LifeVest product is governed by the Durable Medical Equipment Regulations and is subject to audit. The LifeVest is reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors, for which reimbursement rates may fall with little notice which may have an adverse impact on sales of our LifeVest product. Failure to Comply with HIPAA Obligations Would Put Us at Risk. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), which is primarily applicable to our LifeVest product, created two new federal crimes: healthcare fraud and false statements relating to healthcare matters. The healthcare fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to 35 Table of Contents execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payers. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines, imprisonment or exclusion from government-sponsored programs. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines or imprisonment. HIPAA also protects the security and privacy of individually identifiable health information maintained or transmitted by healthcare providers, health plans and healthcare clearinghouses. HIPAA restricts the use and disclosure of patient health information, including patient records. Although we believe that HIPAA does not apply to us directly, most of our customers have significant obligations under HIPAA, and we intend to cooperate with our customers and others to ensure compliance with HIPAA with respect to patient information that comes into our possession. Failure to comply with HIPAA obligations can entail criminal penalties. Some states have also enacted rigorous laws or regulations protecting the security and privacy of patient information. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could face additional sanctions. Uncertain Customer Decision Processes May Result in Long Sales Cycles, Which Could Result in Unpredictable Fluctuations in Revenues and Delay the Replacement of Cardiac Resuscitation Devices. Many of the customers in the pre-hospital market consist of municipal fire and emergency medical systems departments. As a result, there are numerous decision-makers and governmental procedures in the decision-making process. In addition, decisions at hospitals concerning the purchase of new medical devices are sometimes made on a department-by-department basis. Accordingly, we believe the purchasing decisions of many of our customers may be characterized by long decision-making processes, which have resulted in and may continue to result in long sales cycles for our products. For example, the sales cycles for cardiac resuscitation products typically have been between six to nine months, although some sales efforts have taken as long as two years. Reliance on Domestic and International Distributors to Sell Our Products Exposes Us to Business Risks That Could Result in Significant Fluctuations in Our Results of Operations. Although we perform credit assessments with sales to distributors, payment by the distributor may be affected by the financial stability of the customers to which the distributor sells. Future sales to distributors may also be affected by the distributor’s ability to successfully sell our products to their customers. Either of these scenarios could result in significant fluctuations in our results of operations. Our International Sales Expose Our Business to a Variety of Risks That Could Result in Significant Fluctuations in Our Results of Operations. Approximately 32% of our sales for fiscal 2009 were made to foreign purchasers, and we plan to increase the sale of our products to foreign purchasers in the future. As a result, a significant portion of our sales is and will continue to be subject to the risks of international business, including: • fluctuations in foreign currencies; • trade disputes; • changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers; • consequences of failure to comply with U.S. law and regulations concerning the conduct of business outside the U.S.; • the possibility of quotas, duties, taxes or other changes or restrictions upon the importation or exportation of the products being implemented by the United States or these foreign countries; 36 Table of Contents • timing and availability of import/export licenses; • political and economic instability; • higher credit risk and difficulties in accounts receivable collections; • increased tax exposure if our revenues in foreign countries are subject to taxation by more than one jurisdiction; • accepting customer purchase orders governed by foreign laws, which may differ significantly from U.S. laws and limit our ability to enforce our rights under such agreements and to collect damages, if awarded; • war on terrorism; • disruption in the international transportation industry; and • use of international distributors. As international sales become a larger portion of our total sales, these risks could create significant fluctuations in our results of operations. These risks could affect our ability to resell trade-in products to domestic distributors, who in turn often resell the trade-in products in international markets. Our inability to sell trade-in products might require us to offer lower trade-in values, which might impact our ability to sell new products to customers desiring to trade in older models and then purchase newer products. We intend to continue to expand our direct sales forces and our marketing support for these sales forces. We intend to continue to expand these areas, but if our sales forces are not effective, or if there is a sudden decrease in the markets where we have direct operations, we could be adversely affected. We May Fail to Adequately Protect or Enforce Our Intellectual Property Rights or Secure Rights to Third Party Intellectual Property, and Our Competitors Can Use Some of Our Previously Proprietary Technology. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We hold approximately 250 U.S. and 150 foreign patents for our various inventions and technologies. Additional patent applications have been filed with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and outside the U.S. and are currently pending. The patents that have been granted to us are for a definitive period of time and will expire. We have filed certain corresponding foreign patent applications and intend to file additional foreign and U.S. patent applications as appropriate. We cannot be assured as to: • the degree and range of protection any patents will afford against competitors with similar products; • if and when patents will be issued; • whether or not others will obtain patents claiming aspects similar to those covered by our patent applications; • whether or not competitors will use information contained in our expired patents; • whether or not others will design around our patents or obtain access to our know-how; or • the extent to which we will be successful in avoiding any patents granted to others. If certain patents issued to others are upheld or if certain patent applications filed by others issue and are upheld, we may be: • required to obtain licenses or redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement; • prevented from practicing the subject matter claimed in those patents; or • required to pay damages. 37 Table of Contents There is substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device industry. Litigation or administrative proceedings, including interference proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, related to intellectual property rights have been and in the future could be brought against us or be initiated by us. Adverse determinations in any patent litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, could require us to seek licenses from third parties and could, if licenses are not available, prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using certain of our products, some of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, the costs of any such proceedings may be substantial whether or not we are successful. Our success is also dependent upon the skills, knowledge and experience, none of which is patentable, of our scientific and technical personnel. To help protect our rights, we require all U.S. employees, consultants and advisors to enter into confidentiality agreements, which prohibit the disclosure of confidential information to anyone outside of our Company and require disclosure and assignment to us of their ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions. We cannot be assured that these agreements will provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure of the lawful development by others of such information. Reliance on Overseas Vendors for Some of the Components for Our Products Exposes Us to International Business Risks, Which Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business. Some of the components we use in our products are acquired from foreign manufacturers, particularly countries located in Europe and Asia. As a result, a significant portion of our purchases of components is subject to the risks of international business. The failure to obtain these components as a result of any of these risks can result in significant delivery delays of our products, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Intangibles and Goodwill We Currently Carry on Our Balance Sheet May Become Impaired. At September 27, 2009, we had approximately $89 million of goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet. These assets are subject to impairment if the cash flow that we generate from these assets specifically, or our business more broadly, are insufficient to justify the carrying value of the assets. Factors affecting our ability to generate cash flow from these assets include, but are not limited to, general market conditions, product acceptance, pricing and competition, distribution, costs of production and operations. In addition, volatility in our stock price and declines in our market capitalization could put pressure on the carrying value of our goodwill and other long-lived assets if the current period of economic uncertainty and related volatility in the financial markets persist for an extended period of time. Provisions in Our Charter Documents, Our Shareholder Rights Agreement and State Law May Make It Harder for Others To Obtain Control of the Company Even Though Some Stockholders Might Consider Such a Development to be Favorable. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of such shares without further vote or action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of Common Stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for third parties to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. In addition, our restated articles of organization provide for staggered terms for the members of the board of directors, which could delay or impede the removal of incumbent directors and could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving the Company more difficult. Our restated articles of organization, restated by-laws and applicable Massachusetts law also impose various procedural and other requirements that could delay or make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us more difficult. 38 Table of Contents We have also implemented a so-called poison pill by adopting our shareholders rights agreement, which was renewed in April 2008. This poison pill significantly increases the costs that would be incurred by an unwanted third party acquirer if such party owns or announces its intent to commence a tender offer for more than 15% of our outstanding Common Stock or otherwise “triggers” the poison pill by exceeding the applicable stock ownership threshold. The existence of this poison pill could delay, deter or prevent a takeover of the Company. All of these provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Common Stock, which could preclude our shareholders from recognizing a premium over the prevailing market price of our stock. We Have Only One Manufacturing Facility for Each of Our Major Products and Any Damage or Incapacitation of Any of the Facilities Could Impede Our Ability to Produce These Products. We have only one manufacturing facility for each of our major products. Damage to any such facility could render us unable to manufacture the relevant product or require us to reduce the output of products at the damaged facility. In addition, a severe weather event, other natural disaster or any other significant disruption affecting a facility occurring late in a quarter could make it difficult to meet product shipping targets. Any of these events could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, we have recently moved our manufacturing facilities relating to our AutoPulse and therapeutic temperature management products to a different facility. As a result of this move, the manufacturing facilities will need to be revalidated and inspected. Delay or failure in the validation and inspection process could have a materially adverse impact on these businesses, our financial condition and results of operations. We Hold Various Marketable Securities Investments Which Are Subject to Market Risk, Including Volatile Interest Rates and a Volatile Stock Market. Our management believes it has a conservative investment policy. It calls for investing in high quality investment grade securities with an average duration of 24 months or less. However, with the volatility of interest rates and fluctuations in credit quality of the underlying investments and issues of general market liquidity, there can be no assurance that the Company’s investments will not lose value. Management does not believe it has material exposure currently. Our Strategic Alliance With Welch Allyn May Not Be Successful Which May Adversely Impact Our Operating Results. We recently entered into a strategic alliance with Welch Allyn involving research and development, manufacturing, sales, service, and distribution related to Welch Allyn’s defibrillator and monitoring products. If we are delayed or fail to achieve our goals for this strategic alliance, our operating results could be unfavorably affected. For example, we have experienced a delay in receiving a 510(k) clearance for an AED product to be sold by Welch Allyn. In addition, a reduction in military expenditures in the monitoring and resuscitation markets would adversely affect business opportunities expected to result from the strategic alliance. The Company Has Acquired Substantially All the Assets of Alsius Corporation. If We are Not Successful in Fully Integrating this Business, Our Operating Results May be Affected. On May 4, 2009, we acquired substantially all the assets of the intravascular temperature management business of Alsius. Alsius developed and manufactured intravascular temperature management devices. We face many challenges in order for this acquisition to be successful, such as scaling up the new production facility, reducing the costs of the products, leveraging our sales force to sell the new products and continuing clinical efforts for acceptance of the products for additional applications. Additionally, selling temperature management products may expose us to new risk factors. If we are not successful in achieving these and other integration challenges, our operating results may be adversely affected. 39 Table of Contents We May Incur Significant Liability if it is Determined Under FDA Regulations That We Are Promoting Off-Label Use of Our Temperature Management Products. We have regulatory clearances to sell our temperature management products in Europe, Canada and in other countries outside the United States to treat cardiac arrest, but we do not have FDA clearance to sell these products in the United States to treat cardiac arrest. In the United States, the use of our temperature management products to treat cardiac arrest is and will be considered off-label use unless and until we receive regulatory clearance for use of our temperature management products to treat cardiac arrest patients. In the event that we are not able to obtain FDA clearance or approval, we may be at risk for liabilities and lost revenue as a result of off-label use. Under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other laws, we are prohibited from promoting our temperature management products for off-label uses. This means that we may not make claims about the safety or effectiveness of our temperature management products for the treatment of cardiac arrest patients, and means that we may not proactively discuss or provide information on the use of our temperature management products for the treatment of cardiac arrest patients, with very specific exceptions. Physicians, however, may lawfully choose to purchase our temperature management products and use them off-label. We do not track how physicians use our temperature management products after they are purchased, and cannot identify what percentage of our revenues from sales of our temperature management product is derived from off-label use. We are aware, however, that physicians in the United States may be using our temperature management products off-label to treat cardiac arrest due to the 2006 American Heart Association recommendation that cooling be used to treat cardiac arrest. A company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies, and even criminal sanctions. We do not believe any of our activities constitute promotion of off-label use. Should the FDA determine, however, that our activities constitute promotion of off-label use, the FDA could bring action to prevent us from distributing our temperature management products within the United States for the off-label use, could impose fines and penalties on us and our executives, and could prohibit us from participating in government healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 