Item 1A. Risk Factors. This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of factors both in and out of our control, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. You should carefully consider the risks described below. In addition, the risks described below are not the only ones facing us. We have only described the risks we consider to be the most material. However, there may be additional risks that are viewed by us as not material at the present time or are not presently known to us. Conditions could change in the future, or new information may come to our attention that could impact our assessment of these risks. If any of the events described below were to occur, our business, prospects, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. When we say below that something could or will have a material adverse effect on us, we mean that it could or will have one or more of these effects. In any such case, the price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in our company. Our operating results and cash flow are susceptible to fluctuations. We expect to continue to experience variability in our net sales, net income and cash flow on a quarterly basis. Factors that may contribute to this variability include: • fluctuations in prices of commodity grains; • adverse weather conditions during peak gardening seasons and seasonality; • shifts in demand for lawn and garden products; • shifts in demand for pet products; • changes in product mix, service levels and pricing by us and our competitors; • the effect of acquisitions, including the costs of acquisitions that are not completed; and • economic stability of retailers. These fluctuations could negatively impact our business and the market price of our common stock. Seeds and grains we use to produce bird feed and grass seed are commodity products subject to price volatility that has had, and could have, a negative impact on us. Our financial results depend on the cost of raw materials and our ability to pass along increases in these costs to our customers. In particular, our Pennington and Kaytee subsidiaries are exposed to fluctuations in market prices for commodity seeds and grains used to produce bird feed. Historically, market prices for commodity seeds and grains have fluctuated in response to a number of factors, including changes in United States government farm support programs, changes in international agricultural and trading policies and weather conditions during the growing and harvesting seasons. 13 Table of Contents To mitigate our exposure to changes in market prices, we enter into purchase contracts for grains, bird feed and grass seed to cover up to approximately one-third of the purchase requirements for a selling season. Since these contracts cover only a portion of our purchase requirements, as market prices for such products increase, our cost of production increases as well. In contrast, if market prices for such products decrease, we may end up purchasing grains and seeds pursuant to the purchase contracts at prices above market. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 and in fiscal 2007, prices for some of our key crops increased substantially, and these price increases continued throughout fiscal 2008. Our cost of goods for grain increased approximately $30 million in fiscal 2007 over fiscal 2006 and approximately $17 million in fiscal 2008 over fiscal 2007. Although we have been able to negotiate some price increases with our retailers, these price increases have not fully offset the rising costs. We can provide no assurance as to the timing or extent of our ability to implement additional price adjustments in the current context of rising costs or in the event of increased costs in the future. We also cannot predict to what extent price increases may negatively affect our sales volume. As retailers pass along price increases, consumers may shift to our lower margin pet bird feed, switch to competing products or reduce purchases of wild bird feed products. A decline in consumers’ discretionary spending or a change in consumer preferences could reduce our sales and harm our business. Our sales ultimately depend on consumer discretionary spending, which is influenced by factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, the availability of discretionary income and credit, weather, consumer confidence and unemployment levels. We may experience declines in sales during economic downturns. Any material decline in the amount of consumer discretionary spending could reduce our sales and harm our business. Since substantially all of our sales are in the United States, a declining U.S. economy may have a greater impact on us than on our competitors, some of which may have a larger percentage of international sales. These economic and market conditions, combined with continuing difficulties in the credit markets and the resulting pressures on liquidity, may also place a number of our key retail customers under financial stress, which would increase our credit risk and potential bad debt exposure. The success of our business also depends in part on our ability to identify and respond to evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences. For example, in the last two years, the demand for aquatics products has declined significantly. Our failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences, spending patterns and lawn and garden and pet care needs could adversely affect the demand for our products and our profitability. Inflation, economic uncertainty and adverse macro-economic conditions may harm our business. Our revenues and margins are dependent on various economic factors, including rates of inflation, rising energy costs, consumer attitudes toward discretionary spending, currency fluctuations, and other macro-economic factors which may impact levels of consumer spending. During the last year, we have been adversely impacted by rising input costs related to domestic inflation, particularly relating to grain and seed prices, fuel prices and the ingredients used in our garden fertilizer and chemicals, and many of our other input costs. The rising costs have made it difficult for us to increase prices to our retail customers at a pace that will enable us to return to historical margins. Our business has also been negatively impacted by the current downturn in the housing market and by declining consumer confidence, as well as other macro-economic factors. As a result, our gross margins and operating income have been adversely impacted. If we are unable to pass through rising input costs and raise the price of our products, or consumer confidence continues to weaken, we may continue to experience gross margin declines. Supply disruptions in pet birds and small animals may negatively impact our sales. Recently, the federal government and many state governments have increased restrictions on the importation of pet birds and the production of small animals. These restrictions have resulted in reduced demand for our pet 14 Table of Contents bird and small animal food and supplies. If these restrictions continue or become more severe, our future sales of these products would likely suffer, which would negatively impact our profitability. In addition, some countries have experienced outbreaks of bird flu. If the United States were to experience a significant outbreak of bird flu, this could reduce the demand for our pet and wild bird feed would likely decline, which would negatively impact our financial results. Our lawn and garden sales are highly seasonal and subject to adverse weather. Because our lawn and garden products are used primarily in the spring and summer, Garden Products’ business is seasonal. In fiscal 2008, approximately 63% of Garden Products’ net sales and 57% of our total net sales occurred during our second and third fiscal quarters. Substantially all of Garden Products’ operating income is generated in this period. Our working capital needs and our borrowings generally peak in our second fiscal quarter, because we are generating lower revenues while incurring expenses in preparation for the spring selling season. If cash on hand and borrowings under our credit facility are ever insufficient to meet our seasonal needs or if cash flow generated during the spring and summer is insufficient to repay our borrowings on a timely basis, this seasonality could have a material adverse effect on our business. Because demand for lawn and garden products is significantly influenced by weather, particularly weekend weather during the peak gardening season, our results of operations and cash flow could also be adversely affected by certain weather patterns such as unseasonably cool or warm temperatures, water shortages or floods. Rising energy prices could adversely affect our operating results. In the last few years, energy prices have increased dramatically, which has resulted in increased fuel costs for our businesses and raw materials costs for many of our branded products. Rising energy prices could adversely affect consumer spending and demand for our products and increase our operating costs, both of which would reduce our sales and operating income. If we experience adverse financial results in fiscal 2009, we may be required to amend the financial covenants of our credit agreement which could include an increase in the interest margin on loans or additional fees. This could materially impact our ability to finance our future operations, future acquisitions or capital needs. During the quarter ended March 31, 2007 and again during the quarter ended September 29, 2007, we agreed with our senior lenders to amend the minimum interest coverage ratio and the maximum leverage ratio covenants under our credit agreement effective for those quarters and subsequent periods. Starting with the fourth fiscal quarter of 2008 and continuing through the third fiscal quarter of fiscal 2009, we must maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio of 2.75 to 1.0 and a maximum leverage ratio of 4.75 to 1.0. Thereafter, the limits imposed by such ratios continue to become more restrictive over time. As of September 27, 2008, our interest coverage ratio was 3.92 to 1.0 and our leverage ratio was 3.88 to 1.0, and we were in compliance with all financial covenants. If we are unable to satisfy our existing financial covenants in the future, we could be required to amend our credit agreement on less favorable terms. Our inability to comply with the financial covenants could also materially and adversely affect our ability to finance future operations, future acquisitions or capital needs. The current uncertainties in the credit and debt markets may make it more difficult to amend our credit agreement on acceptable terms. If we are unable to meet our existing financial covenants in the future and unable to obtain future covenant relief or a forbearance from our senior lenders, we could be in default under our credit agreement, which could prevent us from borrowing under the credit facility and could cause all amounts borrowed to become due and payable immediately. In the event of default under our credit agreement, the amounts outstanding under our senior subordinated notes would also be subject to acceleration. 15 Table of Contents Deterioration in operating results given our current outstanding indebtedness and seasonal borrowing needs could adversely affect our financial results and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the terms of our indebtedness. We have, and we will continue to have, a significant amount of indebtedness. As of September 27, 2008, we had total indebtedness of approximately $523 million. This level of indebtedness and future borrowing needs could have material adverse consequences for our business, including: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the terms of our indebtedness; • require us to dedicate a large portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other business activities; • increase our vulnerability to adverse industry conditions, including adverse weather conditions or continued grain price increases; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or exploiting business opportunities; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds at reasonable rates, if at all. In addition, since a portion of our debt bears interest at variable rates, an increase in interest rates or interest rate margins as defined under the credit agreement will create higher debt service requirements, which would adversely affect our cash flow. While we have entered into interest rate swap agreements in the past that limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations, these agreements do not offer complete protection from changes in interest rates. The decline in our stock price could limit our ability to issue equity and increase dilution to our shareholders. From October through November 21, 2008, the price of our Class A stock and common stock has declined by more than 70%. This significant reduction in our stock price adversely affects our ability to raise equity capital in the public markets and increases the cost to us, as measured by dilution to our existing shareholders, of equity financing. In addition, the reduced stock price also increases the cost to us, in terms of dilution, of using our equity for employee compensation or for acquisitions of other businesses. We may not be able to borrow the additional capital to provide us with sufficient liquidity and capital resources necessary to meet our future financial obligations. We expect that our principal sources of funds will be cash generated from our operations and, if necessary, borrowings under our $350 million revolving credit facility. During the current economic downturn, some companies have experienced difficulties drawing on lines of credit, issuing debt and raising capital generally, which has had a material adverse effect on their liquidity. Based on our anticipated cash needs, availability under our revolving credit facility and the scheduled maturity of our debt, we believe that notwithstanding these adverse market conditions our sources of liquidity are adequate to meet our working capital, capital spending and other cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, we cannot assure you that these sources will continue to provide us with sufficient liquidity and capital resources required to meet our future financial obligations, or to provide funds for our working capital, capital expenditures and other needs. We may require additional equity or debt financing to meet our working capital requirements or to fund our capital expenditures. We may not be able to obtain financing on terms satisfactory to us, or at all. 16 Table of Contents We depend on a few customers for a significant portion of our business. Wal*Mart, our largest customer, accounted for approximately 17% of our net sales in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006. In addition, Home Depot, Lowe’s, PETsMART and PETCO are also significant customers although each accounted for less than 10% of our net sales and, together with Wal*Mart, accounted for approximately 41% of our net sales in fiscal 2008 and 2007 and 40% in fiscal 2006. The market share of each of these key retailers has increased and may continue to increase in future years. The loss of, or significant adverse change in, our relationship with any of these key retailers could cause our net sales, income from operations and cash flow to decline. The loss of, or reduction in, orders from any significant customer, losses arising from customer disputes regarding shipments, fees, merchandise condition or related matters, or our inability to collect accounts receivable from any major customer could reduce our income from operations and cash flow. We may be adversely affected by trends in the retail industry. With the growing trend towards retail trade consolidation, we are increasingly dependent upon key retailers whose bargaining strength is growing. Our business may be negatively affected by changes in the policies of our retailers, such as inventory destocking, limitations on access to shelf space, price demands and other conditions. In addition, as a result of the desire of retailers to more closely manage inventory levels, there is a growing trend among retailers to make purchases on a “just-in-time” basis. This requires us to shorten our lead time for production in certain cases and to more closely anticipate demand, which could in the future require the carrying of additional inventories and an increase in our working capital and related financing requirements. This shift to “just-in-time” can also cause retailers to delay purchase orders, which can cause a shift in sales from quarter to quarter decisions to move in or out of a market category by leading retailers can also have a significant impact on our business. A significant deterioration in the financial condition of one of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability and cash flow. We continually monitor and evaluate the credit status of our customers and attempt to adjust sales terms as appropriate. Despite these efforts, a bankruptcy filing by a key customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition in the future. We cannot be certain that our product innovations and marketing successes will continue. We believe that our past performance has been based on, and our future success will depend upon, in part, our ability to continue to improve our existing products through product innovation and to develop, market and produce new products. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in the introduction, marketing and production of any new products or product innovations, or that we will develop and introduce in a timely manner innovations to our existing products which satisfy customer needs or achieve market acceptance. Our failure to develop new products and introduce them successfully and in a timely manner could harm our ability to grow our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Competition in our industries may hinder our ability to execute our business strategy, increase our profitability or maintain relationships with existing customers. We operate in highly competitive industries, which have experienced increased consolidation in recent years. We compete against numerous other companies, some of which are more established in their industries and have substantially greater revenue or resources than we do. Our products compete against national and regional products and private label products produced by various suppliers. Our largest competitors in pet supplies products are Spectrum Brands and Hartz Mountain, and our largest competitors in lawn and garden products are Scotts and Spectrum Brands. 17 Table of Contents To compete effectively, among other things, we must: • develop and grow brands with leading market positions; • maintain our relationships with key retailers; • continually develop innovative new products that appeal to consumers; • maintain strict quality standards; • deliver products on a reliable basis at competitive prices; and • effectively integrate acquired companies. Competition could lead to lower sales volumes, price reductions, reduced profits or losses, or loss of market share. Our inability to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our acquisition strategy involves a number of risks. We have completed numerous acquisitions and intend to grow through the acquisition of additional companies. We are regularly engaged in acquisition discussions with a number of companies and anticipate that one or more potential acquisition opportunities, including those that would be material, may become available in the near future. If and when appropriate acquisition opportunities become available, we intend to pursue them actively. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including: • failure of the acquired business to achieve expected results; • diversion of management’s attention; • failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business; • additional financing, if necessary and available, which could increase leverage and costs, dilute equity, or both; • the potential negative effect on our financial statements from the increase in goodwill and other intangibles; • the high cost and expenses of identifying, negotiating and completing acquisitions; and • risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have faced, and expect to continue to face, intense competition for acquisition candidates, which may limit the number of opportunities and may lead to higher acquisition prices. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, acquire or manage profitably additional businesses or to integrate successfully any acquired businesses into our existing business without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial difficulties. In future acquisitions, we also could incur additional indebtedness or pay consideration in excess of fair value, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends upon our retaining key personnel. Our future performance is substantially dependent upon the continued services of William E. Brown, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and our other senior officers. The loss of the services of any of these persons could have a material adverse effect upon us. In addition, our future performance depends on our ability to attract and retain skilled employees. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing personnel or attract additional qualified employees in the future. 18 Table of Contents We are implementing a new enterprise resource planning information technology system. In fiscal 2005, we began incurring costs associated with designing and implementing SAP, a new company-wide enterprise resource planning software system with the objective of gradually migrating to the new system. Upon completion, this new system will replace our numerous existing accounting and financial reporting systems, most of which were obtained in connection with business acquisitions. From fiscal 2005 through fiscal 2008, we have invested approximately $38 million in this initiative and anticipate investing up to an additional $5 million in fiscal 2009 for planned implementations. Capital expenditures for our new enterprise resource planning software system for fiscal 2010 and beyond will depend upon the pace of conversion for those remaining legacy systems. If we do not complete the implementation of the project timely and successfully, we may experience, among other things, additional costs associated with completing this project and delay our ability to improve existing operations, support future growth and enable us to take advantage of new applications and technologies. All of this may also result in a distraction of management’s time, diverting their attention from our existing operations and strategy. Some of the products that we manufacture and distribute require governmental permits and also subject us to potential environmental liabilities. Some of the products that we manufacture and distribute are subject to regulation by federal, state and local authorities. Such regulations are often complex and are subject to change. Environmental regulations may affect us by restricting the manufacture or use of our products or regulating their disposal. Regulatory or legislative changes may cause future increases in our operating costs or otherwise affect operations. Although we believe we are and have been in substantial compliance with such regulations and have internal guidelines on the handling and disposal of our products, there is no assurance that in the future we may not be adversely affected by such regulations or incur increased operating costs in complying with such regulations. However, neither compliance with regulatory requirements nor with our environmental procedures can ensure that we will not be subject to claims for personal injury, property damages or governmental enforcement. In addition, while we do not anticipate having to make, and historically have not had to make, significant capital expenditures to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, due to the nature of our operations and the frequently changing nature of environmental compliance standards and technology, we cannot predict with any certainty that future material capital expenditures will not be required. In addition to operational standards, environmental laws also impose obligations on various entities to clean up contaminated properties or to pay for the cost of such remediation, often upon parties that did not actually cause the contamination. Accordingly, we may become liable, either contractually or by operation of law, for remediation costs even if the contaminated property is not presently owned or operated by us, or if the contamination was caused by third parties during or prior to our ownership or operation of the property. With our extensive acquisition history, we have acquired a number of manufacturing and distribution facilities. Given the nature of the past operations conducted by us and others at these properties, there can be no assurance that all potential instances of soil or groundwater contamination have been identified, even for those properties where an environmental site assessment has been conducted. While we are not subject to any existing remediation obligations, future events, such as changes in existing laws or policies or their enforcement, or the discovery of currently unknown contamination, may give rise to future remediation liabilities that may be material. Our business is dependent upon our ability to continue to source products from China. We outsource a significant amount of our manufacturing requirements to third party manufacturers located in China. This international sourcing subjects us to the risks of doing business abroad. These risks include: the impact on sourcing or manufacturing as a result of public health and contamination risks in China; social and political disturbances and instability; export duties, import controls, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers; shipping and transportation problems; and fluctuations in currency values. Because we rely on Chinese third-party manufacturers for a substantial portion of our product needs, any disruption in our relationships with these manufacturers could adversely affect our operations. 19 Table of Contents The products that we manufacture could expose us to product liability claims. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks in the manufacture and distribution of certain of our products. Although we generally seek to insure against such risks, there can be no assurance that such coverage is adequate or that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms. A successful product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on us and could prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially reasonable terms. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never declared nor paid any cash dividends on our common stock or Class A common stock and currently do not intend to do so. Provisions of our credit facility and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes restrict our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock. Any future determination to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors, subject to limitations under applicable law and contractual restrictions, and will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. We may issue additional shares of our common stock or Class A common stock that could dilute the value and market price of your common stock. We may decide or be required to issue, including upon the exercise of any outstanding stock options, or in connection with any acquisition made by us, additional shares of our common stock or Class A common stock that could dilute the value of your common stock or Class A common stock and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock or Class A common stock. Our Chairman, through his holdings of our Class B common stock, could greatly influence control of the Company, which may discourage potential acquisitions of our business and could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our Class A common stock. Holders of our Class B common stock are entitled to the lesser of ten votes per share or 49% of the total votes cast, and each share of Class B common stock is convertible at any time into one share of our common stock. Holders of our common stock are entitled to one vote for each share owned. Holders of our Class A common stock and Series B preferred stock have no voting rights, except as required by Delaware law. As of November 1, 2008, William E. Brown, our Chairman, had beneficial ownership of 1,600,459 shares of our Class B common stock (out of a total of 1,652,262 outstanding shares), 1,393,063 shares of our Class A common stock and 3,338,884 shares of our common stock and thereby controlled approximately 46% of the voting power of our capital stock. Accordingly, except to the extent that a class vote of the common stock is required by applicable law, he can effectively control all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our directors, and can exert substantial control over our management and policies. The disproportionate voting rights of our common stock and Class B common stock and Mr. Brown’s substantial holdings of Class B common stock could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and Class A common stock. Also, such disproportionate voting rights and Mr. Brown’s controlling interest may make us a less attractive target for a takeover than we otherwise might be, or render more difficult or discourage a merger proposal, tender offer or proxy contest, even if such actions were favored by our other stockholders, which could thereby deprive holders of common stock or Class A common stock of an opportunity to sell their shares for a “take-over” premium. We have authorized the issuance of shares of common stock, Class A common stock and preferred stock, which may discourage potential acquisitions of our business and could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our Class A common stock. Pursuant to our Fourth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the board of directors is authorized to issue up to 80,000,000 shares of our common stock, 100,000,000 shares of our nonvoting Class A common stock and up to 1,000,000 additional shares of preferred stock without seeking the approval or consent of our stockholders, unless required by the NASDAQ Global Market. Although the issuance of the nonvoting 20 Table of Contents Class A common stock would not dilute the voting rights of the existing stockholders, it could have a dilutive effect on the economic interest of currently outstanding shares of common stock and Class B common stock similar to the dilutive effect of subsequent issuances of ordinary common stock. The issuance of the preferred stock could, depending on the rights and privileges designated by the board with respect to the issuance of any particular series, have a dilutive effect on the voting interests of the common stock and Class B common stock and the economic interests of our common stock, Class A common stock and Class B common stock. In addition, the disproportionate voting rights of our common stock, preferred stock, Class B common stock and Class A common stock, and the ability of the board to issue the Class A common stock and the preferred stock to persons friendly to current management, may make us a less attractive target for a takeover than we otherwise might be or render more difficult or discourage a merger proposal, tender offer or proxy contest, even if such actions were favored by our common stockholders, which could thereby deprive holders of common stock of an opportunity to sell their shares for a “take-over” premium. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 