ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. This report contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, our forward-looking statements. Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates" and other similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "should," "would" and "could" are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Readers of this report should not rely solely on the forward-looking statements and should consider all uncertainties and risks throughout this report. The statements are representative only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement. All forward-looking statements, by their nature, are subject to risks and uncertainties. Our actual future results may differ materially from those set forth in our forward-looking statements. We face risks that are inherent in the businesses and the market places in which we operate. While management believes these forward-looking statements are accurate and reasonable, uncertainties, risks and factors, including those described below, could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause the actual outcome and results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements include, but are not necessarily limited to the following: (i) generally adverse economic and industry conditions, including a decline in demand for our products; (ii) the ability to maintain sufficient liquidity to realize current operating plans; (iii) the effect of receiving a going concern statement in our auditor's report on our 2009 audited financial 13 statements; (iv) adverse economic conditions could cause further reevaluation of the fair value of our reporting segments and the write down of long-lived assets; (v) the cost and availability of raw materials; (vi) changes in our competitive environment; (vii) economic, political, or regulatory changes in the countries in which we operate; (viii) the ability to successfully integrate the operations of acquired businesses; (ix) the ability to attract, train and retain effective employees and management; (x) the ability to develop innovative products to maintain customer relationships; (xi) the impact of environmental issues, laws, and regulations; (xii) our ability to finance and achieve the expected benefits of our manufacturing relocation plan or other restructuring plans; (xiii) volatility of financial and credit markets which would affect our access to capital; (xiv) increased difficulty or expense in accessing capital because of our delisting of our common stock from the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"); (xv) exposure to foreign exchange (gains) and losses; (xvi) need to reduce costs to offset downward price trends; (xvii) potential limitation on use of net operating losses to offset possible future taxable income; (xviii) dilution as a result of the issuance of a warrant to K Financing; and (xix) exercise of the warrant by K Financing may result in the existence of a controlling shareholder. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and also could cause actual results to differ materially from those included, contemplated or implied by the forward-looking statements made in this report, and the reader should not consider the above list of factors to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties. Generally adverse economic and industry conditions, including a decline in demand for our products, could reduce our profitability. Our products are used in the electronics industry, which is a highly cyclical industry. The demand for capacitors tends to reflect the demand for products in the electronics market. Customers' requirements for our capacitors fluctuate as a result of changes in general economic activity and other factors that affect the demand for their products. During periods of increasing demand for their products, they typically seek to increase their inventory of our products to avoid production bottlenecks. When demand for their products peaks and begins to decline, they may rapidly decrease orders for our products while they use up accumulated inventory. Business cycles vary somewhat in different geographical regions, such as Asia, and within customer industries. We are also vulnerable to general economic events beyond our control and our sales and profits may suffer in periods of weak demand. The continued economic downturn could impact our ability to realize current operating plans and could materially adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to continue to operate. Our liquidity and ability to realize our current operating plans will be dependent on an improving economic environment and our ability to provide financing for working capital. While our operating plans provide for cash generated from current operations to be sufficient to cover our operating requirements going forward, many factors, including reduced demand for our products, currency exchange rate fluctuations, increased raw material costs, and other adverse market conditions could cause a shortfall in net cash generated from operations. To provide financial flexibility, we may enter into negotiations to secure additional financing or sell non-core assets. However, there can be no assurances that we will be successful in either of these strategic initiatives. Our ability to realize current operating plans is also dependent upon meeting our payment obligations and complying with any applicable financial covenants under our debt agreements. If cash generated from operating, investing and financing activities is insufficient to pay for operating requirements and to cover payment obligations under debt instruments, planned operating and capital expenditures may need to be reduced, or the debt instruments may need to be amended or refinanced. There can be no assurances that we would be able to secure such amendments or refinancing on satisfactory terms. Also, adverse market conditions could cause us to be at risk of violating one or more financial covenants in our debt instruments. In such event, if we were unable to secure amendments to 14 the debt instrument or a waiver of the covenant, we could be required to redeem the debt instrument or could default under the instrument, causing the balance of the debt to be accelerated. There can be no assurances that we could secure such an amendment or waiver, or could redeem the instrument or otherwise repay the debt on an accelerated basis. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent public accounting firm has issued an opinion on our consolidated financial statements that states that the consolidated financial statements were prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern. However, in its report dated June 30, 2009 regarding our consolidated financial statements, our independent public accounting firm expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern as a result of the decline in net sales, profitability and liquidity during the year ended March 31, 2009, our expectation that we will achieve the required level of profitability under an "EBITDA" covenant by only a narrow margin and that, given the degree of uncertainty with respect to the near-term outlook for the global economy and the possible effects on the Company's operations, there is significant uncertainty as to whether the Company's forecasts will be achieved. Our plans concerning these matters are discussed in Note 2, "Debt, Liquidity and Capital Resources" to our consolidated financial statements. Adverse economic conditions could cause further reevaluation and the write down of long-lived assets. For the impairment of long-lived assets, we follow the guidance as prescribed in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets" ("SFAS No. 144"). In accordance with SFAS No. 144, long-lived assets and intangible assets subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. In the event that the test shows that the carrying value of certain long-lived assets are impaired, we would be required to take an impairment charge to earnings under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. However, such a charge would have no direct effect on our cash. Such a charge could cause us to be at risk for violating one or more financial covenants in our debt instruments. If we were unable to secure amendments to the debt instrument or a waiver of the covenant, we could be required to redeem the debt instrument or we could default under the instrument, causing the balance of the debt to be accelerated. There can be no assurances that we could secure such an amendment or waiver, or could redeem the instrument or otherwise repay the debt on an accelerated basis. An increase in the cost or decrease in availability of our principal raw materials could adversely affect profitability. The principal raw materials used in the manufacture of our products are tantalum powder, palladium and silver. These materials are considered commodities and are subject to price volatility. Due to our recent financial performance, we no longer purchase tantalum powder under long-term contracts. Instead, we forecast our tantalum needs for the short-term (up to two months) and make purchases based upon those forecasts. While the financial impact of these decisions are short-term in nature given that we are not currently party to any long-term supply agreements, they could impact our financial performance from period to period given that we do not hedge any of our raw material exposure and we may be unable to pass on to a significant number of our customers any fluctuations in our raw material costs. Additionally, any delays in obtaining raw materials for our products could hinder our ability to manufacture our products, negatively impacting our competitive position and our relationships with our customers. Presently, a limited number of suppliers process tantalum ore into capacitor-grade tantalum powder. We believe the tantalum our operations require is generally available in sufficient quantities to meet our requirements and that there are a sufficient number of tantalum processors relative to foreseeable demand. However, the limited number of tantalum powder suppliers could lead to 15 increases in tantalum prices that we may not be able to pass on to our customers. The average price of tantalum raw material at March 31, 2009 was over $194 per pound. Palladium is presently found primarily in South Africa and Russia. Although the amount of palladium that we require has generally been available in sufficient quantities, the limited number of palladium suppliers could lead to significant price fluctuations. For instance, in fiscal year 2009 the price of palladium fluctuated between $475 and $164 per troy ounce. Price increases and our inability to pass such increases on to our customers could have an adverse effect on profitability. Silver has generally been available in sufficient quantities, and we believe there are a sufficient number of suppliers from which we can purchase our silver requirements. An increase in the price of silver that we are unable to pass on to our customers, however, could have an adverse affect on our profitability. We face intense competition. The capacitor business is highly competitive worldwide, with low transportation costs and few import barriers. Competition is based on factors such as product quality and reliability, availability, customer service, timely delivery and price. The industry has become increasingly consolidated and globalized in recent years, and our primary U.S. and non-U.S. competitors, some of which are larger than us, have significant financial resources. The greater financial resources of such competitors may enable them to commit larger amounts of capital in response to changing market conditions. Some competitors may also have the ability to use profits from other operations to subsidize losses sustained in their businesses with which we compete. Certain competitors may also develop product or service innovations that could put us at a disadvantage. We manufacture many capacitors in Europe, Mexico and Asia and future political or regulatory changes in any of these regions could adversely affect our profitability. Our international operations are subject to a number of special risks, in addition to the same risks as our domestic business. These risks include currency exchange rate fluctuations, differing protections of intellectual property, trade barriers, labor unrest, exchange controls, regional economic uncertainty, differing (and possibly more stringent) labor regulation, risk of governmental expropriation, domestic and foreign customs and tariffs, current and changing regulatory regimes, differences in the availability and terms of financing, political instability and potential increases in taxes. These factors could impact our production capability or adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We may not be able to successfully integrate acquisitions with our operations. Because the markets and industries in which we operate are highly competitive, and due to the inherent uncertainties associated with the integration of acquired companies, we may not be able to integrate acquisitions without encountering difficulties which may include the loss of key employees and customers, the disruption of the ongoing businesses and possible inconsistencies in standards, controls and procedures. In addition, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost synergies from our acquisitions and we may incur higher than anticipated integration (including restructuring costs) associated with them. Finally, our liquidity situation could delay or stop our restructuring plans related to the integration of the acquisitions until liquidity is adequate to resume these activities. Losing the services of our executive officers or our other highly qualified and experienced employees or our inability to continue to attract and retain additional qualified personnel could harm our business. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and certain other employees, many of whom have many years of experience with us and would be extremely difficult to replace. We must also attract and retain experienced and highly skilled engineering, sales and marketing and managerial personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense in our industry, and we may not be successful in hiring and retaining these people. If we lost the services of our executive officers or our other highly qualified and experienced employees or cannot attract and retain 16 other qualified personnel, our business could suffer through less effective management due to loss of accumulated knowledge of our business or through less successful products due to a reduced ability to design, manufacture and market our products. We must continue to develop innovative products to maintain relationships with our customers and to offset potential price erosion in older products. While most of the fundamental technologies used in the passive components industry have been available for a long time, the market is nonetheless typified by rapid changes in product designs and technological advances allowing for better performance, smaller size and/or lower cost. New applications are frequently found for existing technologies, and new technologies occasionally replace existing technologies for some applications or open up new business opportunities in other areas of application. We believe that successful innovation is critical for maintaining profitability in the face of potential erosion of selling prices for existing products and to ensure the flow of new products and robust manufacturing processes that will keep us at the forefront of our customers' product designs. Non-customized commodity products are especially vulnerable to price pressure, but customized products have also experienced price pressure in recent years. Developing and marketing new products requires start-up costs that may not be recouped if these products or production techniques are not successful. There are numerous risks inherent in product development, including the risks that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to develop and market new products and applications in a timely fashion to satisfy customer demands. If this occurs, we could lose customers and experience adverse effects on our results of operations. Environmental laws and regulations could limit our ability to operate as we are currently and could result in additional costs. We are subject to a variety of U.S. federal, state and local, as well as foreign, environmental laws and regulations relating, among other things, to wastewater discharge, air emissions, handling of hazardous materials, disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, and remediation of soil and groundwater contamination. We use a number of chemicals or similar substances, and generate wastes, that are considered hazardous. We require environmental permits to conduct many of our operations. Violations of environmental laws and regulations could result in substantial fines, penalties, and other sanctions. Changes in environmental laws or regulations (or in their enforcement) affecting or limiting, for example, our chemical uses, certain of our manufacturing processes, or our disposal practices, could restrict our ability to operate as we are currently operating or impose additional costs. In addition, we may experience releases of certain chemicals or discover existing contamination, which could cause us to incur material cleanup costs or other damages. We may not achieve the expected benefits of our manufacturing relocation plan and cost reduction plans we have made or may adopt in the future. We have experienced significant growth through acquisitions. In fiscal year 2009, we incurred manufacturing relocation costs to integrate these newly acquired businesses. In July 2008, we announced a rationalization plan designed to reduce costs in the corporate staff and manufacturing support functions. Approximately 640 employees were affected as a result of this action and the salaried workforce affected represented approximately 12% of our salaried workforce. We expect that the rationalization plan will reduce support costs by approximately $36.0 million on an annual basis. In December 2008, we announced a cost savings plan to eliminate approximately 1,500 manufacturing jobs. We expect that this plan will reduce costs by approximately $16.0 million on an annual basis. To the extent we are unsuccessful in realizing the goals of any or all of these initiatives, we will not be able to achieve our anticipated operating results. To the extent we embark on any additional restructuring or repositioning programs, such initiatives may not achieve expected benefits. The inability to achieve our forecasted operating results could have an adverse affect on our liquidity. 17 Volatility of financial and credit markets could affect our access to capital. The continued uncertainty in the global financial and credit markets could impact our ability to implement new financial arrangements or to modify our existing financial arrangements. While we have been successful in restructuring our financial indebtedness with UniCredit, there can be no assurance that future modifications, if needed, could be secured. An inability to obtain new financing or to further modify existing financing would put additional pressure on our ability to generate sufficient cash from operations to satisfy our liquidity requirements. Our ability to generate adequate liquidity will depend on our ability to execute the operating plans and to manage costs in light of developing economic conditions. An unanticipated decrease in sales, or other factors that would cause the actual outcome of our plans to differ from expectations, could create a shortfall in cash available to fund our liquidity needs. Being unable to access new capital or restructure existing debt, experiencing a shortfall in cash from operations to fund our liquidity needs and the failure to implement an initiative to offset the shortfall in cash, such as, for example, a sale of non-core assets, would likely have a material adverse effect on our business. We are currently listed on the OTC Bulletin Board which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. On December 31, 2008, we received notice from the NYSE that our common stock would be suspended from trading on the NYSE due to non-compliance with the continued listing standard related to average market capitalization. On January 9, 2009, our stock was suspended from trading on the NYSE and began trading on the Over-The-Counter market's Pink Sheets. On February 2, 2009, our stock began trading on the OTC Bulletin Board. Our listings on the Pink Sheets and OTC Bulletin Board comply with the covenants under our debt agreements. However, our listing on the OTC Bulletin Board could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations by, among other things, limiting: •the liquidity of our common stock; •the market price of our common stock; •the number of institutional and other investors that will consider investing in our common stock; •the availability of information concerning the trading prices and volume of our common stock; •the number of broker-dealers willing to execute trades in shares of our common stock; and •our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of operations. Our inability to purchase forward exchange contracts exposes us to foreign exchange (gains) and losses. Given our international operations and sales, we are exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates. Of these, the most significant are currently the Euro and the Mexican peso. A portion of our sales to our customers and operating costs in Europe are denominated in Euro creating an exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. Also, a portion of our costs in our Mexican operations are denominated in Mexican pesos, creating an exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. Additionally, certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries make sales denominated in U.S. dollars which expose them to foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Historically, in order to minimize our exposure, we periodically entered into forward foreign exchange contracts in which the future cash flows in the Euro or Mexican peso were hedged against the U.S. dollar. Due to our liquidity situation, we no longer have the capability to enter into forward exchange contracts and therefore are exposed to foreign currency gains and losses. We must consistently reduce the total costs of our products to combat the impact of downward price trends. Our industry is intensely competitive and prices for existing products tend to decrease steadily over their life cycle. There is substantial and continuing pressure from customers to reduce the total cost of 18 using our parts. To remain competitive, we must achieve continuous cost reductions through process and product improvements. We must also be in a position to minimize our customers' shipping and inventory financing costs and to meet their other goals for rationalization of supply and production. Our growth and the profit margins of our products will suffer if our competitors are more successful in reducing the total cost to customers of their products than we are. We must also continue to introduce new products that offer performance advantages over our existing products and can thereby achieve premium prices, offsetting the price declines in our more mature products. Our use of net operating loss carryforwards could be limited by ownership changes. In addition to the general limitations on the carryback and carryforward of net operating losses under Section 172 of the Code, Section 382 of the Code imposes further limitations on the utilization of net operating losses by a corporation following various types of ownership changes which result in more than a 50 percentage point change in ownership of a corporation within a three year period. Therefore, the future utilization of our net operating losses may be subject to limitation for regular federal income tax purposes. The issuance of the Closing Warrant may be deemed an "ownership change" for purposes of Section 382 of the Code. If such an ownership change is deemed to occur, the amount of our taxable income that can be offset by our net operating loss carryovers in taxable years after the ownership change will be limited. We believe it is more likely than not that the issuance of the Closing Warrant will not be deemed an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 of the Code although the matter is not free from doubt. In addition, the exercise of the Closing Warrant may give rise to an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 of the Code. We cannot be certain that the limitations of Section 382 of the Code will not limit or deny in full our future utilization of available net operating losses, if any. Such limitation or denial could require us to pay substantial additional federal and state taxes and interest. Moreover, we cannot be certain that future ownership changes will not limit or deny in full our future utilization of all of the available net operating losses. If we cannot utilize available net operating losses, if any, we may be required to pay substantial additional federal and state taxes and interest. Such tax and interest liabilities may adversely affect our liquidity and financial position. Holders of our common stock are subject to the risk of dilution as a result of the issuance of a warrant to K Financing. As part of the consideration for entering into the Platinum Credit Facility, we granted K Financing a warrant to purchase up to 80,544,685 shares of our common stock at a maximum aggregate purchase price of $40.3 million, subject to certain adjustments, representing up to 49.9% of our outstanding common stock on a post-Closing warrant basis. The warrant is exercisable at any time prior to the tenth anniversary of the date of issuance. The exercise of the warrant could result in dilution to the holders of our common stock. In addition to the potential dilutive effective of a warrant, there is the potential that a large number of the shares may be traded in the public market at any time, which could place significant downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. The issuance and sale of additional shares in the public market could also impair our ability to raise capital by selling equity securities. The exercise of the warrant by K Financing may result in the existence of a controlling shareholder, and consequently may limit the ability of other shareholders to influence the direction and decisions of the Company. As previously indicated, K Financing received a warrant to purchase up to 80,544,685 shares of our common stock at a maximum aggregate purchase price of $40.3 million. Upon exercise of the warrant, K Financing may own up to 49.9% of our outstanding common stock on a post-Closing warrant basis. 19 In addition, we entered into an Investor Rights Agreement which provides K Financing with preemptive rights to purchase shares of our common stock which will enable K Financing to maintain its percentage ownership. Under the Investor Rights Agreement, in connection with any proposed issuance of securities, we would be required to offer to sell to K Financing a pro rata portion of such securities equal to the percentage determined by dividing the number of shares of common stock held by K Financing plus the number of shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrant, by the total number of shares of common stock then outstanding on a fully diluted basis. As a result, K Financing may be able to control or significantly influence substantially all matters requiring approval by the shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of any significant transactions. K Financing may also have interests that differ from those of other shareholders and may vote in a way with which other shareholders disagree or perceive as adverse to their interests. In addition, the concentration of voting power held by K Financing could have the effect of preventing, discouraging or deferring a change in control of the Company, which could depress the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 20 