ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Safe Harbor Statement From time to time, information provided by the Company, including but not limited to statements in this report or other statements made by or on behalf of the Company, may contain "forward-looking" information within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. The cautionary statements set forth herein under the heading Safe Harbor Statement identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company intends that these forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbor created by that provision. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties beyond the Company's control. The inclusion of this forward-looking information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company that the future events, plans, or expectations contemplated by the Company will be achieved. Furthermore, past performance in operations and share price is not necessarily predictive of future performance. Finally, the Company cannot assume responsibility for certain information that is based upon market estimates. The Company wishes to caution readers that the following important factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, KEMET's actual results and could cause KEMET's actual consolidated results for the first quarter of fiscal year 2009 and beyond to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, the Company whether contained herein, in other documents subsequently filed by the Company with the SEC, or in oral statements: Cyclical changes in the electronics industry could result in significant fluctuations in demand for the Company's products, reducing the Company's profitability. The Company's products are used in the electronics industry, which is a highly cyclical industry. The demand for capacitors tends to reflect the demand for products in the electronics market. Customers' requirements for the Company's capacitors fluctuate as a result of changes in general economic activity and other factors that affect the demand for their products. During periods of increasing demand for their products, they typically seek to increase their inventory of the Company's products to avoid production bottlenecks. When demand for their products peaks and begins to decline, they may rapidly decrease orders for the Company's products while they use up accumulated inventory. Business cycles vary somewhat in different geographical regions, such as Asia, and within customer industries. The Company is also vulnerable to general economic events beyond the Company's control and the Company's sales and profits may suffer in periods of weak demand. 11 The Company must consistently reduce the total costs products to combat the impact of downward price trends. The Company's industry is intensely competitive and prices for existing products tend to decrease steadily over their life cycle. There is substantial and continuing pressure from customers to reduce the total cost of using the Company's parts. To remain competitive, the Company must achieve continuous cost reductions through process and product improvements. The Company must also be in a position to minimize its customers' shipping and inventory financing costs and to meet their other goals for rationalization of supply and production. The Company's growth and the profit margins of the Company's products will suffer if the Company's competitors are more successful in reducing the total cost to customers of their products than the Company. The Company must also continue to introduce new products that offer performance advantages over the Company's existing products and can thereby achieve premium prices, offsetting the price declines in the Company's older products. An increase in the cost of the Company's principal raw materials could adversely affect profitability. The principal raw materials used in the manufacture of the Company's products are tantalum powder, palladium and silver. These materials are considered commodities and are subject to price volatility. Tantalum powder is primarily purchased under annual contracts, while palladium and silver are primarily purchased on the spot and forward markets, depending on market conditions. For example, if the Company believes that prices are likely to rise, the Company may purchase a significant amount of the Company's annual requirements on a forward delivery basis. While the financial impact of these decisions are short-term in nature given that the Company is not currently party to any long-term supply agreements, they could impact the Company's financial performance from period to period given that the Company does not hedge any of the Company's raw material exposure and the Company is not likely to be able to pass on to the Company's customers any fluctuations in the Company's raw material costs. Additionally, any delays in obtaining raw materials for the Company's products could hinder the Company's ability to manufacture the Company's products, negatively impacting the Company's competitive position and the Company's relationships with the Company's customers. Presently three suppliers process tantalum ore into capacitor-grade tantalum powder. The Company's management believes the tantalum its operations require is generally available in sufficient quantities to meet the Company's requirements and that there are a sufficient number of tantalum processors relative to foreseeable demand. However, the limited number of tantalum powder suppliers could lead to increases in tantalum prices that the Company may not be able to pass on to its customers. In fiscal year 2001, for instance, the increase in demand for tantalum capacitors led to tight supplies of tantalum raw material and some tantalum powders resulting in prices increasing from under $50 per pound early in calendar 2000 to over $300 per pound in calendar 2001. The average price of tantalum raw material at March 31, 2008 was over $175 per pound. Palladium is presently found primarily in South Africa and Russia. Although the palladium the Company requires has generally been available in sufficient quantities, the limited number of palladium suppliers could lead to significant price fluctuations. For instance, in fiscal year 2001 the price of palladium fluctuated between $554 and $1,090 per troy ounce. Such price increases and the Company's inability to pass such increases on to the Company's customers could have an adverse effect on profitability. Silver has generally been available in sufficient quantities, and the Company believes there are a sufficient number of suppliers from which the Company can purchase its silver requirements. An increase in the price of silver that the Company is unable to pass on to the Company's customers, however, could have an adverse affect on the Company's profitability. 12 The Company faces intense competition. The capacitor business is highly competitive worldwide, with low transportation costs and few import barriers. Competition is based on factors such as product quality and reliability, availability, customer service, timely delivery and price. The industry has become increasingly consolidated and globalized in recent years, and the Company's primary U.S. and non-U.S. competitors, some of which are larger than the Company, have significant financial resources. The greater financial resources of such competitors may enable them to commit larger amounts of capital in response to changing market conditions. Some competitors may also have the ability to use profits from other operations to subsidize losses sustained in their businesses with which the Company competes. Certain competitors may also develop product or service innovations that could put us at a disadvantage. The Company manufactures many capacitors in Europe, Mexico and Asia and future political or regulatory changes in any of these countries could adversely affect the Company's profitability. Although the Company has not experienced significant problems conducting operations in Europe, Mexico or Asia, the Company's international operations are subject to a number of special risks, in addition to the same risks as its domestic business, including currency exchange rate fluctuations, differing protections of intellectual property, trade barriers, labor unrest, exchange controls, regional economic uncertainty, differing (and possibly more stringent) labor regulation, risk of governmental expropriation, domestic and foreign customs and tariffs, current and changing regulatory regimes, differences in the availability and terms of financing, political instability and potential increases in taxes. These factors could impact the Company's production capability or adversely affect the Company's results of operations or financial condition. The Company may not be able to successfully integrate current or future acquisitions with its operations or identify attractive acquisition opportunities in the future. Because the markets and industries in which the Company operates are highly competitive, and due to the inherent uncertainties associated with the integration of acquired companies, the Company may not be able to integrate current or future acquisitions without encountering difficulties including, without limitation, the loss of key employees and customers, the disruption of the ongoing businesses and possible inconsistencies in standards, controls and procedures. In addition, the Company may not be able to achieve the expected cost synergies from its purchase of any current or future acquisitions and the Company may incur higher than anticipated integration or restructuring costs associated with it. The Company's business strategy includes growth through select acquisitions of other businesses. However, acquisition opportunities may not be available or may not be attractively priced because of competition or other factors. In addition, the Company may be unable to fund an acquisition opportunity. Even if the Company is able to make acquisitions, it may be unable to successfully integrate such acquisitions into the Company's existing operations and operational difficulties or diminished financial performance may result or a disproportionate amount of management's attention may be diverted. Even if the Company is successful in integrating any future acquisitions, it may not derive the benefits, such as operational, cost or administrative synergies that the Company expects. Losing the services of the Company's executive officers or the Company's other highly qualified and experienced employees or the Company's inability to continue to attract and retain additional qualified personnel could harm the Company's business. The Company's success depends upon the continued contributions of the Company's executive officers and certain other employees, many of whom have many years of experience with KEMET and would be extremely difficult to replace. The Company must also attract and retain experienced and highly skilled engineering, sales and marketing and managerial personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense in the Company's industry, and the Company may not be successful in hiring and 13 retaining these people. If the Company lost the services of the Company's executive officers or the Company's other highly qualified and experienced employees, or cannot attract and retain other qualified personnel, the Company's business could suffer through less effective management due to loss of accumulated knowledge of the Company's business or through less successful products due to a reduced ability to design, manufacture and market the Company's products. Environmental laws and regulations could limit the Company's ability to operate as the Company is currently operating and could result in additional costs. The Company is subject to a variety of U.S. federal, state and local, as well as foreign, environmental laws and regulations relating, among other things, to wastewater discharge, air emissions, handling of hazardous materials, disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, and remediation of soil and groundwater contamination. The Company uses a number of chemicals or similar substances, and generates wastes, that are classified as hazardous. The Company requires environmental permits to conduct many of the Company's operations. Violations of environmental laws and regulations could result in substantial fines, penalties, and other sanctions. Changes in environmental laws or regulations (or in their enforcement) affecting or limiting, for example, the Company's chemical uses, certain of the Company's manufacturing processes, or the Company's disposal practices, could restrict the Company's ability to operate as the Company is currently operating or impose additional costs. In addition, the Company may experience releases of certain chemicals or discover existing contamination, which could cause us to incur material cleanup costs or other damages. The Company must continue to develop innovative products to maintain relationships with the Company's customers and to offset potential price erosion in older products. While most of the fundamental technologies used in the passive components industry have been available for a long time, the market is nonetheless typified by rapid changes in product designs and technological advances allowing for better performance, smaller size and/or lower cost. New applications are frequently found for existing technologies, and new technologies occasionally replace existing technologies for some applications or open up new business opportunities in other areas of application. The Company believes that successful innovation is critical for maintaining profitability in the face of potential erosion of selling prices for existing products and to ensure the flow of new products and robust manufacturing processes that will keep us at the forefront of the Company's customers' product designs. Non-customized commodity products are especially vulnerable to price pressure, but customized products have also experienced price pressure in recent years. Developing and marketing new products requires start-up costs that may not be recouped if these products or production techniques are not successful. There are numerous risks inherent in product development, including the risks that the Company will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that it will be unable to develop and market new products and applications in a timely fashion to satisfy customer demands. If this occurs, the Company could lose customers and experience adverse effects on the Company's results of operations. The Company may not achieve the expected benefits of its manufacturing relocation plan or other restructuring plans the Company has or may adopt in the future. In July 2003, the Company announced the Company's manufacturing relocation plan to improve the Company's position as a global leader in passive electronic technologies. Pursuant to the plan, the Company reorganized the Company's operations around the world. Several of the Company's facilities were relocated based on access to key customers, access to key technical resources and knowledge, and availability of low-cost resources. The Company has also undertaken several other restructuring actions over the last several years to reduce the Company's costs and to make the Company's operations more efficient. The Company has substantially completed the 2003 manufacturing relocation plan. The 14 Company has experienced significant growth through acquisitions during the past two years. As these businesses are integrated in the Company, the Company will continue to assess the optimum structure and location of the Company's manufacturing operations. In fiscal year 2009, the Company anticipates manufacturing relocation costs will be incurred as it finalizes the integration of these newly acquired businesses. To the extent the Company is unsuccessful in realizing the goals of any or all of these initiatives, the Company will not be able to achieve the Company's anticipated operating results. To the extent the Company embarks on additional restructuring or repositioning programs, such initiatives may not achieve expected benefits. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 