ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Safe Harbor Statement From time to time, information provided by the Company, including but not limited to statements in this report or other statements made by or on behalf of the Company, may contain “forward-looking” information within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The Company’s actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. The cautionary statements set forth herein under the heading Safe Harbor Statement identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company intends that these forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbor created by that provision. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties beyond the Company’s control. The inclusion of this forward-looking information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company that the future events, plans, or expectations contemplated by the Company will be achieved. Furthermore, past performance in operations and share price is not necessarily predictive of future performance. Finally, the Company cannot assume responsibility for certain information that is based upon market estimates. The Company wishes to caution readers that the following important factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, KEMET’s actual results and could cause KEMET’s actual consolidated results for the first quarter of fiscal year 2007 and beyond to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, the Company whether contained herein, in other documents subsequently filed by the Company with the SEC, or in oral statements: Cyclical changes in the electronics industry could result in significant fluctuations in demand for our products, reducing our profitability. Our products are used in the electronics industry, which is a highly cyclical industry. The demand for capacitors tends to reflect the demand for products in the electronics market. Our customers’ requirements for our capacitors fluctuate as a result of changes in general economic activity and other factors that affect the demand for their products. During periods of increasing demand for their products, they typically seek 11 to increase their inventory of our products to avoid production bottlenecks. When demand for their products peaks and begins to decline, they may rapidly decrease orders for our products while they use up accumulated inventory. Business cycles vary somewhat in different geographical regions, such as Asia, and within customer industries. We are also vulnerable to general economic events beyond our control and our sales and profits may suffer in periods of weak demand. We must consistently reduce the total costs of our products to combat the impact of downward price trends. Our industry is intensely competitive and prices for existing products tend to decrease steadily over their life cycle. There is substantial and continuing pressure from customers to reduce the total cost of using our parts. To remain competitive, we must achieve continuous cost reductions through process and product improvements. We must also be in a position to minimize our customers’ shipping and inventory financing costs and to meet their other goals for rationalization of supply and production. Our growth and the profit margins of our products will suffer if our competitors are more successful in reducing the total cost to customers of their products than we are. An increase in the cost of our principal raw materials could adversely affect profitability. The principal raw materials used in the manufacture of our products are tantalum powder, palladium and silver. These materials are considered commodities and are subject to price volatility. Tantalum powder is primarily purchased under annual contracts, while palladium and silver are primarily purchased on the spot and forward markets, depending on market conditions. For example, if we believe that prices are likely to rise, we may purchase a significant amount of our annual requirements on a forward delivery basis. Presently three suppliers process tantalum ore into capacitor-grade tantalum powder. Our management believes that the tantalum we require has generally been available in sufficient quantities to meet our requirements and that there are a sufficient number of tantalum processors relative to foreseeable demand. However, the limited number of tantalum powder suppliers could lead to increases in tantalum prices that we may not be able to pass on to our customers. Palladium is presently found primarily in South Africa and Russia. Although the palladium we require has generally been available in sufficient quantities, the limited number of palladium suppliers could lead to significant price fluctuations. For instance, in fiscal 2001 the price of palladium fluctuated between $554 and $1,090 per troy ounce. Such price increases and our inability to pass such price increases on to our customers could have an adverse effect on our profitability. Silver has generally been available in sufficient quantities, and we believe there are a sufficient number of suppliers from which we can purchase our silver requirements. An increase in the price of silver that we were not able to pass on to our customers could adversely affect our profitability. We face intense competition in our business. The capacitor business is highly competitive worldwide, with low transportation costs and few import barriers. Competition is based on factors such as product quality and reliability, availability, customer service, timely delivery and price. The industry has become increasingly concentrated and globalized in recent years, and our primary U.S. and non-U.S. competitors, some of which are larger than us, have significant financial resources. We manufacture many of our capacitors in Mexico and China and future political or regulatory changes in Mexico or China could adversely affect our profitability. Although we have not experienced significant problems conducting operations in Mexico or China, changes in local economic or political conditions or a change in the regulatory structure within Mexico or 12 China, such as the imposition of new tax regulations, could impact our production capability or adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We may not be able to successfully integrate the Tantalum Capacitor Business or any future acquisitions with our operations. Because the markets and industries in which we operate are highly competitive, and due to the inherent uncertainties associated with the integration of acquired companies, we may not be able to integrate the Tantalum Capacitor Business of EPCOS without encountering difficulties including, without limitation, the loss of key employees and customers, the disruption of the ongoing businesses and possible inconsistencies in standards, controls and procedures. In addition, we may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices and to successfully and timely complete and integrate them. Losing the services of our executive officers or our other highly qualified and experienced employees could harm our business. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers, many of whom have many years of experience with KEMET and would be extremely difficult to replace. We must also attract and maintain experienced and highly skilled engineering, sales and marketing and managerial personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense in our industry, and we may not be successful in hiring and retaining these people. If we lose the services of our executive officers or cannot attract and retain other qualified personnel, our business could suffer through less effective management due to loss of accumulated knowledge of our business or through less competitive products due to a reduced ability to design, manufacture and market our products. Environmental laws and regulations could limit our ability to operate as we are currently operating and could result in additional costs. We are subject to a variety of U.S. federal, state and local, as well as foreign, environmental laws and regulations relating, among other things, to wastewater discharge, air emissions, handling of hazardous materials, disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, and remediation of soil and groundwater contamination. We use a number of chemicals or similar substances, and generate wastes, that are classified as hazardous. We require environmental permits to conduct many of our operations. Violations of environmental laws and regulations could result in substantial fines, penalties, and other sanctions. Changes in environmental laws or regulations (or in their enforcement) affecting or limiting, for example, our chemical uses, certain of our manufacturing processes, or our disposal practices, could restrict our ability to operate as we are currently operating or impose additional costs. In addition, we may experience releases of certain chemicals or discover existing contamination, which could cause us to incur material cleanup costs or other damages. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 