ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. This report contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, our forward-looking statements. Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates" and other similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "should," "would" and "could" are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Readers of this report should not rely solely on the forward-looking statements and should consider all uncertainties and risks throughout this report. The statements are representative only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement. All forward-looking statements, by their nature, are subject to risks and uncertainties. Our actual future results may differ materially from those set forth in our forward-looking statements. We face risks that are inherent in the businesses and the market places in which we operate. While we believe these forward-looking statements are accurate and reasonable, uncertainties, risks and factors, including those described below, could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause the actual outcome and results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements include, but are not necessarily limited to the following: (i) continued uncertainty of the economy could impact our ability to realize operating plans if the demand for our products declines and could adversely affect our liquidity and ability to continue to operate; (ii) adverse economic conditions could cause further reevaluation and the write down of long-lived assets; (iii) an increase in the cost or a decrease in the availability of our principal raw materials; (iv) changes in the competitive environment; (v) certain of our capacitors are incorporated into products used in heavily regulated industries; (vi) economic, political, or regulatory changes in the countries in which we operate; (vii) difficulties, delays or unexpected costs in completing the restructuring plan; (viii) the ability to attract, train and retain effective employees and management; (ix) the ability to develop innovative products to maintain customer relationships; (x) the impact of environmental issues, laws, and regulations; (xi) volatility of financial and credit markets which would affect our access to capital; (xii) increased difficulty or expense in accessing capital because of the delisting of our common stock from the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"); (xiii) exposure to foreign exchange gains and losses; (xiv) need to reduce costs to offset downward price trends; (xv) potential limitation on use of net operating losses to offset possible future taxable income; (xvi) dilution as a result of the issuance of the warrant held by K Equity, LLC; and (xvii) exercise of the warrant by K Equity, LLC may result in the existence of a controlling stockholder. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and also could cause actual results to differ materially from those included, contemplated or implied by the forward-looking statements made in this report, and the reader should not consider the above list of factors to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties. The continued uncertainty of the economy could impact our ability to realize operating plans if the demand for our products declines and could adversely affect our liquidity and ability to continue to operate. While our operating plans provide for cash generated from operations to be sufficient to cover our future operating requirements, many factors, including reduced demand for our products, currency exchange rate fluctuations, increased raw material costs, and other adverse market conditions could cause a shortfall in net cash generated from operations. As an example, the electronics industry is a highly cyclical industry. The demand for capacitors tends to reflect the demand for products in the 14 electronics market. Customers' requirements for our capacitors fluctuate as a result of changes in general economic activity and other factors that affect the demand for their products. During periods of increasing demand for their products, they typically seek to increase their inventory of our products to avoid production bottlenecks. When demand for their products peaks and begins to decline, they may rapidly decrease orders for our products while they use up accumulated inventory. Business cycles vary somewhat in different geographical regions, such as Asia, and within customer industries. We are also vulnerable to general economic events beyond our control and our sales and profits may suffer in periods of weak demand. TTI, Inc., a distributor, accounted for over 10% of our net sales in fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008. If our relationship with TTI, Inc. were to terminate, we would need to determine alternative means of delivering our products to the end-customers served by TTI, Inc. To provide financial flexibility, we may enter into negotiations to secure additional financing or sell non-core assets. However, there can be no assurances that we will be successful in either of these strategic initiatives. Our ability to realize operating plans is also dependent upon meeting our payment obligations and complying with any applicable financial covenants under our debt agreements. If cash generated from operating, investing and financing activities is insufficient to pay for operating requirements and to cover interest payment obligations under debt instruments, planned operating and capital expenditures may need to be reduced. Adverse economic conditions could cause further reevaluation and the write down of long-lived assets. Long-lived assets and intangible assets subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. In the event that the test shows that the carrying value of certain long-lived assets are impaired, we would be required to take an impairment charge to earnings under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. However, such a charge would have no direct effect on our cash. An increase in the cost or decrease in the availability of our principal raw materials could adversely affect profitability. The principal raw materials used in the manufacture of our products are tantalum powder, palladium, aluminum and silver. These materials are considered commodities and are subject to price volatility. Due to market constraints, we no longer purchase tantalum powder under long-term contracts. Instead, we forecast our tantalum needs for the short-term (twelve weeks) and make purchases based upon those forecasts; we currently have purchase agreements outstanding for three to six months. While the financial impact of these decisions are short-term in nature given that we are not currently party to any long-term supply agreements, they could impact our financial performance from period to period given that we do not hedge any of our raw material exposure and we may be unable to pass on to a significant number of our customers any fluctuations in our raw material costs. Additionally, any delays in obtaining raw materials for our products could hinder our ability to manufacture our products, negatively impacting our competitive position and our relationships with our customers. Presently, a limited number of suppliers process tantalum ore into capacitor-grade tantalum powder. We believe the tantalum our operations require is generally available in sufficient quantities to meet our requirements and that there are a sufficient number of tantalum processors relative to foreseeable demand. Although limited, additional suppliers have emerged in the market. This fact, along with our effort to broaden the number of qualified suppliers, should minimize our commodity 15 price risk exposure. However, an increase in the price of tantalum that we are unable to pass on to our customers, could have an adverse affect on our profitability. Palladium is a precious metal used in the manufacture of multilayer ceramic capacitors and is mined primarily in Russia and South Africa. We are aggressively pursuing ways to reduce palladium usage in ceramic capacitors in order to minimize the price risk. The amount of palladium that we require has generally been available in sufficient quantities, however of the price of palladium is driven by the market which has shown significant price fluctuations. For instance, in fiscal year 2009 the price of palladium fluctuated between $177 and $444 per troy ounce. Price increases and the possibility of our inability to pass such increases on to our customers could have an adverse effect on profitability. Silver and aluminum have generally been available in sufficient quantities, and we believe there are a sufficient number of suppliers from which we can purchase our requirements. In addition, while silver was previously primarily purchased on the spot and forward markets, we now manage silver inventory levels to maintain close to a zero balance in an effort to remain lean. An increase in the price of silver that we are unable to pass on to our customers, however, could have an adverse affect on our profitability. We face intense competition. The capacitor business is highly competitive worldwide, with low transportation costs and few import barriers. Competition is based on factors such as product quality and reliability, availability, customer service, timely delivery and price. The industry has become increasingly consolidated and globalized in recent years, and our primary U.S. and non-U.S. competitors, some of which are larger than us, have significant financial resources. The greater financial resources of such competitors may enable them to commit larger amounts of capital in response to changing market conditions. Some competitors may also have the ability to use profits from other operations to subsidize losses sustained in their businesses with which we compete. Certain competitors may also develop product or service innovations that could put us at a disadvantage. Certain of our capacitors are incorporated into products used in heavily regulated industries. Our capacitors are incorporated into products used in diverse industries. Certain of these industries, such as military, aerospace and medical, are heavily regulated, with long and sometimes unpredictable product approval and qualification processes. Due to such regulatory compliance issues, there can be no assurances as to the timing of product revenues and profitability arising from our product development and sales efforts in these industries. We manufacture many capacitors in Europe, Mexico and Asia and future political or regulatory changes in any of these regions could adversely affect our profitability. Our international operations are subject to a number of special risks, in addition to the same risks as our domestic business. These risks include currency exchange rate fluctuations, differing protections of intellectual property, trade barriers, labor unrest, exchange controls, regional economic uncertainty, differing (and possibly more stringent) labor regulation, risk of governmental expropriation, domestic and foreign customs and tariffs, current and changing regulatory regimes, differences in the availability and terms of financing, political instability and potential increases in taxes. These factors could impact our production capability or adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We may experience difficulties, delays or unexpected costs in completing the restructuring plan. In the second quarter of fiscal year 2010, we initiated a restructuring plan designed to improve the operating performance of Film and Electrolytic. However, any anticipated benefits of this restructuring 16 activity will not be realized until future periods. The plan is expected to take approximately two to three years to complete. We may not realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits of the restructuring plan without encountering difficulties, which may include complications in the transfer of production knowledge, loss of key employees and/or customers, the disruption of ongoing business and possible inconsistencies in standards, controls and procedures. We are party to collective bargaining agreements in certain jurisdictions in which we operate which could potentially prevent or delay execution of parts of our restructuring plan. Losing the services of our executive officers or our other highly qualified and experienced employees or our inability to continue to attract and retain additional qualified personnel could harm our business. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and certain other employees, many of whom have many years of experience with us and would be extremely difficult to replace. We must also attract and retain experienced and highly skilled engineering, sales and marketing and managerial personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense in our industry, and we may not be successful in hiring and retaining these people. If we lost the services of our executive officers or our other highly qualified and experienced employees or cannot attract and retain other qualified personnel, our business could suffer through less effective management due to loss of accumulated knowledge of our business or through less successful products due to a reduced ability to design, manufacture and market our products. We must continue to develop innovative products to maintain relationships with our customers and to offset potential price erosion in older products. While most of the fundamental technologies used in the passive components industry have been available for a long time, the market is nonetheless typified by rapid changes in product designs and technological advances allowing for better performance, smaller size and/or lower cost. New applications are frequently found for existing technologies, and new technologies occasionally replace existing technologies for some applications or open up new business opportunities in other areas of application. We believe that successful innovation is critical for maintaining profitability in the face of potential erosion of selling prices for existing products and to ensure the flow of new products and robust manufacturing processes that will keep us at the forefront of our customers' product designs. Non-customized commodity products are especially vulnerable to price pressure, but customized products have also experienced price pressure in recent years. Developing and marketing new products requires start-up costs that may not be recouped if these products or production techniques are not successful. There are numerous risks inherent in product development, including the risks that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to develop and market new products and applications in a timely fashion to satisfy customer demands. If this occurs, we could lose customers and experience adverse effects on our results of operations. Various laws and regulations that apply to our business, including those relating to environmental matters, could limit our ability to operate as we are currently and could result in additional costs. We are subject to various laws and regulations of federal, state and local authorities in the countries in which we operate regarding a wide variety of matters, including environmental, employment, land use, anti-trust, and others that affect the day-to-day operations of our business. The liabilities and requirements associated with the laws and regulations that affect us may be costly and time-consuming. There can be no assurance that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with such applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations, the suspension or revocation of permits and other enforcement measures that could have the effect of 17 limiting our operations. If we are pursued for sanctions, costs or liabilities in respect of these matters, our operations and, as a result, our profitability could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to a variety of U.S. federal, state and local, as well as foreign, environmental laws and regulations relating, among other things, to wastewater discharge, air emissions, handling of hazardous materials, disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, and remediation of soil and groundwater contamination. We use a number of chemicals or similar substances, and generate wastes, that are considered hazardous. We require environmental permits to conduct many of our operations. Violations of environmental laws and regulations could result in substantial fines, penalties, and other sanctions. Changes in environmental laws or regulations (or in their enforcement) affecting or limiting, for example, our chemical uses, certain of our manufacturing processes, or our disposal practices, could restrict our ability to operate as we are currently operating or impose additional costs. In addition, we may experience releases of certain chemicals or discover existing contamination, which could cause us to incur material cleanup costs or other damages. Volatility of financial and credit markets could affect our access to capital. The continued uncertainty in the global financial and credit markets could impact our ability to implement new financial arrangements or to modify our existing financial arrangements. An inability to obtain new financing or to further modify existing financing could adversely impact the execution of our restructuring plans and delay the realization of the expected cost reductions. Our ability to generate adequate liquidity will depend on our ability to execute our operating plans and to manage costs in light of developing economic conditions. An unanticipated decrease in sales, or other factors that would cause the actual outcome of our plans to differ from expectations, could create a shortfall in cash available to fund our liquidity needs. Being unable to access new capital, experiencing a shortfall in cash from operations to fund our liquidity needs and the failure to implement an initiative to offset the shortfall in cash, such as, for example, a sale of non-core assets, would likely have a material adverse effect on our business. We are currently listed on the OTC Bulletin Board which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our listing on the OTC Bulletin Board could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations by, among other things, limiting: •the liquidity of our common stock; •the market price of our common stock; •the number of institutional and other investors that will consider investing in our common stock; •the availability of information concerning the trading prices and volume of our common stock; •the number of broker-dealers willing to execute trades in shares of our common stock; and •our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of operations. Our inability to purchase forward exchange contracts exposes us to foreign exchange gains and losses. Given our international operations and sales, we are exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates. Of these, the most significant are currently the Euro and the Mexican peso. A portion of our sales to our customers and operating costs in Europe are denominated in Euro creating an exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. Also, a portion of our costs in our Mexican operations are denominated in Mexican pesos, creating an exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. Additionally, certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries make sales denominated in U.S. dollars which expose them to foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Historically, in order to minimize our exposure, we 18 periodically entered into forward foreign exchange contracts in which the future cash flows in the Euro or Mexican peso were hedged against the U.S. dollar. In the event we were to establish a revolving line of credit or foreign exchange line of credit, we will consider entering into forward exchange contracts. We must consistently reduce the total costs of our products to remain competitive. Our industry is intensely competitive and prices for existing commodity products tend to decrease steadily over their life cycle. There is substantial and continuing pressure from customers to reduce the total cost of using our parts. To remain competitive, we must achieve continuous cost reductions through process and product improvements. We must also be in a position to minimize our customers' shipping and inventory financing costs and to meet their other goals for rationalization of supply and production. Our growth and the profit margins of our products will suffer if our competitors are more successful in reducing the total cost to customers of their products than we are. We must also continue to introduce new products that offer performance advantages over our existing products and can thereby achieve premium prices, offsetting the price declines in our more mature products. Our use of net operating loss carryforwards could be limited by ownership changes. In addition to the general limitations on the carryback and carryforward of net operating losses under Section 172 of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"), Section 382 of the Code imposes further limitations on the utilization of net operating losses by a corporation following various types of ownership changes which result in more than a 50 percentage point change in ownership of a corporation within a three year period. Therefore, the future utilization of our net operating losses may be subject to limitation for regular federal income tax purposes. The issuance of the Closing Warrant may be deemed an "ownership change" for purposes of Section 382 of the Code. If such an ownership change is deemed to occur, the amount of our taxable income that can be offset by our net operating loss carryovers in taxable years after the ownership change will be severely limited. While we believe that the issuance of the Closing Warrant did not result in an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 of the Code, there is no assurance that our view will be unchallenged. Moreover, a future exercise of part or all of the Closing Warrant may give rise to an ownership change in the future. The application of Section 382 of the Code now or in the future could limit or deny all or a substantial part of our future utilization of available net operating losses, if any. Such limitation or denial could require us to pay substantial additional federal and state taxes and interest. Such tax and interest liabilities may adversely affect our liquidity and financial position. Holders of our common stock are subject to the risk of dilution as a result of the warrant held by K Equity, LLC. As part of the consideration for entering into the Platinum Credit Facility, we granted K Financing a warrant to purchase up to 80,544,685 shares of our common stock at a maximum aggregate purchase price of $40.3 million, subject to certain adjustments, representing up to 49.9% of our outstanding common stock on a post-Closing warrant basis. This warrant was subsequently transferred to K Equity, LLC. The warrant is exercisable at any time prior to the tenth anniversary of the date of issuance. The exercise of the warrant could result in dilution to the holders of our common stock. In addition to the potential dilutive effective of a warrant, there is the potential that a large number of the shares may be traded in the public market at any time, which could place significant downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. The issuance and sale of additional shares in the public market could also impair our ability to raise capital by selling equity securities. 19 The exercise of the warrant by K Equity, LLC may result in the existence of a controlling stockholder that may have interests that conflict with our interests and those of our other stockholders. On June 30, 2009, K Financing received a warrant to purchase up to 80,544,685 shares of our common stock. The initial maximum aggregate exercise price of the Closing Warrant was $40.3 million and the aggregate exercise price was subsequently adjusted pursuant to its terms to $28.2 million. This warrant was subsequently transferred to K Equity, an affiliate of K Financing. Upon exercise of the warrant, K Equity may own up to approximately 49% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, K Equity would have significant influence over our management and affairs, and would be able to control virtually all matters requiring approval by the stockholders, including the vote to approve members of our board of directors. K Equity would have significant influence over actions to be taken by us and our board of directors, including amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and approval of significant corporate transactions, including mergers and sales of substantially all of our assets. It is possible that the interests of K Equity may in some circumstances conflict with our interests and the interests of our other stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 