Item 1A. Risk Factors. This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of factors both in and out of our control, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. You should carefully consider the risks described below. In addition, the risks described below are not the only ones facing us. We have only described the risks we consider to be the most material. However, there may be additional risks that are viewed by us as not material at the present time or are not presently known to us. Conditions could change in the future, or new information may come to our attention that could impact our assessment of these risks. If any of the events described below were to occur, our business, prospects, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. When we say below that something could or will have a material adverse effect on us, we mean that it could or will have one or more of these effects. In any such case, the price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in our company. We may be adversely affected by trends in the retail industry. With the growing trend towards retail trade consolidation, we are increasingly dependent upon key retailers whose bargaining strength is growing. Our business may be negatively affected by changes in the policies of our retailers, such as inventory destocking, limitations on access to shelf space, price demands and other conditions. In addition, as a result of the desire of retailers to more closely manage inventory levels, there is a growing trend among retailers to make purchases on a “just-in-time” basis. This requires us to shorten our lead time for production in certain cases and to more closely anticipate demand, which could in the future require the carrying of additional inventories and an increase in our working capital and related financing requirements. A significant deterioration in the financial condition of one of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability and cash flow. We continually monitor and evaluate the credit status of our customers and attempt to adjust sales terms as appropriate. Despite these efforts, a bankruptcy filing by a key customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition in the future. We depend on a few customers for a significant portion of our business. Wal*Mart, our largest customer, accounted for approximately 17% of our net sales in fiscal 2006, 19% in fiscal 2005 and 20% in fiscal 2004. In addition, Home Depot, Lowe’s, PETsMART and PETCO are also significant customers although each accounted for less than 10% of our net sales and, together with Wal*Mart, accounted for approximately 40% of our net sales in fiscal 2006, 42% in fiscal 2005 and 43% in fiscal 2004. The market share of each of these key retailers has increased during recent years and may continue to increase in future years. The loss of, or significant adverse change in, our relationship with any of these key retailers could cause our net sales, income from operations and cash flow to decline. The loss of, or reduction in, orders from any significant customer, losses arising from customer disputes regarding shipments, fees, merchandise condition or related matters, or our inability to collect accounts receivable from any major customer could reduce our income from operations and cash flow. 14 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that our product innovations and marketing successes will continue. We believe that our past performance has been based on, and our future success will depend upon, in part, our ability to continue to improve our existing products through product innovation and to develop, market and produce new products. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in the introduction, marketing and production of any new products or product innovations, or that we will develop and introduce in a timely manner innovations to our existing products which satisfy customer needs or achieve market acceptance. Our failure to develop new products and introduce them successfully and in a timely manner could harm our ability to grow our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Seeds and grains we use to produce bird feed and grass seed are commodity products subject to price volatility that has had, and could have, a negative impact on us. Our financial results depend to some extent on the cost of raw materials and our ability to pass along increases in these costs to our customers. In particular, our Pennington and Kaytee subsidiaries are exposed to fluctuations in market prices for commodity seeds and grains used to produce bird feed. Historically, market prices for commodity seeds and grains have fluctuated in response to a number of factors, including changes in United States government farm support programs, changes in international agricultural and trading policies and weather conditions during the growing and harvesting seasons. In the event of any increases in raw materials costs, we are required to increase sales prices to avoid margin deterioration. To mitigate our exposure to changes in market prices, we enter into purchase contracts for grains, bird feed and grass seed to cover up to approximately one-third of the purchase requirements for a selling season. Since these contracts cover only a portion of our purchase requirements, as market prices for grains increase, our cost of production increases as well. In contrast, if market prices for grains decrease because of a lack of demand, we may end up purchasing grains and seeds pursuant to the purchase contracts at prices above market. In 2006, crop yields for grass seed and for the primary components of wild bird feed, notably sunflower, milo and millet, were adversely impacted by drought conditions in key growing regions of the United States. Supply has been further limited as more and more farmers shift to corn-based crops for the production of ethanol. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 and the first quarter of fiscal 2007, prices for some of our key crops increased substantially. We are currently negotiating price increases with our retailers; however, we cannot assure you as to the timing or extent of our ability to implement price adjustments in the current context of rising costs or in the event of increased costs in the future. We also cannot predict to what extent price increases may negatively affect our sales volume. The current increase in grain costs is expected to have a negative impact on fiscal 2007 operating income by $8-10 million. Competition in our industries may hinder our ability to execute our business strategy, achieve profitability or maintain relationships with existing customers. We operate in highly competitive industries, which have experienced increased consolidation in recent years. We compete against numerous other companies, some of which are more established in their industries and have substantially greater revenue or resources than we do. Our products compete against national and regional products and private label products produced by various suppliers. Our largest competitors in pet supplies products are Spectrum Brands and Hartz Mountain, and our largest competitors in lawn and garden products are The Scotts Company and Spectrum Brands. To compete effectively, among other things, we must: • develop and grow brands with leading market positions; • maintain our relationships with key retailers; • continually develop innovative new products that appeal to consumers; • maintain strict quality standards; 15 Table of Contents • deliver products on a reliable basis at competitive prices; and • effectively integrate acquired companies. Competition could cause lower sales volumes, price reductions, reduced profits or losses, or loss of market share. Our inability to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our acquisition strategy involves a number of risks. We have completed numerous acquisitions since 1997 and intend to grow through the acquisition of additional companies. We completed six acquisitions in fiscal 2004 and three in fiscal 2005. In fiscal 2006, we completed five acquisitions, including, the acquisition of Farnam Companies, Inc. for an initial purchase price of approximately $291 million. Farnam constituted a significant acquisition for us. We are regularly engaged in acquisition discussions with a number of companies and anticipate that one or more potential acquisition opportunities, including those that would be material, may become available in the near future. If and when appropriate acquisition opportunities become available, we intend to pursue them actively. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including: • failure of the acquired business to achieve expected results; • diversion of management’s attention; • failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business; • additional financing, if necessary and available, could increase leverage, dilute equity, or both; • the potential negative effect on our financial statements from the increase in goodwill and other intangibles; and • the high cost and expenses of completing acquisitions and risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have faced, and expect to continue to face, increased competition for acquisition candidates, which may limit the number of opportunities and may lead to higher acquisition prices. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, acquire, or manage profitably additional businesses or to integrate successfully any acquired businesses into our existing business without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial difficulties. In future acquisitions, we also could incur additional indebtedness or pay consideration in excess of fair value, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our lawn and garden sales are highly seasonal and subject to adverse weather, either of which could impact our cash flow and operating results. Because our lawn and garden products are used primarily in the spring and summer, Garden Products’ business is seasonal. In fiscal 2006, approximately 61% of Garden Products’ net sales and 56% of our total net sales occurred during our second and third fiscal quarters. Substantially all of Garden Products’ operating income is generated in this period. Our working capital needs and our borrowings generally peak in our second fiscal quarter because we are generating fewer revenues while incurring expenses in preparation for the spring selling season. If cash on hand and borrowings under our credit facilities are ever insufficient to meet our seasonal needs or if cash flow generated during the spring and summer is insufficient to repay our borrowings on a timely basis, this seasonality could have a material adverse effect on our business. Because demand for lawn and garden products is significantly influenced by weather, particularly weekend weather during the peak gardening season, our results of operations and cash flow could also be adversely 16 Table of Contents affected by certain weather patterns such as unseasonably cool or warm temperatures, water shortages or floods. During 2003 and 2004, our results of operations and cash flow were negatively affected by severe weather conditions in some parts of the United States. Our operating results and cash flow are susceptible to fluctuations. We expect to continue to experience variability in our net sales, net income and cash flow on a quarterly basis. Factors that may contribute to this variability include: • fluctuations in prices of commodity grains; • weather conditions during peak gardening seasons and seasonality; • shifts in demand for lawn and garden products; • shifts in demand for pet products; • changes in product mix, service levels and pricing by us and our competitors; • the effect of acquisitions, including the costs of acquisitions that are not completed; and • economic stability of retailers. These fluctuations could negatively impact our business and the market price of our common stock. Our success is dependent upon retaining key personnel. Our future performance is substantially dependent upon the continued services of William E. Brown, our Chairman, Glenn W. Novotny, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and our other senior officers. The loss of the services of any of these persons could have a material adverse effect upon us. In addition, our future performance depends on our ability to attract and retain skilled employees. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing personnel or attract additional qualified employees in the future. Rising energy prices could adversely affect our operating results. In the last few years, energy prices have risen dramatically, which has resulted in increased fuel costs for our businesses and raw materials costs for our branded products. Rising energy prices could adversely affect consumer spending and demand for our products and increase our operating costs, both of which would reduce our sales and operating income. We are implementing a new enterprise resource planning information technology system that will result in an increase in IT spending over the next several years. In fiscal 2005, we began incurring costs associated with designing and implementing a new company-wide enterprise resource planning software system with the objective of gradually migrating to the new system over the following four fiscal years. Upon completion, this new system will replace our numerous existing accounting and financial reporting systems, most of which we obtained through our various business acquisitions. We have invested approximately $15 million in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 (on a combined basis) in this initiative and anticipate investing an additional $25 million as we continue to implement the system over the next three years. If we do not complete the implementation of the project timely and successfully, we may experience, among other things, additional costs associated with completing this project and a delay in realizing the projected reduction in operating costs. All of this may also result in a distraction of management’s time, diverting their attention from our existing operations and strategy. 17 Table of Contents Some of the products that we manufacture and distribute require governmental permits and also subject us to potential environmental liabilities. Some of the products that we manufacture and distribute are subject to regulation by federal, state and local authorities. Such regulations are often complex and are subject to change. Environmental regulations may affect us by restricting the manufacturing or use of our products or regulating their disposal. Regulatory or legislative changes may cause future increases in our operating costs or otherwise affect operations. Although we believe we are and have been in substantial compliance with such regulations and have internal guidelines on the handling and disposal of our products, there is no assurance that in the future we may not be adversely affected by such regulations or incur increased operating costs in complying with such regulations. However, neither the compliance with regulatory requirements nor our environmental procedures can ensure that we will not be subject to claims for personal injury, property damages or governmental enforcement. In addition, while we do not anticipate having to make, and historically have not had to make, significant capital expenditures to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, due to the nature of our operations and the frequently changing nature of environmental compliance standards and technology, we cannot predict with any certainty that future material capital expenditures will not be required. In addition to operational standards, environmental laws also impose obligations on various entities to clean up contaminated properties or to pay for the cost of such remediation, often upon parties that did not actually cause the contamination. Accordingly, we may become liable, either contractually or by operation of law, for remediation costs even if the contaminated property is not presently owned or operated by us, or if the contamination was caused by third parties during or prior to our ownership or operation of the property. With our extensive acquisition history, we have acquired a number of manufacturing and distribution facilities. Given the nature of the past operations conducted by us and others at these properties, there can be no assurance that all potential instances of soil or groundwater contamination have been identified, even for those properties where an environmental site assessment has been conducted. While we are not subject to any existing remediation obligations, future events, such as changes in existing laws or policies or their enforcement, or the discovery of currently unknown contamination, may give rise to future remediation liabilities that may be material. See “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings, Phoenix Fire.” The products that we manufacture could expose us to product liability claims. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks in the manufacture and distribution of certain of our products. Although we generally seek to insure against such risks, there can be no assurance that such coverage is adequate or that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms. A successful product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on us and could prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially reasonable terms. We have pending litigation which could adversely impact our operating results. We are a party to certain legal proceedings, including litigation arising from a fire that destroyed our Phoenix, Arizona facility. We are currently unable to determine the total expense or possible loss, if any, that may ultimately be incurred in the resolution of our legal proceedings. Regardless of the ultimate outcome of our legal proceedings, they could result in significant diversion of time by our management. The results of our pending legal proceedings, including any potential settlements, are uncertain and we cannot assure you that the outcome of these disputes will not adversely affect our operating results or future cash flows. See “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings.” Our Chairman, through his holdings of our Class B stock, could greatly influence control of Central, which may discourage potential acquisitions of our business and could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Holders of Class B stock are entitled to the lesser of ten votes per share or 49% of the total votes cast and each share of Class B stock is convertible at any time into one share of our common stock. Holders of our 18 Table of Contents common stock are entitled to one vote for each share owned. As of December 1, 2006, William E. Brown, our Chairman, had beneficial ownership of 1,600,459 shares of our Class B stock (out of a total of 1,652,262 outstanding shares) and 83,983 shares of our common stock and thereby controlled approximately 42% of the voting power of our capital stock. Accordingly, except to the extent that a class vote of the common stock is required by applicable law, he can effectively control all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our directors, and can exert substantial control over our management and policies. The disproportionate voting rights of our common stock and Class B stock and Mr. Brown’s substantial holdings of Class B stock could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Also, such disproportionate voting rights and Mr. Brown’s controlling interest may make us a less attractive target for a takeover than we otherwise might be, or render more difficult or discourage a merger proposal, tender offer or proxy contest, even if such actions were favored by our common stockholders, which could thereby deprive holders of common stock of an opportunity to sell their shares for a “take-over” premium. The Company has authorized the issuance of up to 100,000,000 shares of nonvoting common stock and 999,900 shares of preferred stock, which may discourage potential acquisitions of our business and could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Pursuant to our Fourth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 100,000,000 shares of our nonvoting Class A common stock and up to 999,900 additional shares of preferred stock (100 shares of preferred stock are currently outstanding) without seeking the approval or consent of the Company’s shareholders, unless required by The Nasdaq Global Market (formerly known as the Nasdaq National Market). Although the issuance of the nonvoting Class A common stock would not dilute the voting rights of the existing stockholders, it could have a dilutive effect on the economic interest of currently outstanding shares of common stock and Class B stock similar to the dilutive effect of subsequent issuances of ordinary common stock. The issuance of the preferred stock could, depending on the rights and privileges designated by the Board with respect to the issuance of any particular series, have a dilutive effect on either or both the voting and economic interests of the common stock and Class B stock. In addition, the disproportionate voting rights of our common stock, preferred stock, Class B stock and Class A common stock, and the ability of the Board to issue the Class A common stock and the preferred stock to persons friendly to current management, may make us a less attractive target for a takeover than we otherwise might be, or render more difficult or discourage a merger proposal, tender offer or proxy contest, even if such actions were favored by our common stockholders, which could thereby deprive holders of common stock of an opportunity to sell their shares for a “take-over” premium. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 