Item 1A. Risk Factors: The following discussion highlights some of the risks related to our business and others are discussed elsewhere in this report. These and other risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows and the market value of our common stock. These risk factors may not include all of the important factors that could affect our business or our industry or that could cause our future financial results to differ materially from historic or expected results or cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. Risks Related to Our Industry If brand pharmaceutical companies are successful in limiting the use of generics through litigation, legislature and regulatory efforts, our sales of generic products may suffer. Many brand pharmaceutical companies increasingly have used state and federal legislative and regulatory and other litigation as means to delay generic competition. These efforts have included: • pursuing new patents for existing products which may be granted just before the expiration of one patent, which could extend patent protection for additional years or otherwise delay the launch of our generic product; 10 • submitting for changes in U.S. Pharmacopoeia which is an organization that publishes industry wide compendia of drug standards; • using the Citizen’s Petition process to request amendments to FDA standards; • attaching patent extension amendments to non-related federal legislation; • engage in state-by-state initiative to enact legislation that restricts substitution of certain generic drugs which could possibly impact products that we are developing. FDA approval is required before any generic drug products can be marketed. The process of obtaining FDA approval to manufacture and market new and generic pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time-consuming, costly and largely unpredictable. We, or a business partner, may be unable to obtain requisite FDA approvals on a timely basis for new generic products that we may develop, license or otherwise acquire. The timing and cost of obtaining FDA approvals could adversely affect our product introduction plans, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. The ANDA approval process may result in the FDA granting final ANDA approvals to more competitors than anticipated for a given product at the time a patent claim for a corresponding brand product or other market exclusivity expires resulting in lower than anticipated margins and sales. The addition of more competition when we introduce a generic product into the market potentially lowers our gross profit margin and overall sales. Additionally, ANDA approvals often continue to be granted for a given product subsequent to the initial launch of the generic product. These circumstances generally result in significantly lower prices, as well as reduced margins, for generic products compared to brand product’s pricing. New generic market entrants generally cause continued price and margin erosion over the generic product life cycle. Extensive industry regulation has had, and will continue to have, a significant impact on our business, especially our product development, manufacturing and distribution capabilities. All pharmaceutical companies, are subject to complex, costly regulations that continue to evolve as set forth by the federal government, principally the FDA and to a lesser extent by the DEA and state government agencies. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Controlled Substances Act and other federal statutes and regulations govern the testing, manufacturing, storage, packing, labeling, record keeping, safety, sales and marketing, promotion, and distribution of our products. Under these regulations, we are subject to periodic routine inspection of our facilities, procedures, operations and the testing of our products by the FDA, the DEA and other authorities that regulate our business. These inspections are designed to confirm that we are in compliance with all applicable regulations. Following an inspection, the FDA may issue notices on Form 483 and /or warning letters that could cause us to modify certain activities identified during the inspection. A Form 483 notice is generally issued at the conclusion of a FDA inspection and lists conditions the FDA inspectors believe may violate cGMP or other FDA regulations. FDA guidelines specify that a warning letter is issued only for violations of “regulatory significance” for which the failure to promptly and adequately achieve correction may be expected to result in an enforcement action. Possible sanctions could include among others, FDA issuance of adverse publicity, fines, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, suspension of the FDA’s review of product applications, enforcement actions, injunctions, and civil or criminal prosecution. These sanctions, if imposed, could materially harm our operating results and financial condition. Under certain circumstances, the FDA also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug approvals. Although we have internal compliance programs in place these programs may not meet regulatory agency standards or if compliance is deemed deficient in any significant way, it could materially harm our business. Certain of our vendors that sell to us are also subject to similar regulation and periodic inspections. We are also subject to various federal, state and local laws regulating working conditions, as well as environmental protection laws and regulations, including those governing the discharge of materials into the environment. Although we have not incurred significant costs associated with complying with environmental provisions in the past, if changes to such 11 environmental laws and regulations are made in the future that require significant changes in our operations or if we engage in the development and manufacturing of new products requiring new or different environmental controls, we may be required to expend significant funds. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Risks Related to Our Company If we are unable to successfully develop or commercialize new products, our operating results will suffer. Our future results of operations depend to a significant extent upon our ability to successfully commercialize new products in a timely manner. There are numerous difficulties in developing and commercializing new products, including: • developing, testing and manufacturing products in compliance with regulatory standards in a timely fashion; • receiving the requisite regulatory approvals for such products in a timely manner; • the availability of raw materials at a competitive cost, including active pharmaceutical ingredients and other key ingredients; • development and commercializing a new products is time consuming, costly and subject to various factors, including litigation brought by our competitors, that may delay or prevent the development and commercialization of new products expected to market. Our gross profit may fluctuate from period to period depending upon our product sales mix including new launches, our product pricing, customer class of trade, and our costs for active ingredients. Some specific issues that could result in a fluctuation could include any or all of the following; • the amount of new product introductions; • the level of competition and associated pricing pressure in the marketplace for certain products; • the availability of raw materials; • The balance of sales between manufactured product margin and distributed products margin. The profitability of our product sales is also dependent upon the prices we are able to charge for all our products, the costs of excipients purchased from third parties, and our ability to manufacture our products in a cost effective manner. An unaffiliated third party may make a claim for royalties which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In 1993, we entered into a products agreement with an unaffiliated generic drug company (the “Non-Affiliate”). Under the agreement, two products were to be delivered to us in exchange for royalties and options. Pursuant to the agreement, we received a formulation for one product (“the Product”) from the Non-Affiliate. However, we have determined that the formula provided to us by the Non-Affiliate with respect to the Product is different than the formula submitted and approved by the FDA and marketed by us. Accordingly, since April 2003, we have discontinued to accrue royalties. The Product has been one of our top selling products. There is no assurance that the Non-Affiliate will not challenge our determination and make a claim those royalties and/or options are owed. If successful, such a claim could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our policies regarding returns and chargebacks by wholesalers may reduce our revenues in future fiscal periods. Based on industry practice, generic product manufacturers including Caraco have liberal return policies and make decisions whether or not to provide shelf stock allowances (or credits) for inventories on hand on product that has already been sold to the customer. If a new competitor enters the marketplace and significantly lowers the price of any of its competing products, it is possible that we would make a decision to reduce the price of our product. As a result, we would be obligated to provide significant credits to our customers who are then holding inventories of such products, which could 12 reduce sales revenue and gross margin for the period the credit is provided. Like our competitors, we also give credits for chargebacks to wholesale customers that have contracts with us for their sales to chain drug retail, group purchasing organizations, or other retail customers. A chargeback represents an amount payable in the future to a wholesaler for the difference between the invoice price paid to us by our wholesale customer for a particular product and the negotiated contract price that the wholesaler’s customer pays for that product. Although we establish reserves we believe to be adequate that are based on our historical experience, actual chargebacks received, current chargeback rates and on hand inventory remaining at our wholesale customers, for the potential impact that these policies may have, we cannot ensure that our reserves are adequate or that actual product returns, allowances and chargebacks will not exceed our estimates, which could adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and market price of our stock. We are and may become involved in various legal proceedings including, but not limited to, patent infringement and products liability involving substantial amounts of money or for other relief. The manufacture, use and sale of new products that are the subject of conflicting patent rights have been the subject of substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical industry. These lawsuits relate to the validity and infringement of patents or proprietary rights of third parties. We may have to defend against charges that we violated patents or proprietary rights of third parties. Litigation may be costly and time-consuming, and could divert the attention of our management and technical personnel. If it is found that we infringe on the rights of others, we could lose our right to develop or manufacture products or could be required to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. An adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding relating to patent infringement and/or product liability could prevent us from manufacturing and selling a product(s), which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although we carry insurance, we believe that no reasonable amount of insurance can fully protect against all such risks because, among other things, of the potential liability inherent in the business of producing pharmaceuticals for human consumption. To the extent that a loss occurs, depending on the nature of the loss and the level of insurance coverage maintained, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. The loss of our key personnel could cause our business to suffer. The success of our present and future operations will depend, to a significant extent, upon the experience, abilities and continued services of key personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain key personnel. We do not maintain key person insurance. Sales of our products may continue to be adversely affected by the continuing consolidation of the distribution network and the concentration of customers. Our principal customers are wholesale drug distributors, major retail drug store chains and managed care companies. These customers comprise a significant portion of the distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the U.S. This distribution network is continuing to undergo significant consolidation marked by mergers and acquisitions among wholesale distributors, large retail drug store chains, managed care companies and mergers of a combination of trade classes. As a result, a small number of large wholesale distributors and large chain drug stores and managed care providers control a significant share of the market. We expect that consolidation of drug wholesalers, retailers and managed care providers will increase competitive pressures on drug manufacturers, including Caraco. Even if we are able to obtain regulatory approvals for our new pharmaceutical products, the success of those products is dependent upon market acceptance. Levels of market acceptance for our new products could be impacted by several factors, including: • availability of alternate product from our competitors; • the timing of our market entry; • acceptance of our product on government and private formularies; 13 • the prices that we sell our products at versus our competitors’ prices. From time to time a relatively small group of products could represent a significant portion of our sales and if the products sales of these product decline unexpectedly it could have a negative material effect on our business and could cause our market value of our common stock to decline. Sales of a limited number of our products often represent a significant portion of our net revenues and net earnings. If the volume or pricing of our largest selling products declines in the future, our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected, and the market value of our common stock could decline. Our competitors may be able to develop products and processes competitive with or superior to our own for many reasons, including that they may have: • proprietary processes or product delivery systems; • larger research and development and marketing staffs; • larger production capacity in general or for a given product; • more financial resources than Caraco; • more experience in developing new drugs. Our reporting and payment obligations under Medicaid and other governmental programs are complex and may change periodically based upon new guidelines provided by those agencies. Although the regulations regarding reporting and payment obligations are complex, we believe we are properly and accurately calculating and reporting the amounts owed in respect of Medicaid and other governmental pricing programs. Our calculations are subject to review and challenge by the applicable governmental agency, and it is possible that any such review could result in material changes. Any governmental agencies may initiate an investigation of the Company and could impose, based on a claim of violation of fraud and false claims laws or otherwise, civil and/or criminal sanctions, including fines, penalties and possible exclusion from federal health care programs (including Medicaid and Medicare). We depend primarily on Sun Global and Sun Pharma to assist us in our research and development. Collectively Sun Global and Sun Pharma could determine that its own research and development takes precedent over the research and development it provides to Caraco. Though we believe we have made efforts to mitigate this risk by working with other third party developers and increasing our own research and development capabilities, there could be a development gap if Sun Pharma chose to prioritize their internal projects over Caraco’s development projects. This could cause a gap in our research and development timelines until further increase of our own capabilities. This gap could possibly cause future growth deficits until resolved. We depend primarily on Sun Pharma for the active pharmaceutical ingredients that we use to manufacture our products. We typically purchase the active pharmaceutical ingredient (i.e. the chemical compounds that produce the desired therapeutic effect in our products) and other materials and supplies that we use in our manufacturing operations, as well as certain finished products from Sun Pharma. Sun Pharma could face supply issues or not be capable of supplying the raw material for certain products we manufacture. While we have begun the process of identifying and contracting with other third party suppliers, any disruption in Sun’s supply could cause lower sales or possibly lower margins until we negotiate with new suppliers and gain the requisite approvals to manufacture our product with a new raw material source. We maintain safety stocks in our raw materials inventory, and in certain cases where we have listed only one supplier in our applications with the FDA, Additionally, we have received and submitted for FDA approval to use alternative suppliers should the need arise. However, there is no guarantee that we will always have timely and sufficient access to a critical raw material or finished product. A prolonged interruption in the supply of a single-sourced raw material, including the active 14 ingredient, or finished product could cause our financial position and results of operations to be materially adversely affected, and the market value of our common stock could decline. In addition, our manufacturing capabilities could be impacted by quality deficiencies in the products which our suppliers provide. The Company utilizes controlled substances in certain of its current products and products in development and therefore must meet the requirements of the Controlled Substances Act of 1970 and the related regulations administered by the Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”). These regulations relate to the manufacture, shipment, storage, sale and use of controlled substances. The DEA limits the availability of the active ingredients used in certain of our current products and products in development and, as a result, our procurement quota of these active ingredients may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or complete clinical trials. We must annually apply to the DEA for procurement quota in order to obtain these substances. Any delay or refusal by the DEA in establishing our procurement quota for controlled substances could delay or stop our clinical trials or product launches, or could cause trade inventory disruptions for those products that have already been launched, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. A significant portion of our net sales are from sales to a limited number of customers. Should we lose a particular contract with a customer or the customer is acquired by a non-customer, our sales and operational results could face a significant decline. A significant portion of our net revenues are derived from sales to a limited number of customers. As such, a reduction in or loss of business with one customer, or if one customer were to experience difficulty in paying us on a timely basis, our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. One such agreement is with the Veterans Administration. The Company entered into a sales contract with the Veterans Administration effective August 5, 2002 to purchase a minimum of $13.0 million of product per year over a one year base contract period that ended June 30, 2003. The contract has four one-year option periods, the last of which was exercised in August 2006. Upon termination of this agreement, the Company must re-bid to renew this business. While we are hopeful that we will succeed in renewing this business, there can be no assurance that we will be successful. We manufacture our product line predominately from one FDA approved facility. There is a possibility that our production could be negatively impacted by a business disruption or closure of this facility Although we have access to other facilities, we currently produce our products at our facility in Detroit, Michigan. We carry a limited amount of finished goods on hand and much of our inventory is either work in progress or is in bulk amounts. Should we experience an act of God that closes our facility, or production is stopped or a power outage continues for an inordinate period of time, it would impair our ability to produce and ship products to the market on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. We must maintain adequate internal controls and be able to demonstrate, and provide, on an annual basis an assertion as to the effectiveness of such controls. Failure to maintain adequate internal controls or to implement new or improved internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Effective internal controls are necessary for the Company to provide reasonable assurance with respect to its financial reports. We spend a substantial amount of management time and resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and new SEC regulations and rules. In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control systems, and attestations as to the effectiveness of these systems by our independent registered public accounting firm. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. Additionally, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If the Company fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, including any 15 failure to implement required new or improved controls, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, and the market value of our common stock could decline. Any of these factors and others could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 