ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. This report contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, our forward-looking statements. Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates" and other similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "should," "would" and "could" are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Readers of this report should not rely solely on the forward-looking statements and should consider all uncertainties and risks throughout this report. The statements are representative only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement. All forward-looking statements, by their nature, are subject to risks and uncertainties. Our actual future results may differ materially from those set forth in our forward-looking statements. We face risks that are inherent in the businesses and the market places in which we operate. While management 15 Table of Contents believes these forward-looking statements are accurate and reasonable, uncertainties, risks and factors, including those described below, could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause the actual outcome and results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements include, but are not necessarily limited to the following: (i) adverse economic conditions could impact our ability to realize operating plans if the demand for our products declines, and such conditions could adversely affect our liquidity and ability to continue to operate; (ii) adverse economic conditions could cause the write down of long-lived assets; (iii) an increase in the cost or a decrease in the availability of our principal raw materials; (iv) changes in the competitive environment; (v) uncertainty of the timing of customer product qualifications in heavily regulated industries; (vi) economic, political, or regulatory changes in the countries in which we operate; (vii) difficulties, delays or unexpected costs in completing the restructuring plan; (viii) inability to attract, train and retain effective employees and management; (ix) inability to develop innovative products to maintain customer relationships and offset potential price erosion in older products; (x) exposure to claims alleging product defects; (xi) the impact of laws and regulations that apply to our business, including those relating to environmental matters; (xii) volatility of financial and credit markets affecting our access to capital; (xiii) needing to reduce the total costs of our products to remain competitive; (xiv) potential limitation on the use of net operating losses to offset possible future taxable income; (xv) restrictions in our debt agreements that limit our flexibility in operating our business; (xvi) additional exercise of the warrant by K Equity which could potentially result in the existence of a significant stockholder who could seek to influence our corporate decisions; and (xvii) recent events in Japan could negatively impact our sales and supply chain. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and could cause actual results to differ materially from those included, contemplated or implied by the forward-looking statements made in this report, and the reader should not consider the above list of factors to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties. Adverse economic conditions could impact our ability to realize operating plans if the demand for our products declines; and such conditions could adversely affect our liquidity and ability to continue to operate. While our operating plans provide for cash generated from operations to be sufficient to cover our future operating requirements, many factors, including reduced demand for our products, currency exchange rate fluctuations, increased raw material costs, and other adverse market conditions could cause a shortfall in net cash generated from operations. As an example, the electronics industry is a highly cyclical industry. The demand for capacitors tends to reflect the demand for products in the electronics market. Customers' requirements for our capacitors fluctuate as a result of changes in general economic activity and other factors that affect the demand for their products. During periods of increasing demand for their products, they typically seek to increase their inventory of our products to avoid production bottlenecks. When demand for their products peaks and begins to decline, they may rapidly decrease orders for our products while they use up accumulated inventory. Business cycles vary somewhat in different geographical regions, such as Asia, and within customer industries. We are also vulnerable to general economic events beyond our control and our sales and profits may suffer in periods of weak demand. TTI, Inc., an electronics distributor, accounted for over 10% of our net sales in fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009. If our relationship with TTI, Inc. were to terminate, we would need to determine alternative means of delivering our products to the end-customers served by TTI, Inc. Our ability to realize operating plans is also dependent upon meeting our payment obligations and complying with any applicable financial covenants under our debt agreements. If cash generated from 16 Table of Contents operating, investing and financing activities is insufficient to pay for operating requirements and to cover interest payment obligations under debt instruments, planned operating and capital expenditures may need to be reduced. Adverse economic conditions could cause the write down of long-lived assets. Long-lived assets and intangible assets subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. In the event that the test shows that the carrying value of certain long-lived assets is impaired, we would be required to take an impairment charge to earnings under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. However, such a charge would have no direct effect on our cash. An increase in the cost or decrease in the availability of our principal raw materials could adversely affect profitability. The principal raw materials used in the manufacture of our products are tantalum powder, palladium, aluminum and silver. These materials are considered commodities and are subject to price volatility. Due to market constraints, we no longer purchase tantalum powder under long-term contracts. Instead, we forecast our tantalum needs for the short-term (twelve weeks) and make purchases based upon those forecasts; we currently have purchase agreements outstanding for three to six months. While the financial impact of these decisions is short-term in nature given that we are not currently party to any long-term supply agreements, they could impact our financial performance from period to period given that we do not hedge any of our raw material exposure and we may be unable to pass any fluctuations in our raw material costs on to our customers. Additionally, any delays in obtaining raw materials for our products could hinder our ability to manufacture our products, negatively impacting our competitive position and our relationships with our customers. Presently, a finite number of suppliers process tantalum ore into capacitor-grade tantalum powder. If there are significant fluctuations in demand, based on leadtime of ore to tantalum smelter, an increase in the price of tantalum may result. If we are unable to pass the price increase on to our customers it could have an adverse affect on our profitability. Palladium is a precious metal used in the manufacture of multilayer ceramic capacitors and is mined primarily in Russia and South Africa. We continue to pursue ways to reduce palladium usage in ceramic capacitors in order to minimize the price risk. The amount of palladium that we require has generally been available in sufficient quantities; however the price of palladium is driven by the market which has shown significant price fluctuations. For instance, in fiscal year 2011 the price of palladium fluctuated between $415 and $855 per troy ounce. Price increases and the possibility of our inability to pass such increases on to our customers could have an adverse effect on profitability. Silver and aluminum have generally been available in sufficient quantities, and we believe there are a sufficient number of suppliers from which we can purchase our requirements. An increase in the price of silver and aluminum that we are unable to pass on to our customers, however, could have an adverse affect on our profitability. Changes in the competitive environment could harm our business. The capacitor business is highly competitive worldwide, with low transportation costs and few import barriers. Competition is based on factors such as product quality and reliability, availability, customer service, timely delivery and price. The industry has become increasingly consolidated and globalized in recent years, and our primary U.S. and non-U.S. competitors, some of which are larger than us, have significant financial resources. The greater financial resources of such competitors may enable them to commit larger amounts of capital in response to changing market conditions. Some 17 Table of Contents competitors may also have the ability to use profits from other operations to subsidize losses sustained in their businesses with which we compete. Certain competitors may also develop product or service innovations that could put us at a disadvantage. Uncertainty of the timing of customer product qualifications in heavily regulated industries could affect the timing of product revenues and profitability arising from these industries. Our capacitors are incorporated into products used in diverse industries. Certain of these industries, such as military, aerospace and medical, are heavily regulated, with long and sometimes unpredictable product approval and qualification processes. Due to such regulatory compliance issues, there can be no assurances as to the timing of product revenues and profitability arising from our product development and sales efforts in these industries. We manufacture many capacitors in Europe, Mexico and Asia and economic political or regulatory changes in any of these regions could adversely affect our profitability. Our international operations are subject to a number of special risks, in addition to the same risks as our domestic business. These risks include currency exchange rate fluctuations, differing protections of intellectual property, trade barriers, labor unrest, exchange controls, regional economic uncertainty, differing (and possibly more stringent) labor regulation, risk of governmental expropriation, domestic and foreign customs and tariffs, current and changing regulatory regimes, differences in the availability and terms of financing, political instability and potential increases in taxes. These factors could impact our production capability or adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We may experience difficulties, delays or unexpected costs in completing our restructuring plan. In the second quarter of fiscal year 2010, we initiated a restructuring plan designed to improve the operating performance of our Film and Electrolytic business group. However, any anticipated benefits of this restructuring activity will not be realized until future periods. We anticipate the plan will be completed in the second half of fiscal year 2014. We may not realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits of the restructuring plan without encountering difficulties, which may include complications in the transfer of production knowledge, loss of key employees and/or customers, the disruption of ongoing business and possible inconsistencies in standards, controls and procedures. We are party to collective bargaining agreements in certain jurisdictions in which we operate which could potentially prevent or delay execution of parts of our restructuring plan. Our inability to attract, train and retain effective employees and management could harm our business. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and certain other employees, many of whom have many years of experience with us and would be extremely difficult to replace. We must also attract and retain experienced and highly skilled engineering, sales and marketing and managerial personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense in our industry, and we may not be successful in hiring and retaining these people. If we lost the services of our executive officers or our other highly qualified and experienced employees or cannot attract and retain other qualified personnel, our business could suffer through less effective management due to loss of accumulated knowledge of our business or through less successful products due to a reduced ability to design, manufacture and market our products. 18 Table of Contents We must continue to develop innovative products to maintain relationships with our customers and to offset potential price erosion in older products. While most of the fundamental technologies used in the passive components industry have been available for a long time, the market is nonetheless typified by rapid changes in product designs and technological advances allowing for better performance, smaller size and/or lower cost. New applications are frequently found for existing technologies, and new technologies occasionally replace existing technologies for some applications or open up new business opportunities in other areas of application. We believe that successful innovation is critical for maintaining profitability in the face of potential erosion of selling prices for existing products and to ensure the flow of new products and robust manufacturing processes that will keep us at the forefront of our customers' product designs. Non-customized commodity products are especially vulnerable to price pressure, but customized products have also experienced price pressure in recent years. Developing and marketing new products requires start-up costs that may not be recouped if these products or production techniques are not successful. There are numerous risks inherent in product development, including the risks that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to develop and market new products and applications in a timely fashion to satisfy customer demands. If this occurs, we could lose customers and experience adverse effects on our results of operations. We may be exposed to claims alleging product defects. Our business exposes us to claims alleging product defects or nonconformance with product specifications. We may be held liable for, or incur costs related to, such claims if any of our products, or products in which our products are incorporated, are found to have caused end market product application failures, product recalls, property damage or personal injury. Provisions in our agreements with our customers and distributors which are designed to limit our exposure to potential material product defect claims, including warranty, indemnification, waiver and limitation of liability provisions, may not be effective under the laws of some jurisdictions. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product defect claims, we may incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of the merits or eventual outcome, defect claims could entail substantial expense and require the time and attention of key management personnel. Our commercial general liability insurance may not be adequate to cover all liabilities arising out of product defect claims and, at any time, insurance coverage may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If liability coverage is insufficient, a product defect claim could result in liability to us which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Even if we have adequate insurance coverage, product defect claims or recalls could result in negative publicity or force us to devote significant time and attention to those matters. Various laws and regulations that apply to our business, including those relating to environmental matters, could limit our ability to operate as we are currently and could result in additional costs. We are subject to various laws and regulations of federal, state and local authorities in the countries in which we operate regarding a wide variety of matters, including environmental, employment, land use, anti-trust, and others that affect the day-to-day operations of our business. The liabilities and requirements associated with the laws and regulations that affect us may be costly and time-consuming. There can be no assurance that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with such applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations, the suspension or revocation of permits and other enforcement measures that could have the effect of limiting our operations. If we are pursued for sanctions, costs or liabilities in respect of these matters, our operations and, as a result, our profitability could be materially and adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents We are subject to a variety of U.S. federal, state and local, as well as foreign, environmental laws and regulations relating, among other things, to wastewater discharge, air emissions, handling of hazardous materials, disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, and remediation of soil and groundwater contamination. We use a number of chemicals or similar substances, and generate wastes, that are considered hazardous. We are required to hold environmental permits to conduct many of our operations. Violations of environmental laws and regulations could result in substantial fines, penalties, and other sanctions. Changes in environmental laws or regulations (or in their enforcement) affecting or limiting, for example, our chemical uses, certain of our manufacturing processes, or our disposal practices, could restrict our ability to operate as we are currently operating or impose additional costs. In addition, we may experience releases of certain chemicals or discover existing contamination, which could cause us to incur material cleanup costs or other damages. Volatility of financial and credit markets could affect our access to capital. The continued uncertainty in the global financial and credit markets could impact our ability to implement new financial arrangements or to modify our existing financial arrangements. An inability to obtain new financing or to further modify existing financing could adversely impact the execution of our restructuring plans and delay the realization of the expected cost reductions. Our ability to generate adequate liquidity will depend on our ability to execute our operating plans and to manage costs in light of developing economic conditions. An unanticipated decrease in sales, or other factors that would cause the actual outcome of our plans to differ from expectations, could create a shortfall in cash available to fund our liquidity needs. Being unable to access new capital, experiencing a shortfall in cash from operations to fund our liquidity needs and the failure to implement an initiative to offset the shortfall in cash would likely have a material adverse effect on our business. We must consistently reduce the total costs of our products to remain competitive. Our industry is intensely competitive and prices for existing commodity products tend to decrease steadily over their life cycle. There is substantial and continuing pressure from customers to reduce the total cost of using our parts. To remain competitive, we must achieve continuous cost reductions through process and product improvements. We must also be in a position to minimize our customers' shipping and inventory financing costs and to meet their other goals for rationalization of supply and production. Our growth and the profit margins of our products will suffer if our competitors are more successful in reducing the total cost to customers of their products than we are. We must also continue to introduce new products that offer performance advantages over our existing products and can thereby achieve premium prices, offsetting the price declines in our more mature products. Our use of net operating losses to offset possible future taxable income could be limited by ownership changes. In addition to the general limitations on the carryback and carryforward of net operating losses under Section 172 of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"), Section 382 of the Code imposes further limitations on the utilization of net operating losses by a corporation following ownership changes which result in more than a 50 percentage point change in ownership of a corporation within a three year period. Therefore, the future utilization of our net operating losses may be subject to limitation for federal income tax purposes related to regular and alternative minimum tax. The issuance of the Platinum Warrant to K Financing, as described above, may be deemed to have been an "ownership change" for purposes of Section 382 of the Code. If such an ownership change is deemed to have occurred, the amount of our taxable income that can be offset by our net operating loss carryforwards in taxable years after the ownership change will be severely limited. While we believe 20 Table of Contents that the issuance of the Platinum Warrant did not result in an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 of the Code, there is no assurance that our view will be unchallenged. Moreover, the exercise of part or all of the Platinum Warrant may be deemed to have given rise to an ownership change in the future. The application of Section 382 of the Code now or in the future could limit a substantial part of our future utilization of available net operating losses. Such limitation could require us to pay substantial additional federal and state taxes and interest. Such tax and interest liabilities may adversely affect our liquidity and financial position. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. The agreement governing our new revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the Exchange Notes and certain of our other debt agreements contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our and our restricted subsidiaries' ability to, among other things: •incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred stock; •pay dividends on, or make distributions in respect of, capital stock or repurchase capital stock; •make certain investments or other restricted payments; •sell certain assets; •create liens or use assets as security in other transactions; •enter into sale and leaseback transactions; •merge, consolidate or transfer or dispose of substantially all of our assets; and •engage in transactions with affiliates. The agreement governing our new revolving credit facility also includes a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant that we must satisfy if an event of default occurs or in the event that we do not meet certain excess availability requirements under our new revolving credit facility. Our ability to comply with this covenant is dependent on our future performance, which may be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control. K Equity may obtain significant influence over all matters submitted to a stockholder vote, which may limit the ability of other shareholders to influence corporate activities and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As part of the consideration for entering into the Platinum Credit Facility, K Financing received the Platinum Warrant to purchase up to 26,848,484 shares of our common stock (subject to certain adjustments), representing 49.9% of our outstanding common stock at the time of issuance on a post-exercise basis. This Platinum Warrant was subsequently transferred to K Equity, an affiliate of K Financing. On December 20, 2010, K Equity sold a portion of the Platinum Warrant equal to 10,893,608 shares which was exercised on a net exercise basis and the resulting 10,000,000 shares of which were sold by underwriters in an offering, leaving a remainder of 15,954,876 shares subject to the Platinum Warrant. To the extent that K Equity exercises the remainder of the Platinum Warrant in whole or in part but does not sell all or a significant part of the shares it acquires upon exercise, K Equity may own up to 30.1% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, K Equity may have substantial influence over the outcome of votes on all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors, the adoption of amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and approval of significant corporate transactions. K Equity could also take actions that have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or discouraging others 21 Table of Contents from making tender offers for our shares, which could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. These actions make be taken even if other stockholders oppose them. Moreover, this concentration of stock ownership may make it difficult for stockholders to replace management. In addition, this significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. This concentration of control could be disadvantageous to other stockholders with interests different from those of our officers, directors and principal stockholders, and the trading price of shares of our common stock could be adversely affected. Recent events in Japan could negatively impact our sales and supply chain. To date, we have not experienced any decrease in our customers' demands for our products as a result of the recent earthquake and tsunami in Japan. However, these events might impact the supply chains of our customers which could result in delays or cancellations of orders by our customers. Such delays or cancellations would adversely affect our results of operations. We currently have enough supply on hand to meet our short term needs. However, we could experience supply shortages or delays in receiving supplies in the future due to the recent events in Japan. Such shortages or delays could impact our ability to meet our customers' demands. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 