ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Safe Harbor Statement From time to time, information provided by the Company, including but not limited to statements in this report or other statements made by or on behalf of the Company, may contain “forward-looking” information within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The Company’s actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. The cautionary statements set forth herein under the heading Safe Harbor Statement identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company intends that these 11 forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbor created by that provision. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties beyond the Company’s control. The inclusion of this forward-looking information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company that the future events, plans, or expectations contemplated by the Company will be achieved. Furthermore, past performance in operations and share price is not necessarily predictive of future performance. Finally, the Company cannot assume responsibility for certain information that is based upon market estimates. The Company wishes to caution readers that the following important factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, KEMET’s actual results and could cause KEMET’s actual consolidated results for the first quarter of fiscal year 2008 and beyond to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, the Company whether contained herein, in other documents subsequently filed by the Company with the SEC, or in oral statements: Cyclical changes in the electronics industry could result in significant fluctuations in demand for our products, reducing our profitability. Our products are used in the electronics industry, which is a highly cyclical industry. The demand for capacitors tends to reflect the demand for products in the electronics market. Our customers’ requirements for our capacitors fluctuate as a result of changes in general economic activity and other factors that affect the demand for their products. During periods of increasing demand for their products, they typically seek to increase their inventory of our products to avoid production bottlenecks. When demand for their products peaks and begins to decline, they may rapidly decrease orders for our products while they use up accumulated inventory. Business cycles vary somewhat in different geographical regions, such as Asia, and within customer industries. We are also vulnerable to general economic events beyond our control and our sales and profits may suffer in periods of weak demand. We must consistently reduce the total costs of our products to combat the impact of downward price trends. Our industry is intensely competitive and prices for existing products tend to decrease steadily over their life cycle. There is substantial and continuing pressure from customers to reduce the total cost of using our parts. To remain competitive, we must achieve continuous cost reductions through process and product improvements. We must also be in a position to minimize our customers’ shipping and inventory financing costs and to meet their other goals for rationalization of supply and production. Our growth and the profit margins of our products will suffer if our competitors are more successful in reducing the total cost to customers of their products than we are. We must also continue to introduce new products that offer performance advantages over our existing products and can thereby achieve premium prices, offsetting the price declines in our older products. An increase in the cost of our principal raw materials could adversely affect profitability. The principal raw materials used in the manufacture of our products are tantalum powder, palladium and silver. These materials are considered commodities and are subject to price volatility. Tantalum powder is primarily purchased under annual contracts, while palladium and silver are primarily purchased on the spot and forward markets, depending on market conditions. For example, if we believe that prices are likely to rise, we may purchase a significant amount of our annual requirements on a forward delivery basis. While the financial impact of these decisions are short-term in nature given that we are not currently party to any long-term supply agreements, they could impact our financial performance from period to period given that we do not hedge any of our raw material exposure and we are not likely to be able to pass on to our customers any fluctuations in our raw material costs. Additionally, any delays in obtaining raw 12 materials for our products could hinder our ability to manufacture our products, negatively impacting our competitive position and our relationships with our customers. Presently three suppliers process tantalum ore into capacitor-grade tantalum powder. Our management believes that the tantalum we require is generally available in sufficient quantities to meet our requirements and that there are a sufficient number of tantalum processors relative to foreseeable demand. However, the limited number of tantalum powder suppliers could lead to increases in tantalum prices that we may not be able to pass on to our customers. In fiscal year 2001, for instance, the increase in demand for tantalum capacitors led to tight supplies of tantalum raw material and some tantalum powders resulting in prices increasing from under $50 per pound early in calendar 2000 to over $300 per pound in calendar 2001. The average price of tantalum raw material at March 31, 2007 was over $175 per pound. Palladium is presently found primarily in South Africa and Russia. Although the palladium we require has generally been available in sufficient quantities, the limited number of palladium suppliers could lead to significant price fluctuations. For instance, in fiscal year 2001 the price of palladium fluctuated between $554 and $1,090 per troy ounce. Such price increases and our inability to pass such increases on to our customers could have an adverse effect on profitability. Silver has generally been available in sufficient quantities, and we believe there are a sufficient number of suppliers from which we can purchase our silver requirements. An increase in the price of silver that we are not able to pass on to our customers, however, could have an adverse affect on our profitability. We face intense competition in our business. The capacitor business is highly competitive worldwide, with low transportation costs and few import barriers. Competition is based on factors such as product quality and reliability, availability, customer service, timely delivery and price. The industry has become increasingly consolidated and globalized in recent years, and our primary U.S. and non-U.S. competitors, some of which are larger than we are, have significant financial resources. The greater financial resources of such competitors may enable them to commit larger amounts of capital in response to changing market conditions. Some competitors may also have the ability to use profits from other operations to subsidize losses sustained in their businesses with which we compete. Certain competitors may also develop product or service innovations that could put us at a disadvantage. We manufacture many of our capacitors in Portugal, Mexico and China and future political or regulatory changes in any of these countries could adversely affect our profitability. Although we have not experienced significant problems conducting operations in Portugal, Mexico or China, our international operations are subject to a number of special risks, in addition to the same risks as our domestic business, including currency exchange rate fluctuations, differing protections of intellectual property, trade barriers, labor unrest, exchange controls, regional economic uncertainty, differing (and possibly more stringent) labor regulation, risk of governmental expropriation, domestic and foreign customs and tariffs, current and changing regulatory regimes, differences in the availability and terms of financing, political instability and potential increases in taxes. These factors could impact our production capability or adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We may not be able to successfully integrate current or future acquisitions with our operations or identify attractive acquisition opportunities in the future. Because the markets and industries in which we operate are highly competitive, and due to the inherent uncertainties associated with the integration of acquired companies, we may not be able to integrate current or future acquisitions without encountering difficulties including, without limitation, the loss of key employees and customers, the disruption of the ongoing businesses and possible inconsistencies 13 in standards, controls and procedures. In addition, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost synergies from our purchase of any current or future acquisitions and we may incur higher than anticipated integration or restructuring costs associated with it. Our business strategy includes growth through select acquisitions of other businesses. However, acquisition opportunities may not be available or may not be attractively priced because of competition or other factors. In addition, we may be unable to fund an acquisition opportunity. Even if we are able to make acquisitions, we may be unable to successfully integrate such acquisitions into our existing operations and operational difficulties or diminished financial performance may result or a disproportionate amount of management’s attention may be diverted. Even if we are successful in integrating any future acquisitions, we may not derive the benefits, such as operational, cost or administrative synergies that we expect. Losing the services of our executive officers or our other highly qualified and experienced employees or our inability to continue to attract and retain additional qualified personnel could harm our business. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and certain other employees, many of whom have many years of experience with KEMET and would be extremely difficult to replace. We must also attract and retain experienced and highly skilled engineering, sales and marketing and managerial personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense in our industry, and we may not be successful in hiring and retaining these people. If we lose the services of our executive officers or our other highly qualified and experienced employees, or cannot attract and retain other qualified personnel, our business could suffer through less effective management due to loss of accumulated knowledge of our business or through less successful products due to a reduced ability to design, manufacture and market our products. Environmental laws and regulations could limit our ability to operate as we are currently operating and could result in additional costs. We are subject to a variety of U.S. federal, state and local, as well as foreign, environmental laws and regulations relating, among other things, to wastewater discharge, air emissions, handling of hazardous materials, disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, and remediation of soil and groundwater contamination. We use a number of chemicals or similar substances, and generate wastes, that are classified as hazardous. We require environmental permits to conduct many of our operations. Violations of environmental laws and regulations could result in substantial fines, penalties, and other sanctions. Changes in environmental laws or regulations (or in their enforcement) affecting or limiting, for example, our chemical uses, certain of our manufacturing processes, or our disposal practices, could restrict our ability to operate as we are currently operating or impose additional costs. In addition, we may experience releases of certain chemicals or discover existing contamination, which could cause us to incur material cleanup costs or other damages. We must continue to develop innovative products to maintain our relationships with our customers and to offset potential price erosion in older products. While most of the fundamental technologies used in the passive components industry have been available for a long time, the market is nonetheless typified by rapid changes in product designs and technological advances allowing for better performance, smaller size and/or lower cost. New applications are frequently found for existing technologies, and new technologies occasionally replace existing technologies for some applications or open up new business opportunities in other areas of application. We believe that successful innovation is critical for maintaining profitability in the face of potential erosion of selling prices for existing products and to ensure the flow of new products and robust manufacturing processes that will keep us at the forefront of our customers’ product designs. Non-customized commodity products are especially vulnerable to price pressure, but customized products have also experienced price 14 pressure in recent years. Developing and marketing new products requires start-up costs that may not be recouped if these products or production techniques are not successful. There are numerous risks inherent in product development, including the risks that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to develop and market new products and applications in a timely fashion to satisfy customer demands. If this occurs, we could lose customers and experience adverse effects on our results of operations. We may not achieve the expected benefits of our manufacturing relocation plan or other restructuring plans we have or may adopt in the future. In July 2003, we announced our manufacturing relocation plan to improve our position as a global leader in passive electronic technologies. Pursuant to the plan, we reorganized our operations around the world. Several of our facilities were relocated based on access to key customers, access to key technical resources and knowledge, and availability of low-cost resources. We have also undertaken several other restructuring actions over the last several years to reduce our costs and to make our operations more efficient. We anticipate two remaining moves associated with the manufacturing relocation plan, which are scheduled to be completed by the end of fiscal year 2008. To the extent we are unsuccessful in realizing the goals of any or all of these initiatives; we will not be able to achieve our anticipated operating results. Additionally, to the extent we embark on additional restructuring or repositioning programs, such initiatives may be unsuccessful and we may not achieve the expected benefits therefrom, though it is likely we would incur additional costs. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 