ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. This report contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, our forward-looking statements. Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates" and other similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "should," "would" and "could" are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Readers of this report should not rely solely on the forward-looking statements and should consider all uncertainties and risks throughout this report. The statements are representative only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement. All forward-looking statements, by their nature, are subject to risks and uncertainties. Our actual future results may differ materially from those set forth in our forward-looking statements. We face risks that are inherent in the businesses and the market places in which we operate. While management believes these forward-looking statements are accurate and reasonable, uncertainties, risks and factors, including those described below, could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause the actual outcome and results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements include, but are not necessarily limited to the following: (i) adverse economic conditions could impact our ability to realize operating plans if the demand for our products declines, and such conditions could adversely affect our liquidity and ability to continue to operate; (ii) adverse economic conditions could cause the write down of long-lived assets or goodwill; (iii) an increase in the cost or a decrease in the availability of our principal raw materials; (iv) changes in the competitive environment; (v) uncertainty of the timing of customer product qualifications in heavily regulated industries; (vi) economic, political, or regulatory changes in the countries in which we operate; (vii) difficulties, delays or unexpected costs in completing the restructuring plan; (viii) equity method investments expose us to a variety of risks; (ix) acquisitions and 16 Table of Contents other strategic transactions expose us to a variety of risks; (x) inability to attract, train and retain effective employees and management; (xi) inability to develop innovative products to maintain customer relationships and offset potential price erosion in older products; (xii) exposure to claims alleging product defects; (xiii) the impact of laws and regulations that apply to our business, including those relating to environmental matters; (xiv) subject to international laws relating to trade, export controls and foreign corrupt practices; (xv) volatility of financial and credit markets affecting our access to capital; (xvi) needing to reduce the total costs of our products to remain competitive; (xvii) potential limitation on the use of net operating losses to offset possible future taxable income; (xviii) restrictions in our debt agreements that limit our flexibility in operating our business; and (xix) additional exercise of the warrant by K Equity which could potentially result in the existence of a significant stockholder who could seek to influence our corporate decisions. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and could cause actual results to differ materially from those included, contemplated or implied by the forward-looking statements made in this report, and the reader should not consider the above list of factors to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties. Adverse economic conditions could impact our ability to realize operating plans if the demand for our products declines; and such conditions could adversely affect our liquidity and ability to continue to operate. While our operating plans provide for cash generated from operations to be sufficient to cover our future operating requirements, many factors, including reduced demand for our products, currency exchange rate fluctuations, increased raw material costs, and other adverse market conditions could cause a shortfall in net cash generated from operations. As an example, the electronics industry is a highly cyclical industry. The demand for capacitors tends to reflect the demand for products in the electronics market. Customers' requirements for our capacitors fluctuate as a result of changes in general economic activity and other factors that affect the demand for their products. During periods of increasing demand for their products, they typically seek to increase their inventory of our products to avoid production bottlenecks. When demand for their products peaks and begins to decline, they may rapidly decrease orders for our products while they use up accumulated inventory. Business cycles vary somewhat in different geographical regions, such as Asia, and within customer industries. We are also vulnerable to general economic events beyond our control and our sales and profits may suffer in periods of weak demand. TTI, Inc., an electronics distributor, accounted for over 10% of our net sales in fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010. If our relationship with TTI, Inc. were to terminate, we would need to determine alternative means of delivering our products to the end-customers served by TTI, Inc. Our ability to realize operating plans is also dependent upon meeting our payment obligations and complying with any applicable financial covenants under our debt agreements. If cash generated from operating, investing and financing activities is insufficient to pay for operating requirements and to cover interest payment obligations under debt instruments, planned operating and capital expenditures may need to be reduced. Adverse economic conditions could cause the write down of long-lived assets or goodwill. Long-lived assets and intangible assets subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. In the event that the test shows that the carrying value of certain long-lived assets is impaired, we would be required to take an impairment charge to earnings under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. However, such a charge would have no direct effect on our cash. 17 Table of Contents Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable. In the event that the test shows that the carrying value of goodwill is impaired, we would be required to take an impairment charge to earnings under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. However, such a charge would have no direct effect on our cash. An increase in the cost or decrease in the availability of our principal raw materials could adversely affect profitability. The principal raw materials used in the manufacture of our products are tantalum powder, tantalum ore, palladium, aluminum and silver. These materials are considered commodities and are subject to price volatility. In fiscal year 2012, we experienced significant raw material price fluctuations in the tantalum supply chain. We began the process of reducing the complexity and uncertainty of the tantalum raw material supply by vertically integrating our supply chain. The acquisition of Blue Powder, along with our ability to source and process conflict free tantalum ore, will allow us to achieve our vertical integration goal. Except for the processing of raw ore into potassium heptafluorotantalate, we now have the ability to manufacture the majority of our tantalum powder requirements. Given that we are not currently party to any long-term supply agreements for tantalum powder, this could impact our financial performance from period to period given that we do not hedge any of our raw material exposure and we may be unable to pass any fluctuations in our raw material costs on to our customers. Additionally, any delays in obtaining raw materials for our products could hinder our ability to manufacture our products, negatively impacting our competitive position and our relationships with our customers. Palladium is a precious metal used in the manufacture of multilayer ceramic capacitors and is mined primarily in Russia and South Africa. We continue to pursue ways to reduce palladium usage in ceramic capacitors in order to minimize the price risk. The amount of palladium that we require has generally been available in sufficient quantities; however the price of palladium is driven by the market which has shown significant price fluctuations. For instance, in fiscal year 2011 the price of palladium fluctuated between $563 and $833 per troy ounce. Price increases and the possibility of our inability to pass such increases on to our customers could have an adverse effect on profitability. Silver and aluminum have generally been available in sufficient quantities, and we believe there are a sufficient number of suppliers from which we can purchase our requirements. An increase in the price of silver and aluminum that we are unable to pass on to our customers, however, could have an adverse affect on our profitability. Changes in the competitive environment could harm our business. The capacitor business is highly competitive worldwide, with low transportation costs and few import barriers. Competition is based on factors such as product quality and reliability, availability, customer service, timely delivery and price. The industry has become increasingly consolidated and globalized in recent years, and our primary U.S. and non-U.S. competitors, some of which are larger than us, have significant financial resources. The greater financial resources of such competitors may enable them to commit larger amounts of capital in response to changing market conditions. Some competitors may also have the ability to use profits from other operations to subsidize losses sustained in their businesses with which we compete. Certain competitors may also develop product or service innovations that could put us at a disadvantage. 18 Table of Contents Uncertainty of the timing of customer product qualifications in heavily regulated industries could affect the timing of product revenues and profitability arising from these industries. Our capacitors are incorporated into products used in diverse industries. Certain of these industries, such as military, aerospace and medical, are heavily regulated, with long and sometimes unpredictable product approval and qualification processes. Due to such regulatory compliance issues, there can be no assurances as to the timing of product revenues and profitability arising from our product development and sales efforts in these industries. We manufacture many capacitors in Europe, Mexico and Asia and economic, political or regulatory changes in any of these regions could adversely affect our profitability. Our international operations are subject to a number of special risks, in addition to the same risks as our domestic business. These risks include currency exchange rate fluctuations, differing protections of intellectual property, trade barriers, labor unrest, exchange controls, regional economic uncertainty, differing (and possibly more stringent) labor regulation, risk of governmental expropriation, domestic and foreign customs and tariffs, current and changing regulatory regimes, differences in the availability and terms of financing, political instability and potential increases in taxes. These factors could impact our production capability or adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We may experience difficulties, delays or unexpected costs in completing our restructuring plan. In the second quarter of fiscal year 2010, we initiated a restructuring plan designed to improve the operating performance of Film and Electrolytic. However, any anticipated benefits of this restructuring activity will not be realized until future periods. We anticipate the plan will be completed in the second half of fiscal year 2015. We may not realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits of the restructuring plan without encountering difficulties, which may include complications in the transfer of production knowledge, loss of key employees and/or customers, the disruption of ongoing business and possible inconsistencies in standards, controls and procedures. We are party to collective bargaining agreements in certain jurisdictions in which we operate which could potentially prevent or delay execution of parts of our restructuring plan. The financial performance of our equity method investments could adversely impact our results of operations. From time to time we may make investments in businesses that we account for under the equity method of accounting. On March 12, 2012, we announced that we signed an agreement to pay an initial purchase price of $50 million to acquire a 34% economic interest with 51% of the common stock in NT. These businesses are subject to laws, regulations or market conditions, or have risks inherent in their operations, that could adversely affect their performance. We will not have the power to direct significant activities of our equity method investments. and therefore the performance of the investment may be negatively impacted. The interests of our partners may differ from the Company's, and they may cause such entities to take actions which are not in the Company's best interest. Any of these factors could adversely impact our results of operations and the value of our investment. Recent and future acquisitions and other strategic transactions expose us to a variety of operational and financial risks. On February 21, 2012, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Niotan. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of this transaction and future acquisitions will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate the acquired companies with our own. Our management will devote significant attention and resources to these efforts, which may disrupt the business of each of the companies and, 19 Table of Contents if executed ineffectively, could preclude realization of the full benefits we expect. Failure to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the operations of the acquired company. In addition, the efforts required to realize the benefits of our acquisitions may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships, the diversion of management's attention, and may cause our stock price to decline. The risks associated with such acquisitions and other strategic transactions include: •difficulties in integrating or retaining key employees of the acquired company; •difficulties in integrating the operations of the acquired company, such as information technology resources, and financial and operational data; •entering geographic or product markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; •difficulties in assimilating product lines or integrating technologies of the acquired company into our products; •disruptions to our operations; •diversion of our management's attention; •potential incompatibility of business cultures; and •the assumption of debt and other liabilities, both known and unknown. Many of these factors will be outside of our control, and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy. Additionally, we may finance acquisitions or future payments with cash from operations, additional indebtedness and/or the issuance of additional securities, any of which may impair the operation of our business or present additional risks, such as reduced liquidity or increased interest expense. Such acquisition financing could result in a decrease of our ratio of earnings to fixed charges. We may also seek to restructure our business in the future by disposing of certain of our assets, which may harm our future operating results, divert significant managerial attention from our operations and/or require us to accept non-cash consideration, the market value of which may fluctuate. Failure to implement our acquisition strategy, including successfully integrating acquired businesses, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to attract, train and retain effective employees and management could harm our business. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and certain other employees, many of whom have many years of experience with us and would be extremely difficult to replace. We must also attract and retain experienced and highly skilled engineering, sales and marketing and managerial personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense in our industry, and we may not be successful in hiring and retaining these people. If we lost the services of our executive officers or our other highly qualified and experienced employees or cannot attract and retain other qualified personnel, our business could suffer through less effective management due to loss of accumulated knowledge of our business or through less successful products due to a reduced ability to design, manufacture and market our products. We must continue to develop innovative products to maintain relationships with our customers and to offset potential price erosion in older products. While most of the fundamental technologies used in the passive components industry have been available for a long time, the market is nonetheless typified by rapid changes in product designs and technological advances allowing for better performance, smaller size and/or lower cost. New 20 Table of Contents applications are frequently found for existing technologies, and new technologies occasionally replace existing technologies for some applications or open up new business opportunities in other areas of application. We believe that successful innovation is critical for maintaining profitability in the face of potential erosion of selling prices for existing products and to ensure the flow of new products and robust manufacturing processes that will keep us at the forefront of our customers' product designs. Non-customized commodity products are especially vulnerable to price pressure, but customized products have also experienced price pressure in recent years. Developing and marketing new products requires start-up costs that may not be recouped if these products or production techniques are not successful. There are numerous risks inherent in product development, including the risks that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to develop and market new products and applications in a timely fashion to satisfy customer demands. If this occurs, we could lose customers and experience adverse effects on our results of operations. We may be exposed to claims alleging product defects. Our business exposes us to claims alleging product defects or nonconformance with product specifications. We may be held liable for, or incur costs related to, such claims if any of our products, or products in which our products are incorporated, are found to have caused end market product application failures, product recalls, property damage or personal injury. Provisions in our agreements with our customers and distributors which are designed to limit our exposure to potential material product defect claims, including warranty, indemnification, waiver and limitation of liability provisions, may not be effective under the laws of some jurisdictions. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product defect claims, we may incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of the merits or eventual outcome, defect claims could entail substantial expense and require the time and attention of key management personnel. Our commercial general liability insurance may not be adequate to cover all liabilities arising out of product defect claims and, at any time, insurance coverage may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If liability coverage is insufficient, a product defect claim could result in liability to us, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Even if we have adequate insurance coverage, product defect claims or recalls could result in negative publicity or force us to devote significant time and attention to those matters. Various laws and regulations that apply to our business, including those relating to environmental matters, could limit our ability to operate as we are currently and could result in additional costs. We are subject to various laws and regulations of federal, state and local authorities in the countries in which we operate regarding a wide variety of matters, including environmental, employment, land use, anti-trust, and others that affect the day-to-day operations of our business. The liabilities and requirements associated with the laws and regulations that affect us may be costly and time-consuming. There can be no assurance that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with such applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations, the suspension or revocation of permits and other enforcement measures that could have the effect of limiting our operations. If we are pursued for sanctions, costs or liabilities in respect of these matters, our operations and, as a result, our profitability could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to a variety of U.S. federal, state and local, as well as foreign, environmental laws and regulations relating, among other things, to wastewater discharge, air emissions, handling of hazardous materials, disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, and remediation of soil and groundwater contamination. We use a number of chemicals or similar substances, and generate wastes, that are considered hazardous. We are required to hold environmental permits to conduct many of our operations. Violations of environmental laws and regulations could result in substantial fines, penalties, 21 Table of Contents and other sanctions. Changes in environmental laws or regulations (or in their enforcement) affecting or limiting, for example, our chemical uses, certain of our manufacturing processes, or our disposal practices, could restrict our ability to operate as we are currently operating or impose additional costs. In addition, we may experience releases of certain chemicals or discover existing contamination, which could cause us to incur material cleanup costs or other damages. Our international sales and operations are subject to applicable laws relating to trade, export controls and foreign corrupt practices, the violation of which could adversely affect our operations. We must comply with all applicable export control laws and regulations of the United States and other countries. United States laws and regulations applicable to us include the Arms Export Control Act, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations ("ITAR"), the Export Administration Regulations ("EAR") and the trade sanctions laws and regulations administered by the United States Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC"). EAR restricts the export of dual-use products and technical data to certain countries, while ITAR restricts the export of defense products, technical data and defense services. The U.S. government agencies responsible for administering EAR and ITAR have significant discretion in the interpretation and enforcement of these regulations. We also cannot provide services to certain countries subject to United States trade sanctions unless we first obtain the necessary authorizations from OFAC. In addition, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-bribery laws that, generally, bar bribes or unreasonable gifts to foreign governments or officials. Violations of these laws or regulations could result in significant additional sanctions including fines, more onerous compliance requirements, more extensive debarments from export privileges, loss of authorizations needed to conduct aspects of our international business and criminal penalties and may harm our ability to enter contracts with customers who have contracts with the U.S. government. A violation of the laws or the regulations enumerated above could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Volatility of financial and credit markets could affect our access to capital. The continued uncertainty in the global financial and credit markets could impact our ability to implement new financial arrangements or to modify our existing financial arrangements. An inability to obtain new financing or to further modify existing financing could adversely impact the execution of our restructuring plans and delay the realization of the expected cost reductions. Our ability to generate adequate liquidity will depend on our ability to execute our operating plans and to manage costs in light of developing economic conditions. An unanticipated decrease in sales, or other factors that would cause the actual outcome of our plans to differ from expectations, could create a shortfall in cash available to fund our liquidity needs. Being unable to access new capital, experiencing a shortfall in cash from operations to fund our liquidity needs and the failure to implement an initiative to offset the shortfall in cash would likely have a material adverse effect on our business. We must consistently reduce the total costs of our products to remain competitive. Our industry is intensely competitive and prices for existing commodity products tend to decrease steadily over their life cycle. There is substantial and continuing pressure from customers to reduce the total cost of capacitors. To remain competitive, we must achieve continuous cost reductions through process and product improvements. We must also be in a position to minimize our customers' shipping and inventory financing costs and to meet their other goals for rationalization of supply and production. Our growth and the profit margins of our products will suffer if our competitors are more successful in reducing the total cost to customers of their products than we are. We must also continue to introduce new products that offer 22 Table of Contents performance advantages over our existing products and can thereby achieve premium prices, offsetting the price declines in our more mature products. Our use of net operating losses to offset possible future taxable income could be limited by ownership changes. In addition to the general limitations on the carryback and carryforward of net operating losses under Section 172 of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"), Section 382 of the Code imposes further limitations on the utilization of net operating losses by a corporation following ownership changes which result in more than a 50 percentage point change in ownership of a corporation within a three year period. If Section 382 applies, the post-ownership change utilization of our net operating losses may be subject to limitation for federal income tax purposes related to regular and alternative minimum tax. The application of Section 382 of the Code now or in the future could limit a substantial part of our future utilization of available net operating losses. Such limitation could require us to pay substantial additional income taxes and adversely affect our liquidity and financial position. We do not believe we have experienced an ownership change to date. However, the Section 382 rules are complex and there is no assurance our view is correct. For example, the issuance of a warrant (the "Platinum Warrant") in May 2009 to K Financing, LLC ("K Financing"), in connection with the entry into a credit facility (the "Platinum Credit Facility") with K Financing, may be deemed to have resulted in an "ownership change" for purposes of Section 382 of the Code. If such an ownership change is deemed to have occurred, the amount of our post-ownership change taxable income that could be offset by our pre-ownership change net operating loss carryforwards would be severely limited. While we believe that the issuance of the Platinum Warrant did not result in an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 of the Code, there is no assurance that our view will be unchallenged. Even if we have not experienced an ownership change to date, we are currently very close to the threshold for an ownership change and could experience an ownership change in the near future if there are certain significant purchases of our common stock or other events outside our control. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. The agreement governing our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the notes and certain of our other debt agreements contain various covenants that, subject to exceptions, limit our ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness; create liens on assets; make capital expenditures; engage in mergers, consolidations, liquidations and dissolutions; sell assets (including pursuant to sale leaseback transactions); pay dividends and distributions on or repurchase capital stock; make investments (including acquisitions), loans, or advances; prepay certain junior indebtedness; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; enter into restrictive agreements; amend material agreements governing certain junior indebtedness; and change lines of business. The agreement governing our revolving credit facility also includes a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant that we must satisfy if an event of default occurs or in the event that we do not meet certain excess availability requirements under our new revolving credit facility. Our ability to comply with this covenant is dependent on our future performance, which may be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control. K Equity may obtain significant influence over all matters submitted to a stockholder vote, which may limit the ability of other shareholders to influence corporate activities and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As part of the consideration for entering into the Platinum Credit Facility on May 5, 2009, K Financing received the Platinum Warrant to purchase up to 26,848,484 shares of our common stock (subject to certain adjustments), representing 49.9% of our outstanding common stock at the time of 23 Table of Contents issuance on a post-exercise basis. This Platinum Warrant was subsequently transferred to K Equity, an affiliate of K Financing. On each of December 20, 2010 and May 31, 2011, K Equity sold a portion of the Platinum Warrant equal to 10,893,608 shares which was exercised on a net exercise basis and the resulting 10,000,000 shares of which were sold by underwriters in an offering and 7,524,995 shares which was exercised on a net exercise basis and the resulting 7,000,000 shares of which were sold by underwriters in an offering, respectively, leaving a remainder of 8,429,881 shares subject to the Platinum Warrant. To the extent that K Equity exercises the remainder of the Platinum Warrant in whole or in part but does not sell all or a significant part of the shares it acquires upon exercise, K Equity may own up to 18.0% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, K Equity may have substantial influence over the outcome of votes on all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors, the adoption of amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and approval of significant corporate transactions. K Equity could also take actions that have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or discouraging others from making tender offers for our shares, which could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. These actions make be taken even if other stockholders oppose them. Moreover, this concentration of stock ownership may make it difficult for stockholders to replace management. In addition, this significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. This concentration of control could be disadvantageous to other stockholders with interests different from those of our officers, directors and principal stockholders, and the trading price of shares of our common stock could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 