Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this report, investors should consider carefully the following risk factors when evaluating the Company’s business. Revlon, Inc. is a holding company with no business operations of its own and is dependent on its subsidiaries to pay certain expenses and dividends. In addition, shares of the capital stock of Products Corporation, Revlon, Inc.’s wholly-owned operating subsidiary, are pledged by Revlon, Inc. to secure its obligations under the 2011 Credit Agreements and the 9 3/4% Senior Secured Notes. Revlon, Inc. is a holding company with no business operations of its own. Revlon, Inc.’s only material asset is all of the outstanding capital stock of Products Corporation, Revlon, Inc.’s wholly-owned operating subsidiary, through which Revlon, Inc. conducts its business operations. As such, Revlon, Inc.’s net income has historically consisted predominantly of its equity in the net income of Products Corporation, which for 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $71.2 million, $64.0 million and $324.3 million, respectively (which excluded $19.3 million, $7.4 million and $7.3 million, respectively, in expenses primarily related to Revlon, Inc. being a public holding company). Revlon, Inc. is dependent on the earnings and cash flow of, and dividends and distributions from, Products Corporation to pay Revlon, Inc.’s expenses incidental to being a public holding company and to pay any cash dividend or distribution on its Class A Common Stock in each case that may be authorized by Revlon, Inc.’s Board of Directors. 9 Table of Contents Revlon, Inc. expects that the regular quarterly dividends on shares of Revlon, Inc.’s Series A preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share (the “Preferred Stock”), will continue to be funded by cash interest payments to be received by Revlon, Inc. from Products Corporation on the Contributed Loan (the $48.6 million portion of the Amended and Restated Senior Subordinated Term Loan (as hereinafter defined) that was contributed to Revlon, Inc. by MacAndrews & Forbes in 2009). Additionally, Revlon, Inc. expects to pay the liquidation preference of the Preferred Stock on October 8, 2013 with the cash payment to be received by Revlon, Inc. from Products Corporation in respect of the maturity of the Contributed Loan. The payment of such interest and principal under the Contributed Loan to Revlon, Inc. by Products Corporation is permissible under the 2011 Credit Agreements, the Amended and Restated Senior Subordinated Term Loan Agreement and the indenture governing Products Corporation’s outstanding 9 3/4% Senior Secured Notes (the “9 3/4% Senior Secured Notes Indenture”). Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, Revlon, Inc. is permitted to pay dividends only from its “surplus,” which is the excess of its total assets over the sum of its liabilities plus the aggregate par value of its outstanding capital stock, or if Revlon, Inc. has no surplus, out of its net profits for the year in which a dividend is declared and for the immediately preceding fiscal year. Additionally, Revlon, Inc. is permitted to redeem the Preferred Stock only from its surplus. In the event that Revlon, Inc. fails to pay any required dividends on the Preferred Stock, the amount of such unpaid dividends will be added to the amount payable to holders of the Preferred Stock upon redemption. (See “The Preferred Stock ranks senior to Revlon, Inc.’s Common Stock and is subordinate to the Company’s indebtedness.”). Products Corporation may not generate sufficient cash flow to pay dividends or distribute funds to Revlon, Inc. because, for example, Products Corporation may not generate sufficient cash or net income; state laws may restrict or prohibit Products Corporation from issuing dividends or making distributions unless Products Corporation has sufficient surplus or net profits, which Products Corporation may not have; or because contractual restrictions, including negative covenants contained in Products Corporation’s various debt instruments, may prohibit or limit such dividends or distributions. The terms of the 2011 Credit Agreements, the 9 3/4% Senior Secured Notes Indenture and the Amended and Restated Senior Subordinated Term Loan Agreement generally restrict Products Corporation from paying dividends, advancing or making distributions to Revlon, Inc. except in limited circumstances (including, without limitation, that Products Corporation is permitted to pay dividends, advance and make distributions to Revlon, Inc. to enable Revlon, Inc., among other things, to pay expenses incidental to being a public holding company, including, among other things, professional fees such as legal, accounting and insurance fees, regulatory fees, such as SEC filing fees, NYSE listing fees and other expenses related to being a public holding company and, subject to certain limitations, to pay dividends, if any, on Revlon, Inc.’s outstanding securities or make distributions in certain circumstances to finance the purchase by Revlon, Inc. of its Class A Common Stock in connection with the delivery of such Class A Common Stock to grantees under the Third Amended and Restated Revlon, Inc. Stock Plan). This limitation therefore restricts Revlon, Inc.’s ability to pay dividends on its Class A Common Stock. All of the shares of the capital stock of Products Corporation held by Revlon, Inc. are pledged to secure Revlon, Inc.’s guarantee of Products Corporation’s obligations under the 2011 Credit Agreements and the 9 3/4% Senior Secured Notes Indenture. A foreclosure upon the shares of Products Corporation’s common stock would result in Revlon, Inc. no longer holding its only material asset and would have a material adverse effect on the holders of Revlon, Inc.’s Common Stock and Preferred Stock and would be a change of control under Products Corporation’s other debt instruments. (See “Shares of Revlon, Inc. Class A Common Stock and Products Corporation’s capital stock are pledged to secure various of Revlon, Inc.’s and/or other of the Company’s affiliates’ obligations and foreclosure upon these shares or dispositions of shares could result in the acceleration of debt under the 2011 Credit Agreements and the 9 3/4% Senior Secured Notes Indenture and could have other consequences”). Products Corporation’s substantial indebtedness could adversely affect the Company’s operations and flexibility and Products Corporation’s ability to service its debt. Products Corporation has a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness. As of December 31, 2012, the Company’s total indebtedness was $1,220.7 million, primarily including $788.0 million aggregate principal amount outstanding under the 2011 Term Loan Facility (as hereinafter defined), $330.0 million in aggregate principal face amount outstanding of Products Corporation’s 9 3/4% Senior Secured Notes and $58.4 million under the Non-Contributed Loan (as hereinafter defined). Also, Revlon, Inc. has $48.6 million in liquidation preference of Preferred Stock to be paid by Revlon, Inc. at the maturity of the Preferred Stock. While Revlon, Inc. achieved net income of $51.1 million and $53.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, 10 Table of Contents (which included non-cash benefits of $15.8 million and $16.9 million related to reductions of the Company’s deferred tax valuation allowance at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively), if the Company is unable to achieve sustained profitability and free cash flow in future periods, it could adversely affect the Company’s operations and Products Corporation’s ability to service its debt. The Company is subject to the risks normally associated with substantial indebtedness, including the risk that the Company’s operating revenues will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest, and the risk that Products Corporation will be unable to refinance existing indebtedness when it becomes due or that the terms of any such refinancing will be less favorable than the current terms of such indebtedness. Products Corporation’s substantial indebtedness could also have the effect of: • limiting the Company’s ability to fund (including by obtaining additional financing) the costs and expenses of the execution of the Company’s business strategy, future working capital, capital expenditures, advertising, promotional or marketing expenses, new product development costs, purchases and reconfigurations of wall displays, acquisitions, investments, restructuring programs and other general corporate requirements; • requiring the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on Products Corporation’s indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of the Company’s cash flow for the execution of the Company’s business strategy and for other general corporate purposes; • placing the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt; • limiting the Company’s flexibility in responding to changes in its business and the industry in which it operates; and • making the Company more vulnerable in the event of adverse economic conditions or a downturn in its business. Although agreements governing Products Corporation’s indebtedness, including the 2011 Credit Agreements, the 9 3/4% Senior Secured Notes Indenture and the Amended and Restated Senior Subordinated Term Loan Agreement, limit Products Corporation’s ability to borrow additional money, under certain circumstances Products Corporation is allowed to borrow a significant amount of additional money, some of which, in certain circumstances and subject to certain limitations, could be secured indebtedness. To the extent that more debt is added to the Company’s current debt levels, the risks described above may increase. Products Corporation’s ability to pay the principal of its indebtedness depends on many factors. The 2011 Term Loan Facility matures in November 2017, the 2011 Revolving Credit Facility matures in June 2016, the 9 3/4% Senior Secured Notes mature in November 2015, the Non-Contributed Loan under the Amended and Restated Senior Subordinated Term Loan matures in October 2014 and the Contributed Loan under the Amended and Restated Senior Subordinated Term Loan matures in October 2013. Products Corporation currently anticipates that, in order to pay the principal amount of its outstanding indebtedness upon the occurrence of any event of default, to repurchase its 9 3/4% Senior Secured Notes if a change of control occurs or in the event that Products Corporation’s cash flows from operations are insufficient to allow it to pay the principal amount of its indebtedness at maturity, the Company may be required to refinance Products Corporation’s indebtedness, seek to sell assets or operations, seek to sell additional Revlon, Inc. equity, seek to sell Revlon, Inc. debt securities or Products Corporation debt securities or seek additional capital contributions or loans from MacAndrews & Forbes or from the Company’s other affiliates and/or third parties. The Company may be unable to take any of these actions, because of a variety of commercial or market factors or constraints in Products Corporation’s debt instruments, including, for example, market conditions being unfavorable for an equity or debt issuance, additional capital contributions or loans not being available from affiliates and/or third parties, or that the transactions may not be permitted under the terms of the various debt instruments then in effect, such as due to restrictions on the incurrence of debt, incurrence of liens, asset dispositions and/or related party transactions. Such actions, if ever taken, may not enable the Company to satisfy its cash requirements or enable Products Corporation to comply with the financial covenants under the 2011 Credit Agreements if the actions do not result in sufficient savings or generate a sufficient amount of additional capital, as the case may be. None of the Company’s affiliates are required to make any capital contributions, loans or other payments to Products Corporation regarding its obligations on its indebtedness. Products Corporation may not be able to pay the principal amount of its indebtedness using any of the above actions because, under certain circumstances, the 9 3/4% Senior Secured Notes Indenture or any of its other debt instruments (including the 2011 Credit Agreements 11 Table of Contents and the Amended and Restated Senior Subordinated Term Loan Agreement) or the debt instruments of Products Corporation’s subsidiaries then in effect may not permit the Company to take such actions. (See “Restrictions and covenants in Products Corporation’s debt agreements limit its ability to take certain actions and impose consequences in the event of failure to comply”). The future state of the credit markets, including any volatility and/or tightening of the credit markets and reduction in credit availability, could adversely impact the Company’s ability to refinance or replace Products Corporation’s outstanding indebtedness at or prior to their respective maturity dates, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Restrictions and covenants in Products Corporation’s debt agreements limit its ability to take certain actions and impose consequences in the event of failure to comply. Agreements governing Products Corporation’s outstanding indebtedness, including the 2011 Credit Agreements, the 9 3/4% Senior Secured Notes Indenture and the Amended and Restated Senior Subordinated Term Loan Agreement, contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit Products Corporation’s ability (subject in each case to limited exceptions) to, among other things: • borrow money; • use assets as security in other borrowings or transactions; • pay dividends on stock or purchase stock; • sell assets and use the proceeds from such sales; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; • make certain investments; • prepay, redeem or repurchase specified indebtedness; and • permit restrictions on the payment of dividends by Products Corporation’s subsidiaries. In addition, the 2011 Credit Agreements contain financial covenants limiting Products Corporation’s first-lien senior secured debt-to-EBITDA ratio (in the case of the 2011 Term Loan Agreement) and, under certain circumstances, requiring Products Corporation to maintain a minimum consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio (in the case of the 2011 Revolving Credit Agreement). These covenants affect Products Corporation’s operating flexibility by, among other things, restricting its ability to incur expenses and indebtedness that could be used to fund the costs of executing the Company’s business strategy and to grow the Company’s business, as well as to fund general corporate purposes. A breach of the 2011 Credit Agreements would permit Products Corporation’s lenders to accelerate amounts outstanding under the 2011 Credit Agreements, which would in turn constitute an event of default under the Amended and Restated Senior Subordinated Term Loan Agreement and the 9 3/4% Senior Secured Notes Indenture, if the amount accelerated exceeds $25.0 million and such default remains uncured for 10 days following notice from (i) the holders of a majority of the outstanding principal amount of the Amended and Restated Senior Subordinated Term Loan (provided that if Revlon, Inc. or Products Corporation held such majority, notice would be required from the holders of a majority of the outstanding principal amount of the Amended and Restated Senior Subordinated Term Loan not held by Revlon, Inc. or Products Corporation at the time of any such decision) or (ii) the trustee or the holders of at least 30% of the outstanding principal amount of the notes under the 9 3/4% Senior Secured Notes Indenture. In addition, holders of Products Corporation’s outstanding 9 3/4% Senior Secured Notes may require Products Corporation to repurchase their respective notes in the event of a change of control under the 9 3/4% Senior Secured Notes Indenture. Upon a change of control, Products Corporation would be required, after fulfilling its repayment obligations under the 9 3/4% Senior Secured Notes Indenture, to repay in full the Amended and Restated Senior Subordinated Term Loan, provided that Revlon, Inc. at such time has redeemed or is then concurrently redeeming all of the Preferred Stock. (See “Products Corporation’s ability to pay the principal of its indebtedness depends on many factors”). Products Corporation may not have sufficient funds at the time of any such breach of any such covenant or change of control to repay in full the borrowings under the 2011 Credit Agreements or the Amended and Restated Senior Subordinated Term Loan Agreement or to repurchase or redeem its outstanding 9 3/4% Senior Secured Notes. 12 Table of Contents Events beyond the Company’s control could impair the Company’s operating performance, which could affect Products Corporation’s ability to comply with the terms of Products Corporation’s debt instruments. Such events may include decreased consumer spending in response to weak economic conditions or weakness in the cosmetics category in the mass retail channel; adverse changes in currency exchange rates and/or currency controls; decreased sales of the Company’s products as a result of increased competitive activities by the Company’s competitors; changes in consumer purchasing habits, including with respect to shopping channels; retailer inventory management; retailer space reconfigurations or reductions in retailer display space; changes in retailer pricing or promotional strategies; less than anticipated results from the Company’s existing or new products or from its advertising, promotional and/or marketing plans; or if the Company’s expenses, including, without limitation, for pension expense under its benefit plans, costs related to litigation, advertising, promotional and/or marketing activities or for sales returns related to any reduction of retail space, product discontinuances or otherwise, exceed the anticipated level of expenses. Under such circumstances, Products Corporation may be unable to comply with the provisions of Products Corporation’s debt instruments, including the financial covenants in the 2011 Credit Agreements. If Products Corporation is unable to satisfy such covenants or other provisions at any future time, Products Corporation would need to seek an amendment or waiver of such financial covenants or other provisions. The respective lenders under the 2011 Credit Agreements may not consent to any amendment or waiver requests that Products Corporation may make in the future, and, if they do consent, they may only do so on terms that are unfavorable to Products Corporation and/or Revlon, Inc. In the event that Products Corporation is unable to obtain any such waiver or amendment, Products Corporation’s inability to meet the financial covenants or other provisions of the 2011 Credit Agreements would constitute an event of default under the 2011 Credit Agreements, which would permit the bank lenders to accelerate the 2011 Credit Agreements, which in turn would constitute an event of default under the Amended and Restated Senior Subordinated Term Loan Agreement and the 9 3/4% Senior Secured Notes Indenture, if the amount accelerated exceeds $25.0 million and such default remains uncured for 10 days following notice from (i) in the case of the Amended and Restated Senior Subordinated Term Loan Agreement, the holders of a majority of the outstanding principal amount of the Amended and Restated Senior Subordinated Term Loan (provided that if Revlon, Inc. or Products Corporation held such majority, notice would be required from the holders of a majority of the outstanding principal amount of the Amended and Restated Senior Subordinated Term Loan not held by Revlon, Inc. or Products Corporation at the time of any such decision) or (ii) in the case of the 9 3/4% Senior Secured Notes Indenture, the trustee or the holders of at least 30% of the outstanding principal amount of the outstanding notes under the 9 3/4% Senior Secured Notes Indenture. Products Corporation’s assets and/or cash flow and/or that of Products Corporation’s subsidiaries may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under its outstanding debt instruments, either upon maturity or if accelerated upon an event of default, and if Products Corporation is required to repurchase its outstanding 9 3/4% Senior Secured Notes or repay the Amended and Restated Senior Subordinated Term Loan or repay the 2011 Credit Agreements upon a change of control, Products Corporation may be unable to refinance or restructure the payments on such debt. Further, if Products Corporation is unable to repay, refinance or restructure its indebtedness under the 2011 Credit Agreements and/or the 9 3/4% Senior Secured Notes, the lenders and the noteholders, as applicable, subject to certain conditions and limitations as set forth in the third amended and restated intercreditor agreement, could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. Limits on Products Corporation’s borrowing capacity under the 2011 Revolving Credit Facility may affect the Company’s ability to finance its operations. While the 2011 Revolving Credit Facility currently provides for up to $140.0 million of commitments, Products Corporation’s ability to borrow funds under this facility is limited by a borrowing base determined relative to the value, from time to time, of eligible accounts receivable and eligible inventory in the U.S. and the U.K. and eligible real property and equipment in the U.S. If the value of these eligible assets is not sufficient to support the full $140.0 million borrowing base, Products Corporation will not have full access to the 2011 Revolving Credit Facility, but rather could have access to a lesser amount determined by the borrowing base. As Products Corporation continues to manage its working capital, this could reduce the borrowing base under the 2011 Revolving Credit Facility. Further, if Products Corporation borrows funds under this facility, subsequent changes in the value or eligibility of the assets within the borrowing base could cause Products Corporation to be required to pay down the amounts outstanding so that there is no amount outstanding in excess of the then-existing borrowing base. 13 Table of Contents Products Corporation’s ability to borrow under the 2011 Revolving Credit Facility is also conditioned upon its compliance with other covenants in the 2011 Revolving Credit Agreement, including a fixed charge coverage ratio that applies when the difference between (1) the borrowing base under the 2011 Revolving Credit Facility and (2) the amounts outstanding under such facility is less than $20.0 million. Because of these limitations, Products Corporation may not always be able to meet its cash requirements with funds borrowed under the 2011 Revolving Credit Facility, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. At December 31, 2012, the 2011 Term Loan Facility was fully drawn, with $788.0 million aggregate principal amount outstanding, and the Company had a liquidity position of $237.6 million, consisting of cash and cash equivalents (net of any outstanding checks) of $108.0 million, as well as $129.6 million in available borrowings under the 2011 Revolving Credit Facility, based upon the calculated borrowing base less $10.4 million outstanding letters of credit and nil then drawn under the 2011 Revolving Credit Facility at such date. The 2011 Revolving Credit Facility is syndicated to a group of banks and financial institutions. Each bank is responsible to lend its portion of the $140.0 million commitment if and when Products Corporation seeks to draw under the 2011 Revolving Credit Facility. The lenders may assign their commitments to other banks and financial institutions in certain cases without prior notice to Products Corporation. If a lender is unable to meet its lending commitment, then the other lenders under the 2011 Revolving Credit Facility have the right, but not the obligation, to lend additional funds to make up for the defaulting lender’s commitment, if any. While Products Corporation has never had any of its lenders under the 2011 Revolving Credit Facility fail to fulfill their lending commitment, economic conditions from late 2008 through 2012 and the volatility in the financial markets during that time period have impacted the liquidity and financial condition of certain banks and financial institutions. Based on information available to the Company, the Company has no reason to believe that any of the lenders under Products Corporation’s 2011 Revolving Credit Facility would be unable to fulfill their commitments to lend as of December 31, 2012. However, if one or more lenders under the 2011 Revolving Credit Facility were unable to fulfill their commitment to lend, such inability would impact the Company’s liquidity and, depending upon the amount involved and the Company’s liquidity requirements, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to fund its operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. A substantial portion of Products Corporation’s indebtedness is subject to floating interest rates. A substantial portion of Products Corporation’s indebtedness is subject to floating interest rates, which makes the Company more vulnerable in the event of adverse economic conditions, increases in prevailing interest rates or a downturn in the Company’s business. As of December 31, 2012, $844.3 million of Products Corporation’s total indebtedness, or approximately 69% of Products Corporation’s total indebtedness, was subject to floating interest rates. Under the 2011 Term Loan Facility, loans bear interest, at Products Corporation’s option, at either the Eurodollar Rate (as defined in the 2011 Term Loan Agreement) plus 3.50% per annum (provided that in no event shall the Eurodollar Rate (which is based upon LIBOR) be less than 1.25% per annum), or the Alternate Base Rate (as defined in the 2011 Term Loan Agreement) plus 2.50% per annum, which Alternate Base Rate is based on the greater of Citibank, N.A.’s announced base rate and the U.S. federal funds rate plus 0.5% (provided that in no event shall the Alternative Base Rate be less than 2.25% per annum). At December 31, 2012, the Eurodollar Rate, LIBOR and the Alternate Base Rate were 1.25% (as a result of the Eurodollar Rate floor referred to above), 0.31% and 3.25%, respectively. Borrowings under the 2011 Revolving Credit Facility (other than loans in foreign currencies) bear interest at a rate equal to, at Products Corporation’s option, either (i) the Eurodollar Rate plus the applicable margin set forth in the grid below, or (ii) the Alternate Base Rate (as defined in the 2011 Revolving Credit Agreement) plus the applicable margin set forth in the grid below: Excess Availability Alternate BaseRate Loans Eurodollar Loans,EurocurrencyLoans or LocalRate Loans Greater than or equal to $92,000,000 1.00 % 2.00 % Less than $92,000,000 but greater than or equal to $46,000,000 1.25 % 2.25 % Less than $46,000,000 1.50 % 2.50 % 14 Table of Contents Local Loans (as defined in the 2011 Revolving Credit Agreement) bear interest, if mutually acceptable to Products Corporation and the relevant foreign lenders, at the Local Rate, and otherwise (i) if in foreign currencies or in U.S. dollars at the Eurodollar Rate or the Eurocurrency Rate plus the applicable margin set forth in the grid above or (ii) if in U.S. dollars at the Alternate Base Rate plus the applicable margin set forth in the grid above. Under the Amended and Restated Senior Subordinated Term Loan Agreement, the Non-Contributed Loan bears interest at a floating rate of LIBOR plus 7%, with a 1.5% LIBOR floor. If any of LIBOR, the base rate, the U.S. federal funds rate or such equivalent local currency rate increases, the Company’s debt service costs will increase to the extent that Products Corporation has elected such rates for its outstanding loans. Based on the amounts outstanding under the 2011 Credit Agreements, the Non-Contributed Loan and other short-term borrowings (which, in the aggregate, are Products Corporation’s only debt currently subject to floating interest rates) as of December 31, 2012, an increase in LIBOR of 1% would increase the Company’s annual interest expense by $8.5 million (assuming that the LIBOR Rate is above the respective floors for the 2011 Term Loan Facility and the Non-Contributed Loan). Increased debt service costs would adversely affect the Company’s cash flow. While Products Corporation may enter into interest hedging contracts, Products Corporation may not be able to do so on a cost-effective basis, any hedging transactions it might enter into may not achieve their intended purpose and shifts in interest rates may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The Company depends on its Oxford, North Carolina facility for production of a substantial portion of its products. Disruptions at this facility, or at other third party facilities at which the Company’s products are manufactured, could affect the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The Company produces a substantial portion of its products at its Oxford, North Carolina facility. Significant unscheduled downtime at this facility, or at other third party facilities at which the Company’s products are manufactured, whether due to equipment breakdowns, power failures, natural disasters, weather conditions hampering delivery schedules or other disruptions, including those caused by transitioning manufacturing from other facilities to the Company’s Oxford, North Carolina facility, or any other cause could adversely affect the Company’s ability to provide products to its customers, which could affect the Company’s sales, business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Additionally, if product sales exceed forecasts or production, the Company could, from time to time, not have an adequate supply of products to meet customer demands, which could cause the Company to lose sales. The Company’s new product introductions may not be as successful as the Company anticipates, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The Company has a rigorous process for the continuous development and evaluation of new product concepts, led by executives in marketing, sales, research and development, product development, operations, law and finance. Each new product launch, including those resulting from this new product development process, carries risks, as well as the possibility of unexpected consequences, including: • the acceptance of the new product launches by, and sales of such new products to, the Company’s retail customers may not be as high as the Company anticipates; • the Company’s advertising, promotional and marketing strategies for its new products may be less effective than planned and may fail to effectively reach the targeted consumer base or engender the desired consumption; • the rate of purchases by the Company’s consumers may not be as high as the Company anticipates; • the Company’s wall displays to showcase the new products may fail to achieve their intended effects; • the Company may experience out-of-stocks and/or product returns exceeding its expectations as a result of its new product launches or retailer space reconfigurations or reductions in retail display space or the Company’s net sales may be impacted by retailer inventory management or changes in retailer pricing or promotional strategies; 15 Table of Contents • the Company may incur costs exceeding its expectations as a result of the continued development and launch of new products, including, for example, advertising, promotional and marketing expenses, sales return expenses or other costs related to launching new products; • the Company may experience a decrease in sales of certain of the Company’s existing products as a result of newly-launched products; • the Company’s product pricing strategies for new product launches may not be accepted by its retail customers and/or its consumers, which may result in the Company’s sales being less than it anticipates; and • any delays or difficulties impacting the Company’s ability, or the ability of the Company’s suppliers, to timely manufacture, distribute and ship products, displays or display walls in connection with launching new products, such as due to inclement weather conditions or those delays or difficulties discussed under “The Company depends on its Oxford, North Carolina facility for production of a substantial portion of its products. Disruptions at this facility, or at other third party facilities at which the Company’s products are manufactured, could affect the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations’’ could affect the Company’s ability to ship and deliver products to meet its retail customers’ reset deadlines. Each of the risks referred to above could delay or impede the Company’s ability to achieve its sales objectives, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The Company’s ability to service its debt and meet its cash requirements depends on many factors, including achieving anticipated levels of revenue and expenses. If such revenue or expense levels prove to be other than as anticipated, the Company may be unable to meet its cash requirements or Products Corporation may be unable to meet the requirements of the financial covenants under the 2011 Credit Agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The Company currently expects that operating revenues, cash on hand, and funds available for borrowing under the 2011 Revolving Credit Agreement and other permitted lines of credit will be sufficient to enable the Company to cover its operating expenses for 2013, including cash requirements for the payment of expenses in connection with the continued execution of the Company’s business strategy, purchases of permanent wall displays, capital expenditure requirements, debt service payments and costs, tax payments, regularly scheduled pension and post-retirement plan contributions, payments in connection with the Company’s restructuring programs, severance not otherwise included in the Company’s restructuring programs, debt repurchases and costs related to litigation. If the Company’s anticipated level of revenue is not achieved, however, because of, for example, decreased consumer spending in response to weak economic conditions or weakness in the cosmetics category in the mass retail channel; adverse changes in currency exchange rates and/or currency controls; decreased sales of the Company’s products as a result of increased competitive activities by the Company’s competitors; changes in consumer purchasing habits, including with respect to shopping channels; retailer inventory management; retailer space reconfigurations or reductions in retailer display space; changes in retailer pricing or promotional strategies; less than anticipated results from the Company’s existing or new products or from its advertising, promotional and/or marketing plans; or if the Company’s expenses, including, without limitation, for pension expense under its benefit plans, costs related to litigation, advertising, promotional or marketing activities or for sales returns related to any reduction of retail space, product discontinuances or otherwise, exceed the anticipated level of expenses, the Company’s current sources of funds may be insufficient to meet its cash requirements. In addition, such developments, if significant, could reduce the Company’s revenues and could adversely affect Products Corporation’s ability to comply with certain financial covenants under the 2011 Credit Agreements. If operating revenues, cash on hand and funds available for borrowing are insufficient to cover the Company’s expenses or are insufficient to enable Products Corporation to comply with the financial covenants under the 2011 Credit Agreements, the Company could be required to adopt one or more of the alternatives listed below: • delaying the implementation of or revising certain aspects of the Company’s business strategy; • reducing or delaying purchases of wall displays or advertising, promotional or marketing expenses; 16 Table of Contents • reducing or delaying capital spending; • implementing new restructuring programs; • refinancing Products Corporation’s indebtedness; • selling assets or operations; • seeking additional capital contributions and/or loans from MacAndrews & Forbes, the Company’s other affiliates and/or third parties; • selling additional Revlon, Inc. equity or debt securities or Products Corporation debt securities; or • reducing other discretionary spending. There can be no assurance that the Company would be able to take any of these actions, because of a variety of commercial or market factors or constraints in Products Corporation’s debt instruments, including, for example, market conditions being unfavorable for an equity or debt issuance, additional capital contributions or loans not being available from affiliates and/or third parties, or that the transactions may not be permitted under the terms of Products Corporation’s various debt instruments then in effect, such as due to restrictions on the incurrence of debt, incurrence of liens, asset dispositions and/or related party transactions. If the Company is required to take any of these actions, it could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Such actions, if ever taken, may not enable the Company to satisfy its cash requirements or enable Products Corporation to comply with the financial covenants under the 2011 Credit Agreements if the actions do not result in sufficient savings or generate a sufficient amount of additional capital, as the case may be. (See “Restrictions and covenants in Products Corporation’s debt agreements limit its ability to take certain actions and impose consequences in the event of failure to comply” which discusses, among other things, the consequences of noncompliance with Products Corporation’s credit agreement covenants). Economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations or on the financial condition of its customers and suppliers. The economic conditions, both in the U.S. and in many other countries where the Company operates, have contributed and may continue to contribute to high unemployment levels, lower consumer spending and reduced credit availability, and have impacted business and consumer confidence. Such conditions could have an impact on consumer purchases and/or retail customer purchases of the Company’s products, which could result in a reduction of net sales, operating income and/or cash flows. Additionally, disruptions in the credit and other financial markets and economic conditions could, among other things, impair the financial condition of one or more of the Company’s customers or suppliers, thereby increasing the risk of customer bad debts or non-performance by suppliers. These conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The Company depends on a limited number of customers for a large portion of its net sales and the loss of one or more of these customers could reduce the Company’s net sales and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Walmart and its affiliates worldwide accounted for approximately 22% of the Company’s worldwide net sales in each of 2012, 2011 and 2010. The Company expects that for future periods, Walmart and a small number of other customers will, in the aggregate, continue to account for a large portion of the Company’s net sales. These customers have demanded, and may continue to demand, increased service and other accommodations. The Company may be affected by changes in the policies and demands of its retail customers relating to service levels, inventory de-stocking, pricing and promotional strategies or limitations on access to wall display space. As is customary in the consumer products industry, none of the Company’s customers is under an obligation to continue purchasing products from the Company in the future. The loss of Walmart or one or more of the Company’s other customers that may account for a significant portion of the Company’s net sales, or any significant decrease in sales to these customers, including as a result of retailer consolidation, retailer inventory management, changes in retailer pricing or promotional strategies or retailer space configurations or any significant decrease in the Company’s retail display space in any of these customers’ stores, could reduce the Company’s net sales and/or operating income and therefore could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Declines in the financial markets may result in increased pension expense and increased cash contributions to the Company’s pension plans. Declines in the U.S. and global financial markets could result in significant declines in the Company’s pension plan assets and result in increased pension expense and cash contributions to the Company’s pension plans. Interest rate levels will affect the discount rate used to value the Company’s year-end pension benefit obligations. One or more of these factors, individually or taken together, could impact future required cash contributions to the Company’s pension plans and pension expense. Any one or more of these conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The Company may be unable to maintain or increase its sales through the Company’s primary distribution channels, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. In the U.S., mass volume retailers and chain drug and food stores currently are the primary distribution channels for the Company’s products. Additionally, other channels, including prestige and department stores, television shopping, door-to-door, specialty stores, the internet, perfumeries and other distribution outlets, combine to account for a significant amount of sales of cosmetics and beauty care products. A decrease in consumer demand in the U.S. mass retail channel for color cosmetics, retailer inventory management, changes in retailer pricing or promotional strategies, a reduction in retailer display space and/or a change in consumers’ purchasing habits, such as by buying more cosmetics and beauty care products in channels in which the Company does not currently compete, could impact the sales of the Company’s products through these distribution channels, which could reduce the Company’s net sales and which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Competition in the cosmetics and beauty care products business could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The cosmetics and beauty care products business is highly competitive. The Company competes primarily by: • developing quality products with innovative performance features, shades, finishes and packaging; • educating consumers about the benefits of the Company’s products; • anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner, including the timing of new product introductions and line extensions; • offering attractively priced products, relative to the product benefits provided; • maintaining favorable brand recognition; • generating competitive margins and inventory turns for the Company’s retail customers by providing relevant products and executing effective pricing, incentive and promotion programs; • ensuring product availability through effective planning and replenishment collaboration with retailers; • providing strong and effective advertising, promotion, marketing and merchandising support; • maintaining an effective sales force; and • obtaining and retaining sufficient retail display space, optimal in-store positioning and effective presentation of the Company’s products at retail. An increase in or change in the current level of competition that the Company faces could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Company competes against a number of multi-national manufacturers, some of which are larger and have substantially greater resources than the Company, and which may therefore have the ability to spend more aggressively than the Company on advertising, promotions and marketing and have more flexibility than the Company to respond to changing business and economic conditions. In addition to products sold in the mass retail channel, the Company’s products also compete with similar products sold through other channels, including prestige and department stores, television shopping, door-to-door, specialty stores, the internet, perfumeries and other distribution outlets. 18 Table of Contents Additionally, the Company’s major retail customers periodically assess the allocation of retail display space among competitors and in the course of doing so could elect to reduce the display space allocated to the Company’s products, if, for example, the Company’s marketing strategies for its new and/or existing products are less effective than planned, fail to effectively reach the targeted consumer base or engender the desired consumption; and/or the rate of purchases by the Company’s consumers are not as high as the Company anticipates. Any significant loss of display space could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The Company’s foreign operations are subject to a variety of social, political and economic risks and have been, and are expected to continue to be, affected by foreign currency fluctuations and/or currency controls, which could adversely affect the results of the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations and the value of its foreign assets. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had operations based in 14 foreign countries and its products were sold throughout the world. The Company is exposed to the risk of changes in social, political and economic conditions, including inflation, inherent in operating in foreign countries, including those in Asia, Eastern Europe, Latin America (including Venezuela) and South Africa, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Such changes include changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in countries where the Company has operations, hyperinflation, currency devaluation, currency controls, changes in consumer purchasing habits including as to shopping channels, as well as, to a lesser extent, changes in U.S. laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment. The Company’s subsidiary in Venezuela (“Revlon Venezuela”) accounted for approximately 2%, 2% and 3% of the Company’s net sales for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Effective January 1, 2010, Venezuela was designated as a highly inflationary economy under U.S. GAAP and as a result of the hyperinflationary designation and devaluation of the local currency in Venezuela, the Company’s results of operations in 2010 were adversely impacted. Currency restrictions enacted by the Venezuelan government beginning in 2003 have impacted the ability of Revlon Venezuela to obtain U.S. dollars in exchange for local currency at the official foreign exchange rates. As a result, during 2011 and 2012, the Company used alternative foreign currency markets with less favorable exchange rates to access U.S. Dollars, which adversely impacted the Company’s results of operations. (See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources – Impact of Foreign Currency Translation – Venezuela” for details). The Company’s net sales outside of the U.S. for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 were approximately 44%, 45% and 45% of the Company’s total consolidated net sales, respectively. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have affected and may continue to affect the Company’s results of operations and the value of its foreign assets in 2012 and 2013, respectively, which in turn may adversely affect the Company’s reported net sales and earnings and the comparability of period-to-period results of operations. Products Corporation enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge certain net cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. The foreign currency forward exchange contracts are entered into primarily for the purpose of hedging anticipated inventory purchases and certain intercompany payments denominated in foreign currencies and generally have maturities of less than one year. At December 31, 2012, the notional amount of Products Corporation’s foreign currency forward exchange contracts was $43.9 million. The foreign currency forward exchange contracts that Products Corporation enters into may not adequately protect against foreign currency fluctuations. Terrorist attacks, acts of war or military actions may adversely affect the territories in which the Company operates and the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. On September 11, 2001, the U.S. was the target of terrorist attacks of unprecedented scope. These attacks contributed to major instability in the U.S. and other financial markets and reduced consumer confidence. These terrorist attacks, as well as terrorist attacks such as those that have occurred in Benghazi, Libya, Madrid, Spain and London, England, attempted attacks, military responses to terrorist attacks and future developments, or other military actions, may adversely affect prevailing economic conditions, resulting in reduced consumer spending and reduced demand for the Company’s products. These developments subject the Company’s worldwide operations to increased risks and, depending on their magnitude, could reduce net sales and therefore could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. 19 Table of Contents The Company’s products are subject to federal, state and international regulations that could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The Company is subject to regulation by the FTC and the FDA in the U.S., as well as various other federal, state, local and foreign regulatory authorities, including those in the EU, Canada and other countries in which the Company operates. The Company’s Oxford, North Carolina manufacturing facility is registered with the FDA as a drug manufacturing establishment, permitting the manufacture of cosmetics that contain over-the-counter drug ingredients, such as sunscreens and anti-perspirants. Regulations in the U.S., the EU, Canada and other countries in which the Company operates that are designed to protect consumers or the environment have an increasing influence on the Company’s product claims, ingredients and packaging. To the extent federal, state, local and/or foreign regulatory changes occur in the future, they could require the Company to reformulate or discontinue certain of its products or revise its product packaging or labeling, any of which could result in, among other things, increased costs to the Company, delays in product launches, product returns or recalls and lower net sales, and therefore could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The failure of the Company’s information technology systems could disrupt the Company’s business operations which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The operation of the Company’s business depends on its information technology systems. The Company relies on its information technology systems to effectively manage, among other things, the Company’s business data, communications, supply chain, inventory management, customer order entry and order fulfillment, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, human resources benefits and payroll management, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements and other processes and data necessary to manage the Company’s business. The failure of the Company’s information technology systems to perform as the Company anticipates could disrupt the Company’s business and could result in, among other things, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, loss of data and the loss of sales and customers, which could cause the Company’s business and results of operations to suffer. In addition, the Company’s information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond the Company’s control, including, without limitation, fire, natural disasters, power outages, systems failure, system conversions, security breaches, cyber-attacks, viruses and/or human error. In any such event, the Company could be required to make a significant investment to fix or replace its information technology systems, and the Company could experience interruptions in its ability to service its customers. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Shares of Revlon, Inc. Class A Common Stock and Products Corporation’s capital stock are pledged to secure various of Revlon, Inc.’s and/or other of the Company’s affiliates’ obligations and foreclosure upon these shares or dispositions of shares could result in the acceleration of debt under the 2011 Credit Agreements, the 9 3/4% Senior Secured Notes Indenture and the Amended and Restated Senior Subordinated Term Loan Agreement and could have other consequences. All of Products Corporation’s shares of common stock are pledged to secure Revlon, Inc.’s guarantee under the 2011 Credit Agreements and the 9 3/4% Senior Secured Notes. MacAndrews & Forbes has advised the Company that it has pledged shares of Revlon, Inc.’s Class A Common Stock to secure certain obligations of MacAndrews & Forbes. Additional shares of Revlon, Inc. and shares of common stock of intermediate holding companies between Revlon, Inc. and MacAndrews & Forbes may from time to time be pledged to secure obligations of MacAndrews & Forbes. A default under any of these obligations that are secured by the pledged shares could cause a foreclosure with respect to such shares of Revlon, Inc.’s Class A Common Stock, Products Corporation’s common stock or stock of intermediate holding companies between Revlon, Inc. and MacAndrews & Forbes. A foreclosure upon any such shares of common stock or dispositions of shares of Revlon, Inc.’s Class A Common Stock, Products Corporation’s common stock or stock of intermediate holding companies between Revlon, Inc. and MacAndrews & Forbes which are beneficially owned by MacAndrews & Forbes could, in a sufficient amount, constitute a “change of control” under the 2011 Credit Agreements, the 9 3/4% Senior Secured Notes Indenture and the Amended and Restated Senior Subordinated Term Loan Agreement. A change of control constitutes an event of default under the 2011 Credit Agreements, which would permit Products Corporation’s lenders to accelerate amounts outstanding under the 2011 Credit Facilities. In addition, holders of the 9 3/4% Senior Secured Notes may require Products Corporation to repurchase their respective notes under those 20 Table of Contents circumstances. Upon a change of control, Products Corporation would also be required, after fulfilling its repayment obligations under the 9 3/4% Senior Secured Notes Indenture, to repay in full the Amended and Restated Senior Subordinated Term Loan, provided that Revlon, Inc. at such time has redeemed or is then concurrently redeeming the Preferred Stock. Products Corporation may not have sufficient funds at the time of any such change of control to repay in full the borrowings under the 2011 Credit Facilities or to repurchase or redeem the 9 3/4% Senior Secured Notes and/or to repay the Contributed Loan that Revlon, Inc. expects to use to redeem the Preferred Stock and/or repay the Non-Contributed Loan. (See “The Company’s ability to service its debt and meet its cash requirements depends on many factors, including achieving anticipated levels of revenue and expenses. If such revenue or expense levels prove to be other than as anticipated, the Company may be unable to meet its cash requirements or Products Corporation may be unable to meet the requirements of the financial covenants under the 2011 Credit Agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations”). MacAndrews & Forbes has the power to direct and control the Company’s business. MacAndrews & Forbes is wholly-owned by Ronald O. Perelman. Mr. Perelman, through MacAndrews & Forbes, beneficially owned, at December 31, 2012, approximately 78% of Revlon, Inc.’s outstanding Class A and Class B Common Stock (representing approximately 77% of the combined voting power of Revlon, Inc.’s Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock and Preferred Stock). As a result, MacAndrews & Forbes is able to control the election of the entire Board of Directors of Revlon, Inc. and Products Corporation (as it is a wholly owned subsidiary of Revlon, Inc.) and controls the vote on all matters submitted to a vote of Revlon, Inc.’s and Products Corporation’s stockholders, including the approval of mergers, consolidations, sales of some, all or substantially all of the Company’s assets, issuances of capital stock and similar transactions. Delaware law, provisions of the Company’s governing documents and the fact that the Company is a controlled company could make a third-party acquisition of the Company difficult. The Company is a Delaware corporation. The General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware contains provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company. MacAndrews & Forbes controls the vote on all matters submitted to a vote of the Company’s stockholders, including the election of the Company’s entire Board of Directors and approval of mergers, consolidations, sales of some, all or substantially all of the Company’s assets, issuances of capital stock and similar transactions. The Company’s certificate of incorporation makes available additional authorized shares of Class A Common Stock for issuance from time to time at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors without further action by the Company’s stockholders, except where stockholder approval is required by law or any applicable NYSE requirements. The Company’s certificate of incorporation also authorizes “blank check” preferred stock, whereby the Company’s Board of Directors has the authority to issue shares of preferred stock from time to time in one or more series and to fix the voting rights, if any, designations, powers, preferences and the relative participation, optional or other rights, if any, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, of any unissued series of preferred stock, to fix the number of shares constituting such series, and to increase or decrease the number of shares of any such series (but not below the number of shares of such series then outstanding). This flexibility to authorize and issue additional shares may be utilized for a variety of corporate purposes, including future public offerings to raise additional capital and corporate acquisitions. These provisions and MacAndrews & Forbes’ control of the Company, may be construed as having an anti-takeover effect to the extent they would discourage or render more difficult an attempt to obtain control of the Company by means of a proxy contest, tender offer, merger or otherwise, which could affect the market price for the Company’s equity securities. Future sales or issuances of Common Stock or the Company’s issuance of other equity securities may depress the Company’s stock price or dilute existing stockholders. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of Common Stock, or the availability of Common Stock for future sales, will have on the market price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock. Sales in the public market of substantial amounts of Common Stock, including shares held by MacAndrews & Forbes, or investor perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prices for the Company’s Class A Common Stock. 21 Table of Contents In addition, as stated above, the Company’s certificate of incorporation makes available additional authorized shares of Common Stock for issuance from time to time at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors without further action by the Company’s stockholders, except where stockholder approval is required by law or NYSE requirements. The Company may also issue shares of “blank check” preferred stock or securities convertible into either common stock or preferred stock. Any future issuance of additional authorized shares of the Company’s Common Stock, preferred stock or securities convertible into shares of the Company’s Common Stock or preferred stock may dilute the Company’s existing stockholders’ equity interest in the Company. Such future issuances could, among other things, dilute the earnings per share of the Company’s Class A Common Stock and the equity and voting rights of those stockholders holding the Company’s Class A Common Stock or Preferred Stock at the time of any such future issuances and could dilute the consideration per share payable to holders of Class A Common Stock and Preferred Stock upon the occurrence of certain change of control transactions. There is no active listed trading market for Revlon, Inc.’s Preferred Stock and there can be no assurance that one will develop or be maintained. There can be no assurance that any market for the Preferred Stock will develop or, if one does develop, that it will be maintained. Revlon, Inc. has not applied, nor does it intend to apply, for listing of the Preferred Stock on any securities exchange. The liquidity of the trading market in the Preferred Stock, and the market price quoted for the Preferred Stock, may be materially adversely affected by: • changes in the overall market for preferred equity securities; • changes in the Company’s financial performance or prospects; • the prospects of other companies in the Company’s industry generally; • the number of holders of Preferred Stock; • the interest of securities dealers in making a market for Preferred Stock; and • prevailing interest rates. Revlon, Inc. may be restricted by the terms of the applicable provisions of Delaware law from paying dividends on the Preferred Stock and/or redeeming the Series A Preferred Stock. Under Delaware law, Revlon, Inc. is permitted to pay dividends only from its “surplus,” which is the excess of Revlon, Inc.’s total assets over the sum of its liabilities plus the aggregate par value of Revlon, Inc.’s outstanding capital stock, or if Revlon, Inc. has no surplus, out of its net profits for the year in which the dividend is declared and/or for the immediately preceding fiscal year. Revlon, Inc. cannot assure holders of the Preferred Stock that Revlon, Inc. will have any surplus or net profits so that it will be able to pay quarterly dividends on the Preferred Stock. Additionally, Revlon, Inc. is permitted to redeem its capital stock, including the Preferred Stock, only from its surplus. Revlon, Inc. cannot assure holders of the Preferred Stock that Revlon, Inc. will have any surplus at such time as it may be required to redeem the Preferred Stock. In the event that Revlon, Inc. fails to pay any required dividends on the Preferred Stock, the amount of such unpaid dividends will be added to the amount payable to holders of the Preferred Stock upon redemption. Holders of Preferred Stock will not participate in any future earnings or growth of the Company’s business. While holders of the Preferred Stock are entitled to regular quarterly dividends at an annual rate of 12.75% over the four-year term of the Preferred Stock, such holders will not benefit from increases, if any, in the value of the Company, including, without limitation, any increases due to a general economic recovery. The Preferred Stock ranks senior to Revlon, Inc.’s Common Stock and is subordinate to the Company’s indebtedness. The Preferred Stock ranks senior to Revlon, Inc.’s Common Stock and subordinate to all of the Company’s present and future indebtedness, including, without limitation, in the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. However, pursuant to the Amended and Restated Senior Subordinated Term Loan Agreement, such loan may not be repaid prior to its respective maturity dates (which is October 8, 2013 in the case of the Contributed Loan and which is October 8, 2014 in the case of the Non-Contributed Loan) unless all shares of Preferred Stock have been, or are being, redeemed and all payments due thereon have been, or are 22 Table of Contents being, paid in full. Accordingly, upon any such liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company prior to the respective maturity dates of the Amended and Restated Senior Subordinated Term Loan, all payments then due to: • debt holders (other than holders of the Amended and Restated Senior Subordinated Term Loan) will be made first; • holders of the Preferred Stock will be made next; and • holders of the Amended and Restated Senior Subordinated Term Loan will be made last. Dividends on the Preferred Stock are payable in cash quarterly on January 8, April 8, July 8 and October 8 of each year during the term of the Preferred Stock. Revlon, Inc. expects that it will continue to pay such dividends using the interest payments received by Revlon, Inc. from Products Corporation on the Contributed Loan. On October 8, 2013, Revlon, Inc. is required to redeem the Preferred Stock. Revlon, Inc. expects to pay the liquidation preference of the Preferred Stock on that date with the cash payment to be received by Revlon, Inc. from Products Corporation in respect of the maturity of the Contributed Loan. There can be no assurances that Products Contribution will have sufficient cash to pay the interest or repay the principal amount of the Contributed Loan when due or that Revlon, Inc. will have sufficient cash to pay dividends on the Preferred Stock or to redeem the Preferred Stock at the end of its four-year term. Holders of Revlon, Inc.’s capital stock are subject to future economic dilution in the event that Revlon, Inc. issues equity to third-parties who are not affiliated with MacAndrews & Forbes or to MacAndrews & Forbes on arms’ length terms. Revlon, Inc. is not prohibited from issuing equity to third parties or from issuing equity to MacAndrews & Forbes or its affiliates on arms’ length terms. In the event of any such issuance, holders of Revlon, Inc.’s capital stock, including the Preferred Stock and Revlon, Inc.’s Common Stock, will be economically diluted, and their participation in increases, if any, in the value of the Company will be proportionally diluted. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 Table of Contents 