ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS All of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the risks discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial could, in the future, materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and financial results. Risks Related to Our People Our failure to retain and recruit qualified professionals could negatively affect our financial results and our ability to staff client engagements, maintain relationships with clients and drive future growth. We deliver sophisticated professional services to our clients. To attract and retain clients, we need to demonstrate professional acumen and build trust and strong relationships. Our professionals have highly 22 Table of Contents specialized skills. They also develop strong bonds with the clients they serve. Our continued success depends upon our ability to attract and retain professionals who have expertise, reputations and client relationships critical to maintaining and developing our business. We face intense competition in recruiting and retaining highly qualified professionals to drive our organic growth and support expansion of our services and geographic footprint. As of December 31, 2008, we had written employment agreements with 174 of our 244 SMDs. These employment agreements expire between 2009 and 2018, with 45 expiring in 2011 and 31 expiring in 2012, primarily because of our 2006 and 2007 initiatives to renegotiate long term employment arrangements with certain SMDs who have been designated as participants in our SMD IC Program. We monitor contract expirations carefully to commence dialogues with professionals regarding their employment well in advance of the actual contract expiration dates. Our goal is to renew employment agreements when advisable and to stagger the expirations of the agreements if possible. Because of the high concentration of contract expirations in certain years, we may experience high turnover or other adverse consequences, such as higher costs, loss of clients and engagements or difficulty staffing engagements, if we are unable to renegotiate employment arrangements or the costs of retaining qualified professionals become higher. We cannot assure that we will be able to attract and retain enough qualified professionals to maintain or expand our business. Moreover, competition has been increasing our costs of retaining and hiring qualified professionals, a trend which could adversely affect our operating margins and financial results. We incur substantial costs to hire and retain our professionals and we expect these costs to continue and grow. We make unsecured general recourse forgivable loans and grant stock option and restricted stock awards to attract and retain our professional employees. In 2006, we implemented our SMD IC Program, which is designed to align the interests of our professionals with the interests of our company and its stakeholders. The cost of implementing and retaining our SMD IC Program has been significant. Participants receive cash payments in the form of unsecured general recourse forgivable loans. We also make forgivable loans to new hires and professionals who join us in connection with acquisitions as well as current employees on a case-by-case basis. Some or all of the principal amount and accrued interest of the loans we make to employees will be forgiven by us upon the passage of time, provided that the professional is an employee on the forgiveness date, and upon other specified events, such as death or disability or termination by us without cause or by the employee with good reason. We expect to continue issuing significant amounts of unsecured, general recourse, forgivable loans. We also provide significant additional payments under the SMD IC Program in the form of stock options and restricted stock awards or, alternatively, cash if we do not have adequate equity securities available under stockholder approved equity plans. We also anticipate making equity awards to management and other employees during 2009, which we are not able to estimate at this time but they may be significant. We rely heavily on our executive officers and the heads of our business segments for the success of our business. We rely heavily on our executive officers and the heads of our business segments to manage our segments and operations. Given the highly specialized nature of our services and the scale of our operations, our executive officers and senior managers must have a thorough understanding of our service offerings as well as the skills and experience necessary to manage a large organization. If one or more members of our management team leaves and we cannot replace them with suitable candidates quickly, we could experience difficulty in managing our business properly. This could harm our business prospects, client relationships, employee morale and financial results. We may not have, or may choose not to pursue, legal recourse against professionals who leave our company to form or join competitors. Our professionals typically have close relationships with the clients they serve, based on their expertise and bonds of personal trust and confidence. Although our clients generally contract for services with us as a company, 23 Table of Contents and not with individual professionals, in the event that professionals leave, such clients may decide that they prefer to continue working with a professional rather than with our company. Substantially all of our written employment arrangements with our SMDs include non-competition and non-solicitation covenants. These restrictions have generally been drafted to comply with state “reasonableness” standards. However, states generally interpret restrictions on competition narrowly and in favor of employees. Therefore, a state may hold certain restrictions on competition to be unenforceable. In the case of employees outside of the U.S., we draft non-competition provisions in an effort to comply with applicable foreign law. In the event an employee departs and acts in a way that we believe violates his or her non-competition or non-solicitation agreement, we will consider any legal remedies we may have against such person on a case-by-case basis. We may decide that preserving cooperation and a professional relationship with the former employee or client, or other concerns, outweigh the benefits of any possible legal recovery. We may also decide that our chance of success does not justify the costs of pursuing a legal remedy. Therefore, we may decide not to pursue legal action, even if it is available to us. Risks Related to Our Operations If we do not effectively manage the utilization of our professionals our financial results could decline. If we fail to manage the utilization of our professionals who bill on an hourly basis or maintain or increase the hourly rates we charge our clients for our services, we may experience adverse consequences, such as non- or lower-revenue-generating professionals, the loss of clients and engagements or the inability to appropriately staff engagements. In such event, our financial results may decline. A number of factors affect the utilization of our professionals. Some of these factors are not within our control, including general economic and financial market conditions, the number, size and timing of client engagements, our ability to forecast demand for our services and maintain an appropriate level of professionals, our ability to utilize professionals across segments, acquisitions and the hiring of new professionals and staff vacations. Factors that could negatively affect utilization in our Corporate Finance/Restructuring segment include the completion of bankruptcy proceedings, completion of current engagements, fewer and smaller bankruptcy cases, a strong economy, easy credit availability, low interest rates and a decline in merger and acquisition activity. Factors that could negatively affect utilization in our Forensic and Litigation Consulting segment include the settlement of litigation, fewer and less complex legal disputes, fewer class action suits, completion of engagements, less government regulation or fewer regulatory investigations and the timing of government investigations. Factors that could adversely affect utilization in our Economic Consulting segment include reductions in merger and acquisition activity, fewer regulatory filings and less litigation, reduced antitrust and competition regulation and fewer government investigations and proceedings. Our global expansion into new locations where we are not well known or where demand for our services is not well developed could also contribute to low or lower utilization rates in certain locations. We calculate the utilization rate for our professionals that bill on an hourly basis by dividing the number of hours worked on client assignments during a period by the total available working hours, assuming a 40-hour work week and a 52-week year. Available working hours include vacation and professional training days, but exclude holidays. The hourly rates we charge our clients for our services and the number of hours our professionals are able to charge our clients for our services are also affected by the level of expertise and experience of the professionals working on a particular engagement and, to a lesser extent, the pricing and staffing policies of our competitors. Our Strategic Communications segment derives revenues from fixed monthly fee and retainer based contracts. Factors that could adversely affect our Strategic Communications segment’s revenues include a decline in merger and acquisition activity, fewer event driven crises affecting businesses, fewer public securities offerings and general economic decline that may reduce certain discretionary spending by clients. Our Technology segment derives revenue from recurring licensing fees and the amount of data hosted for a client. Factors that could adversely affect our Technology segment’s revenues include the settlement of litigation and a decline in and less complex litigation proceedings and governmental investigations. In addition, lower priced competition could adversely affect the revenues of these segments. 24 Table of Contents Our international operations involve special risks. Primarily as a result of acquisitions, we operate in 22 countries in addition to the U.S. We expect to continue our international expansion, and our international revenues are expected to account for an increasing portion of our revenues in the future. In the year ended December 31, 2008, operations outside of the U.S. accounted for approximately 18% of our total revenues, of which approximately 65% were generated by our Strategic Communications segment. Our international operations involve financial and business risks that differ from or are in addition to those faced by our U.S. operations, including: • cultural and language differences; • limited “brand” recognition for FTI in non-U.S. markets; • employment laws and rules and related social and cultural factors that could result in lower utilization rates and cyclical fluctuations in utilization and revenues; • currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies could adversely affect financial and operating results; • different regulatory requirements and other barriers to conducting business; • greater difficulties in resolving the collection of receivables when legal proceedings are necessary; • greater difficulties in managing our non-U.S. operations in certain locations; • higher operating costs; • longer sales cycles; • restrictions or adverse tax consequences for the repatriation of earnings; • differing accounting principles and standards; • potentially adverse tax consequences, such as trapped foreign losses; • different or less stable political and economic environments; and • civil disturbances or other catastrophic events that reduce business activity. If we are not able to quickly adapt to our new geographic markets outside of the U.S., our business prospects and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Risks Related to Our Client Relationships If we are unable to accept client engagements due to real or perceived relationship issues, our revenues, growth, client engagements and prospects may be negatively affected. Our inability to accept engagements from clients or prospective clients, represent multiple clients in connection with the same or competitive engagements, and any requirement that we resign from client engagements may negatively impact our revenues, growth and financial results. While we follow internal practices to assess real and potential issues in the relationships between and among our clients, engagements, practices and professionals, such concerns cannot always be avoided. For example, we generally will not represent parties adverse to each other in the same matter. Under federal bankruptcy rules, we generally may not represent both a debtor and its creditors in the same proceeding, and we are required to notify the U.S. Trustee of real or potential conflicts. Even if we begin a bankruptcy-related engagement, the U.S. Trustee could find that we no longer meet the disinterestedness standard because of real or potential changes in our status as a disinterested party, and order us to resign, which could result in disgorgement of fees. Acquisitions may require us to resign from a current client engagement because of relationship issues that are not currently identifiable. In addition, businesses that we acquire or employees who join us may not be free to accept engagements they could have accepted prior to our acquiring them because of relationship issues. 25 Table of Contents Claims involving our services could harm our overall professional reputation and our ability to compete and attract business and hire and retain qualified professionals. Our engagements involve matters that may result in a severe impact on a client’s business, cause the client a substantial monetary loss or prevent the client from pursuing business opportunities. Our ability to attract new clients and generate new and repeat engagements depends upon our ability to maintain a high degree of client satisfaction as well as our reputation among industry professionals. As a result any claims against us involving the quality of our services may be more damaging than similar claims against businesses in other industries. We may incur significant costs and may lose engagements as a result of claims by our clients regarding our services. Many of our engagements involve complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including litigation and governmental investigatory matters where we act as experts. Our Technology segment may host or act as a repository for confidential and proprietary client information, the loss or disclosure of which could result in significant losses and damages. Therefore, we are subject to the risk of professional liability. We maintain a limited amount of liability insurance. Any claim by a client or a third party against us could expose us to professional or other liabilities in excess of the amount of our insurance limits. Damages and/or expenses resulting from any successful claims against us, for indemnity or otherwise, in excess of the amount of insurance coverage we maintain, would have to be borne directly by us and could harm our profitability, financial resources and reputation. Our clients may terminate our engagements with little or no notice and without penalty, which may result in unexpected declines in our utilization and revenues. Our engagements center on transactions, disputes, litigation and other event-driven occurrences that require independent analysis or expert services. Transactions may be postponed or cancelled, litigation may be settled or be dismissed, and disputes may be resolved, in each case with little or no prior notice to us. If we cannot manage our backlog, our professionals may be underutilized until we can reassign them or obtain new engagements, which can adversely affect financial results. Much of our business involves large client engagements that we staff with a substantial number of professionals. The engagement letters that we typically enter into with clients do not obligate them to continue to use our services. Typically, our engagement letters permit clients to terminate our services at any time without penalties. If clients unexpectedly cancel engagements with us or curtail the scope of our engagements, we may be unable to replace the lost revenues from those engagements, quickly eliminate costs associated with those engagements, or quickly find other engagements to utilize our professionals. Any decrease in revenues without a corresponding reduction in our costs will likely harm our profitability. We may not have, or may choose not to pursue, legal remedies against clients who terminate their engagements. The engagement letters that we typically have with clients do not obligate them to continue to use our services and permit them to terminate the engagement without penalty at any time. Even if the termination of an ongoing engagement by a client could constitute a breach of the client’s engagement agreement, we may decide that preserving the overall client relationship is more important than seeking damages for the breach, and for that or other reasons that are not currently identifiable, decide not to pursue any legal remedies against a client, even though such remedies may be available to us. We make the determination whether to pursue any legal actions against a client on a case-by-case basis. 26 Table of Contents Risks Related to Competition If we fail to compete effectively, we may miss new business opportunities or lose existing clients and our revenues and profitability may decline. The market for our consulting services is highly competitive. Our competitors range from large organizations, such as the global accounting firms and the large management and financial consulting companies that offer a broad range of consulting services, to small firms and independent contractors that focus on specialized services. Some of our competitors have significantly more financial resources, a larger national or international presence, larger professional staffs and greater brand recognition than we do. Some have lower overhead and other costs and can compete through lower cost service offerings. Since our business depends in large part on professional relationships, our business has low barriers of entry for professionals wanting to start their own firms or work independently. In addition, it is relatively easy for professionals to change employers. If we cannot compete effectively with our competitors or if the costs of competing, including the costs of retaining and hiring professionals, becomes too expensive, our expected revenue growth and financial results may differ materially from our expectations. We may face competition from parties who sell us their businesses and from professionals who cease working for us. In connection with our acquisitions, we generally obtain non-solicitation agreements from the professionals we hire, as well as non-competition agreements from senior managers and professionals. The agreements prohibit such individuals from competing with us during the term of their employment and for a fixed period afterwards and seeking to solicit our employees or clients. In some cases, but not all, we may obtain non-competition or non-solicitation agreements from parties who sell us their business or assets. The duration of post-employment non-competition and non-solicitation agreements typically range from six- to 12-months. Non-competition agreements with the sellers of businesses or assets that we acquire may continue longer than 12 months. Certain activities may be carved out of or otherwise may not be prohibited by these arrangements. We cannot assure that one or more of the parties from whom we acquire assets or a business and who do not join us or leave our employment will not compete with us or solicit our employees or clients in the future. Such persons, because they have worked for our company or a business that we acquire, may be able to compete more effectively with us, or be more successful in soliciting our employees and clients, than unaffiliated third parties. Risks Relating to our Acquisition Strategy If we fail to find suitable acquisition candidates, or if we are unable to take advantage of opportunistic acquisition situations, our ability to expand our business may be slowed or curtailed. If the competition for acquisitions increases, or if the cost of acquiring businesses or assets becomes too expensive, the number of suitable acquisition opportunities may decline, the cost of making an acquisition may increase or we may be forced to agree to less advantageous acquisition terms for the companies that we are able to acquire. Alternatively, at the time an acquisition opportunity presents itself, internal and external pressures (including, but not limited to, borrowing capacity under our amended and restated senior secured bank credit facility or the availability of alternative financing), may cause us to be unable to pursue or complete an acquisition. Our ability to grow our business, particularly through acquisitions, may depend on our ability to raise capital by selling equity or debt securities or obtaining additional debt financing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing when we need it or on terms acceptable to us. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to grow our business or expand our client offerings as quickly as we have in the past or as we currently plan. 27 Table of Contents We may have difficulty integrating our acquisitions or convincing clients to allow assignment of their engagements to us, which can reduce the benefits we receive from acquisitions. A substantial amount of our growth has resulted from acquisitions. The process of managing and integrating our acquisitions into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial, operational and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the operation, development and expansion of our existing business. To the extent that we misjudge our ability to integrate and properly manage acquisitions, we may have difficulty achieving our operating, strategic and financial objectives. Acquisitions also may involve a number of special financial, business and operational risks, such as: • difficulties in integrating diverse corporate cultures and management styles; • disparate company policies and practices; • client relationship issues; • decreased utilization during the integration process; • loss of key existing or acquired personnel; • increased costs to improve or coordinate managerial, operational, financial and administrative systems; • dilutive issuances of equity securities, including convertible debt securities to finance acquisitions; • the assumption of legal liabilities; • amortization of acquired intangible assets; • future earn-out payments or other price adjustments; and • potential write-offs relating to the impairment of goodwill. In addition to the integration challenges mentioned above, our acquisitions of non-U.S. companies offer distinct integration challenges relating to non-U.S. GAAP financial reporting, foreign laws and governmental regulations, including tax and employee benefit laws, and other factors relating to operating in countries other than the U.S., which have been discussed above in the discussion regarding the difficulties we may face operating globally. Asset transactions may require us to seek client consents to the assignment of their engagements to us or a subsidiary. All clients may not consent to an assignment. In certain cases, such as government contracts and bankruptcy engagements, the consents of clients cannot be solicited until after the acquisition has closed. Further, such engagements may be subject to security clearance requirements or bidding provisions with which we might not be able to comply. There is no assurance that local, state, federal or foreign governments will agree to novate their contracts to us. Strategic acquisitions in the Technology segment may not be accretive in the near term. To compete for strategic acquisitions that complement our Technology segment, competitive market conditions may require us to pay prices that represent a higher multiple of revenues or profits than acquisitions we make in other business sectors. Because technology companies often are high-growth businesses, they typically can command higher purchase price multiples. As a result of these competitive dynamics, certain acquisitions with strategic importance to the future growth and profitability of our Technology segment may not be accretive to our overall financial results in the near term. We may have a different system of governance and management from the companies we acquire or their parents, which could cause professionals who join us from acquired companies to leave us. Our governance and management practices and policies do not mirror the policies and practices of acquired companies or their parents. In some cases, different management practices and policies may lead to workplace 28 Table of Contents dissatisfaction on the part of acquired professionals. Some professionals may choose not to join our company or leave after joining us. Existing professionals may leave us as well. The loss of key professionals may harm our business and results of operations and cause us not to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Acquisition candidates may be reluctant to accept shares of our common stock as purchase price consideration and we may have to issue a greater number of shares due to stock price fluctuations or structure alternative consideration and certain companies we acquire and their principals may negotiate stock price guarantees. We structure many acquisitions to pay a portion of the purchase price in shares of our common stock. The number of shares issued as consideration is typically based on an average closing price per share of our common stock for a number of days prior to the closing of such acquisition. We believe that payment in the form of FTI shares of common stock provides the acquired entity and its principals with a vested interest in the future success of the acquisition and FTI. The recent extreme volatility of stock markets and the recent decline and volatility of the price per share of FTI common stock may result in acquisition candidates being reluctant to accept our shares as consideration. In such cases, we may have to issue more shares, if stock constitutes part of the consideration, pay the entire purchase price in cash, or negotiate an alternative price structure. The result may be an increase in the cost of an acquisition. Certain acquisition related agreements contain stock price guarantees that may result in cash payments in the future if our price per share falls below a specified per share market value on the date restrictions lapse. Acquisition candidates may continue to negotiate stock value guarantees, particularly in light of our recent stock price volatility. Risks Related to Our Business Segments Changes in capital markets, merger and acquisition activity and legal or regulatory requirements and general economic or other factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services, in which case our revenues and profitability could decline. A number of factors outside of our control affect demand for our services. These include: • the U.S. and global economy; • the U.S. and global financial markets, including the availability, costs and terms of credit; • the level of leverage incurred by companies; • over-expansion by businesses; • merger and acquisition activity; • business and management crises; • new and complex laws and regulations; • other economic and geographic factors; and • general business conditions. For example, our Corporate Finance/Restructuring segment provides various restructuring and restructuring-related services to companies in financial distress or their creditors or other stakeholders. In 2008, as the U.S. and global economic decline took hold and accelerated, we saw an increase in large bankruptcy and restructuring transactions. That reversed the trend that the segment had been experiencing between 2005 and 2007, which saw a decline in large cases and resulted in a greater portion of that segment’s business being comprised of bankruptcy and restructuring engagements involving mid-size companies. In our experience, mid-size bankruptcy and restructuring engagements are more susceptible to cyclical factors such as holidays and vacations and lower utilization during those periods. Crisis situations that are outside our control also drive demand for the services of our four other business segments. For example, decreases in litigation filings, class action suits and regulatory investigations and settlements of proceedings may adversely affect our Forensic and Litigation Consulting and Technology segments. A decline in mega-merger and acquisition transactions and public stock offerings may adversely affect our Strategic Communications segment. A decline in merger and acquisition activity or mega-acquisitions may 29 Table of Contents adversely affect our Economic Consulting segment, which provides antitrust and competition advice and damages consulting. We are not able to predict the positive or negative effects that future events or changes to the U.S. or global economy, financial markets and business environment could have on our operations. Changes to any of the factors described above as well as other events, including by way of example, continuing contractions of world economies, banking and credit markets and real estate and retail industries, the enactment of tort reform, changes to laws and regulations, including changes to the bankruptcy code and a decline in government enforcement or litigation or monetary damages or remedies that are sought, may have adverse effects on one or more of our segments. We may not manage our growth effectively and our profitability may suffer. We have experienced rapid growth in recent years. This rapid expansion of our business may strain our management team, human resources and information systems. We cannot assure that we can successfully manage the integration of the companies and assets we acquire or that they will result in the financial, operational and other benefits that we anticipate. To manage our growth successfully, we may need to add qualified managers and employees and periodically update our operating, financial and other systems, as well as our internal procedures and controls. We also must effectively motivate, train and manage a larger professional staff. Some acquisitions may not be immediately accretive to earnings and some expansion may result in significant expenditures, which may adversely affect profitability in the near term. If we fail to add qualified managers and employees, estimate costs or manage our growth effectively, our business, financial results and financial condition may be harmed. Our revenues, operating income and cash flows are likely to fluctuate. We have experienced periodic fluctuations in our revenues, operating income and cash flows and expect that this will continue to occur in the future. We experience fluctuations in our annual or quarterly revenues and operating income because of the timing of our client assignments, utilization of our revenue-generating professionals, the types of assignments we are working on at different times, new hiring, business and asset acquisitions and decreased productivity because of vacations taken by our professionals. Our profitability is likely to decline if we experience an unexpected variation in the number or timing of client assignments or in the utilization rates of our professionals, especially during the third quarter when substantial numbers of our professionals take vacations. We may also experience future fluctuations in our cash flows because of increases in employee compensation, including changes to our incentive compensation structure and the timing of incentive payments, which we generally pay during the first quarter of each year. Also, the timing of future acquisitions and the cost of integrating them may cause fluctuations in our operating results. Our segments may face risks of fee non-payment, clients may seek to renegotiate existing fees and contract arrangements, and clients may not accept billable rate increases, which could result in loss of clients, fee write-offs, reduced revenues and less profitable business. Our segments are engaged by clients who are experiencing or anticipate experiencing financial distress or are facing complex challenges that could result in financial liabilities. This is particularly true in light of the current economy and the credit and real estate crises. Such clients may not have sufficient funds to continue operations or to pay for our services. We typically do not receive retainers before we begin performing services on a client’s behalf in connection with a significant number of engagements in our Forensic and Litigation Consulting and Economic Consulting segments and with respect to bankruptcy engagements in our Corporate Finance/Restructuring segment. In the cases where we have received retainers, we cannot assure the retainers will adequately cover our fees for the services we perform on behalf of these clients. With respect to bankruptcy cases, bankruptcy courts have the discretion to require us to return all, or a portion of, our fees. We have received requests to discount our fees or to negotiate lower rates for our services and to agree to contract terms relative to the scope of services and other terms that may limit the size of an engagement or our ability to pass through costs. We consider these requests on a case-by-case basis. We have been experiencing these types of 30 Table of Contents requests and negotiations more frequently as the economy has deteriorated. In addition, our clients and prospective clients may not accept rate increases that we have recently put into effect or plan to implement in the future. Fee discounts, pressure to not increase or even decrease our rates and less advantageous contract terms, could result in the loss of clients, lower revenues and operating income, higher costs and less profitable engagements. More write-offs than we expect in any period would have a negative impact on our results of operations. There is no assurance that client engagements will be renewed or replaced in a timely manner or if at all, or that engagements will generate the same volume of work or revenues, and be as profitable as past engagements. The Technology segment provides a high volume of services to certain of its clients. In 2008, two clients of the Technology segment each accounted for more than 10% of that segment’s revenues. The loss of any one of these clients or a substantial decrease in that business could have a material adverse effect on the Technology segment if that business was not quickly replaced. Our Technology segment has recently experienced significant price competition from lower cost competitors. Our Technology segment faces certain risks, including the risk that (i) its proprietary software products may be subject to technological changes and obsolescence, which would make it more difficult for us to compete, and (ii) we may not effectively protect the intellectual property used by that segment. The software and products of our Technology segment are subject to rapid technological innovation. There is no assurance that we will successfully develop new versions of our Ringtail® and Attenex® software, or other products. Our software may not keep pace with industry changes and innovation. There is no assurance that new or improved applications or software will compete effectively with the software and technology developed and offered by competitors and will be accepted by our clients. If our Technology segment is unable to develop and offer competitive software and products or is otherwise unable to capitalize on market opportunities, the revenues and growth of the Technology segment and the Company could decline. The success of our technology business and its ability to compete depends, in part, upon our technology and other intellectual property, including our proprietary Ringtail®, Attenex® and TrialMax® software and other proprietary information and intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect these assets. Our Ringtail® and TrialMax® software and related documentation are protected principally under trade secret and copyright laws, which afford only limited protection, and the laws of some jurisdictions provide less protection for our proprietary rights than the laws of the U.S. Certain Attenex® software is protected by patents granted in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Unauthorized use and misuse of our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the legal remedies available to us may not adequately compensate us for the damages caused by unauthorized use. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and business operations. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, we had total outstanding borrowings of $567.9 million of which $565.0 million is under our 7 5/8% senior notes due 2013, 3 3/4% senior subordinated convertible notes due 2012 and 7 3/4% senior notes due 2016 (collectively, our notes) and $9.2 million of outstanding letters of credit under our senior secured bank revolving credit facility. We have an additional $165.8 million of revolving credit available under our senior secured bank credit facility. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • make it more difficult to satisfy our other financial obligations; • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; 31 Table of Contents • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; or • limit our ability to make future acquisitions. Our notes and senior secured bank credit facility contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that we may feel would be beneficial to our business. In addition, our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our outstanding indebtedness. To service our indebtedness, we require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund capital expenditures and acquisitions depends on our ability to generate cash from our operations. This, to a certain extent, is subject to economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Based on our current level of operations, we believe our cash flows from operations, available cash and available borrowings under our senior secured bank credit facility will be adequate to meet our liquidity needs for the next 12 months. We cannot provide assurance, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations, that cost savings and operating improvements will be realized or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior secured bank credit facility or that we can obtain alternative financing proceeds in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness and fund our other cash needs and business growth. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain additional third party financing or refinance any of our existing indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, particularly in light of the current economy and credit situation. We may be required to pay substantial amounts in cash to holders of our convertible notes at the time of conversion prior to maturity. Our 3 3/4% senior subordinated convertible notes will mature on July 15, 2012. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2007, our convertible notes became convertible at the option of the holders, and will continue to be convertible until the trading price of our common stock falls below the conversion price during a conversion measurement period, as specified in the indenture governing the convertible notes. We may be required to pay substantial amounts in cash to holders of our convertible notes prior to their stated maturity due to conversions. The indentures governing our senior notes generally allow for these payments, and our senior secured bank credit facility permits these payments in some, but not all, circumstances. Payments of our convertible notes upon conversion could be construed to be a prepayment of principal on subordinated debt, and our existing and future senior debt may prohibit us from making those payments, or may restrict our ability to do so by requiring that we satisfy certain covenants relating to the making of restricted payments. If we are unable to pay the conversion consideration, we could seek consent from our senior creditors to make the payment. If we are unable to obtain their consent, we could attempt to refinance the senior debt. If we were unable to obtain consent or refinance the debt, we would be prohibited from paying the cash portion of the conversion consideration, in which case we would have an event of default under the indenture governing our convertible notes. An event of default under the convertible note indenture could constitute an event of default under the indentures governing our senior notes and senior secured bank credit facility. The indenture governing the convertible notes provides that the convertible notes are convertible only upon the occurrence of certain events; therefore, we are not able to control the timing of any conversion of the convertible notes. As a result of making cash payments on the convertible notes, we may not have sufficient cash to pay the principal of, or interest on, our other indebtedness and fund our other cash needs. We may attempt to borrow under our senior secured bank credit facility to help fund such payments, but there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient availability under that or any successor facility or that our credit facility lenders will allow us to draw on that facility for the purpose of making payments on our notes. 32 Table of Contents Our indebtedness is guaranteed by substantially all of our domestic subsidiaries and will be required to be guaranteed by future subsidiaries including those organized or that join us in connection with acquisitions. Substantially all of our U.S. subsidiaries guarantee our obligations under our notes. They also guarantee and their assets are pledged to secure our senior secured bank credit facility. Future subsidiaries formed or incorporated in the U.S., including those organized or acquired by us in connection with acquisitions, will be required to guarantee the notes and our senior secured bank debt and to pledge their assets as collateral for our senior secured credit facility. If we default on any indebtedness, our U.S. subsidiaries could be required to make payments under their guarantees, and our senior secured lenders could foreclose on their assets to satisfy unpaid obligations, which would materially adversely affect our business and financial results. We may be able to incur substantially more debt, which could exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of our senior secured bank credit facility and the indentures governing our notes do not prohibit the incurrence of additional debt. As of December 31, 2008, we had $175.0 million of revolving availability under our senior secured bank credit facility, subject to $9.2 million of outstanding letters of credit. If new debt is added to both our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face due to our existing debt level could intensify. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 