Item 1A. Risk Factors.The following risk factors and other information included in this Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or which we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our Common Stock could decline.We have hired investment bankers to analyze our strategic and capital allocation alternatives which could have an impact on our business, competitive position, customer relationships and employee morale and retention, and there can be no assurance that any transaction will result from these activities.In February 2012, we announced the expansion of the engagement of the investment bank Oppenheimer & Co., Inc. for the purpose of assessing strategic alternatives for the Company, including a potential sale of the Company and/or its assets. The announcements themselves could create concerns and uncertainty among our customer base and among our employees regarding the Company's future, and the future of the individual business units. In addition, our stockholders have approved the sale of CES, but it remains subject to a financing condition and has not yet closed. If the transaction does not close, it could create uncertainty and lower morale of the affected employees. These concerns and uncertainty could materially adversely affect our ability to compete in our markets and retain and recruit qualified personnel.Further, we can give no assurance that we will identify and undertake a transaction that allows our stockholders to realize an increase in the value of the Company's stock or provide any guidance on the timing of any such action. We also can give no assurance that any potential transaction or other strategic alternative, once identified, evaluated and consummated, will provide greater value to our stockholders than that reflected in the current stock price. Any transaction would be dependent on factors that may be beyond the Company's control, including, among others, the current global economic environment and market conditions, the interest of third parties in the Company or their businesses, and the availability of financing to potential buyers on reasonable terms or at all.8Table of ContentsOur operating results may be adversely impacted by worldwide economic and political uncertainties and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the cyclical nature of and volatility in the network equipment and network integration industries. We operate in the network equipment and network integration industries. Our network integration business is concentrated in certain geographic markets with 29% of consolidated revenue coming from Italy and 14% of consolidated revenue generated in each of France and Scandinavia. From time to time, these industries and the markets in which we operate have experienced significant downturns, such as is currently being experienced in Europe. These downturns are characterized by decreases in product demand, excess customer inventories, and accelerated erosion of prices, and may be interspersed with or followed by significant and temporary increased demand in products. Further, these industries are cyclical and subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards. These factors could cause substantial fluctuations in our revenue, gross margins and results of operations, and may cause difficulty in predicting demand and short-term production needs. In addition, during these downturns some competitors become more aggressive in their pricing practices, which may adversely impact our product gross margins. Any downturns in the network equipment and network integration industries may be severe and prolonged or intermittent, and any failure to fully recover from downturns of these industries or the markets in which we operate could seriously impact our revenue and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The network equipment and network integration industries also periodically experience increased demand and production capacity constraints, which may affect our ability to ship products in a timely manner and may cause delivery time penalties. Accordingly, our operating results may vary significantly as a result of the general conditions in the network equipment and integration industries, which could cause large fluctuations in our stock price. Many other factors have the potential to significantly impact our business, such as concerns about inflation and deflation, deterioration in credit availability due to economic downturns or instability on a local or global level, volatility in energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns in the communications markets, reduced availability of insurance coverage or reduced ability to pay claims by insurance carriers, international conflicts and terrorist and military activity, and the impact of natural disasters and public health emergencies. These conditions may make it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause U.S. and foreign businesses to reduce spending on our products and services, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. Furthermore, during challenging economic times our customers may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit or could even need to file for bankruptcy. Either of these circumstances could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. If these circumstances were to occur, we may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts. Historically, our business does not come from the end-customer directly, and we have experienced growth patterns that are different than what the end demand might be, particularly during periods of high volatility. This can manifest itself in periods of growth in excess of our customers' growth followed by periods of under-shipment before the volatility abates as our customers adjust their inventory levels. Given recent economic conditions it is possible that any correlation will continue to be less predictable and will result in increased volatility in our operating results and stock price. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or recovery, worldwide, in the network equipment and infrastructure industries or in the markets in which we operate. If the economy or the markets in which we operate deviate from present levels or deteriorate, we may record additional charges related to restructuring costs and the impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, the combination of our lengthy sales to delivery cycle coupled with challenging macroeconomic conditions could have a synergistic negative impact on the results of our operations. The impact of market volatility is not limited to revenue but may also affect our product gross margins and other financial metrics. Such impact could be manifested in, but not limited to, factors such as fixed cost overhead absorption. 9Table of ContentsOur quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuations, and you should not rely on them as an indication of our future performance. Our operating results could fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. Our operating results for a particular quarter are difficult to predict. Our revenue, gross margins and operating results could fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter and from year to year as a whole, and within our business segments. This could result from any one or a combination of factors such as: •the cancellation or postponement of orders from one period to the next;•the timing and amount of significant orders;•the mix in any period of higher and lower margin products and services;•software, hardware or other errors in the products we sell requiring replacements or increased warranty reserves;•charges for excess or obsolete inventory;•our annual reviews of goodwill and other intangibles that may lead to impairment charges;•the ability of our suppliers to produce and deliver components and parts, including sole or limited source components, in a timely manner, in the quantity and quality desired and at the prices we have budgeted;•readiness of customer sites for installation;•political stability in the areas of the world in which we operate;•price reductions that we make, such as marketing decisions that we have made in the past to reduce the price for our products in an effort to secure new customers or to provide competitive bulk discounts;•decreases in average selling prices of our products which result from factors such as overcapacity and market conditions, the introduction of new and more technologically advanced products, and increased sales discounts;•the relative success of our efforts to continually reduce product manufacturing costs;•our introduction of new products, with initial sales at relatively small volumes with resulting higher production costs, and the rate of market acceptance of the products;•delays or reductions in customer purchases of our products in anticipation of the introduction of new and enhanced products by us or our competitors;•the timing of capital spending of our customers;•currency fluctuations;•the ability of our customers to pay for our products; •general economic conditions; and•changes in conditions specific to our business segments.Moreover, the volume and timing of orders we receive during a quarter are difficult to forecast. Customers often view the purchase of our products as a significant and strategic decision. As a result, customers typically expend significant effort in evaluating, testing and qualifying our products and our manufacturing process. This customer evaluation and qualification process frequently results in a lengthy initial sales cycle of up to one year or more. We may also expend significant management effort, increase manufacturing capacity and order long lead-time components or materials prior to receiving an order. Further, our customers encounter uncertain and changing demand for their products. Customers generally order based on their forecasts. If demand falls below these forecasts or if customers do not control inventories effectively, they may cancel or reschedule shipments previously ordered from us even after acceptance of orders. We do not recognize revenue until a product has been shipped to a customer, all significant vendor obligations have been performed, and collection is considered reasonably assured. Our expense levels during any particular period are based, in part, on expectations of future sales. If sales in a particular quarter do not meet expectations, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. We expect revenue and gross margins generally and for specific products and services to continue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year. Changes in service gross margin may result from various factors such as changes in the mix between technical support services and advanced services, as well as the timing of support service contract initiations and renewals. It is possible that, in future periods, our results of operations will be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. This failure to meet expectations could cause the trading price of our Common Stock to decline. Similarly, the failure by our competitors or customers to meet or exceed the results expected by their analysts or investors could, by association, cause our stock price to decline. Competition is ever increasing, and we face additional challenges when entering into new markets which could reduce our revenue and gross margins or cause us to lose market share. The network equipment and network integration industries are intensely competitive, and we must continually provide new products while dealing with increased price competition from low-cost producers in Asia or elsewhere. We are further looking to expand our provision of services, and the markets in which we currently offer our products 10Table of Contentsand services. These efforts expose us to additional competition and will likely increase demands on our service and support operations. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, sales and customer support organizations and other resources and larger installed customer bases than we have. Our competitors continually introduce new competitive products, and may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. They may also be able to leverage their buying power with vendors to give them preferential treatment in delivery of high-demand products in times of supply constraint. Many of our larger competitors offer customers broader product lines, which provide a more comprehensive networking solution than we provide. These companies can leverage their customer bases and broader product offerings and adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share. In addition, several of our competitors have large market capitalizations, have substantially larger cash reserves, and are much better positioned than we are to acquire other companies in order to gain new technologies or products that may displace our product lines and give them a strategic advantage. Accordingly, in certain regional markets we have collaborated with other vendors in an effort to enhance our overall capability in providing products and services, and we focus on consolidating our purchasing programs globally to improve purchasing power with vendors. Additional competitors may enter the market, and we are likely to compete with new companies in the future, especially from the People's Republic of China ("PRC"). Companies competing with us may introduce products that are more competitively priced, have increased performance or functionality, or incorporate technological advances that we have not yet developed or implemented, and may be able to react more quickly to changing customer requirements and expectations. There is also the risk that other network system vendors may enter or re-enter the subsystem market and begin to manufacture in-house the networking subsystems incorporated into their network systems. We also expect to encounter potential customers that, because of existing relationships with our competitors, are committed to the products offered by these competitors. As a result of the foregoing factors, we expect that competitive pressures may result in price reductions, reduced or negative margins or loss of market share in our markets. Our markets are subject to rapid technological change, and to compete effectively, we must continually introduce new products that achieve market acceptance. The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. We expect that new technologies will emerge as competition and the need for higher and more cost effective transmission capacity, or bandwidth, increases. Our future performance will depend on the successful development of new and enhanced products that address these changes and other customer requirements. The introduction of new and enhanced products may cause our customers to defer or cancel orders for existing products. We have in the past experienced delays in product development and these delays may occur in the future. Therefore, to the extent that customers defer or cancel orders in the expectation of a new product release or there is any delay in development or introduction of our new products or enhancements of our products, our operating results would suffer. During each of the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, product development and engineering expenses accounted for nine percent of revenue. Introduction of new products and product enhancements will require that we effectively transfer production processes from research and development to manufacturing and coordinate our efforts with those of our suppliers to achieve volume production rapidly. If we fail to transfer production processes effectively, develop product enhancements or introduce new products in sufficient quantities to meet the needs of our customers as scheduled, our net sales may be reduced and our business may be harmed. We also may not be able to develop the underlying core technologies necessary to create new products and enhancements, or to license these technologies from third parties. Product development delays may result from numerous factors, including: •changing product specifications and customer requirements; •difficulties in hiring and retaining necessary technical personnel; •difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations; •difficulties with contract manufacturers; •changing market or competitive product requirements; and •unanticipated engineering complexities. 11Table of ContentsThe development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and highly skilled engineering and development personnel, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. In order to compete, we must be able to deliver to customers products that are highly reliable, operate with their existing equipment, lower their costs of acquisition, installation and maintenance, and provide an overall cost-effective solution. We may not be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products successfully, if at all, or on a timely basis. Further, our new products may not gain market acceptance or we may not be able to respond effectively to product announcements by competitors, technological changes or emerging industry standards. Our failure to respond effectively to technological changes would significantly harm our business. Our products are deployed in large and complex systems and may contain defects that are not detected until after our products have been installed, which may cause us to incur significant costs, divert our attention from product development efforts, or damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers. Our products are complex and undergo internal quality testing and qualification as well as formal qualification by our customers. However, defects may be found from time to time. Our customers' testing procedures are limited to evaluating our products under likely and foreseeable failure scenarios and over varying amounts of time. For various reasons, including among others, the occurrence of performance problems that are unforeseeable in testing or that are detected only when products age or are operated under peak stress conditions, our products may fail to perform as expected long after customer acceptance. Failures could result from faulty components or design, problems in manufacturing or other unforeseen reasons. As a result, we could incur significant costs to repair and/or replace defective products under warranty, particularly when such failures occur in installed systems. We have experienced such failures in the past and will continue to face this risk going forward, as our products are widely deployed throughout the world in multiple demanding environments and applications. In addition, we may in certain circumstances honor warranty claims after the warranty period has expired or for problems not covered by warranty in order to maintain customer relationships. We believe that our warranty reserves adequately address our potential exposure to liability for warranty claims. Our warranty reserves are based on historical return rates, and our average material costs incurred to repair items, including labor costs. The warranty reserves are evaluated and adjusted based on updated actual experience. In addition, certain of our networking products are typically embedded in, or deployed in conjunction with, our customers' products, which incorporate a variety of components and may be expected to interoperate with modules produced by third parties. As a result, not all defects are immediately detectable and when problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These problems may cause us to incur significant damages or warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts, cause significant customer relation problems or loss of customers, and harm our reputation and brand, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business. Although we were profitable on a consolidated basis in the year ended December 31, 2010, we have not achieved profitability on a consolidated basis consistently, and may not achieve profitability in the future. Although we were profitable on a consolidated basis in the year ended December 31, 2010, we have not been consistently profitable on a consolidated basis. We expect to continue to incur significant product development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses, and costs related to improving manufacturing efficiency. As a result, we will need to continue our efforts to contain expense levels and increase revenue levels in an effort to achieve profitability in the future. In 2008 and 2009, we incurred additional significant charges related to the investigation and restatement of our financial statements, and in 2009, we incurred expenses related to a proxy contest for the election of directors. In 2010 we incurred charges related to a settlement of outstanding patent litigation with Finisar Corporation. In 2011, we recorded a $7.1 million charge in connection with the write-down of goodwill at Alcadon. We may not be successful in our efforts to contain expense levels and increase revenue levels, and we may not attain profitability on a sustained basis or at all. Our customers may adopt alternate technologies for which we do not produce products or for which our products are not adaptable. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and new product introductions, which may minimize the demand for our existing products or render them obsolete. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance existing products and to develop and introduce new products that address such changes in technology and standards and respond to our customers' potential desire to adopt such technologies in place of those supported by our current product offerings. The development of new or enhanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring the accurate anticipation of technological and market 12Table of Contentstrends as well as precise technological execution. Further, the development cycle for products integrating new technologies or technologies with which we are not as familiar may be longer and more costly than our current product development process. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these new products, and the new products may not be successfully commercialized. These costs and delays may prevent us from being able to establish a market position with respect to such new technologies and industry standards or be as responsive as we would like to be in meeting our customers' demands for such products, thus adversely affecting our results of operations and our customer relationships. We do not have many long-term volume purchase contracts with our customers, so our customers may increase, decrease, cancel or delay their purchasing levels at any time with minimal advance notice to us, which may significantly harm our business. Our customers typically purchase our products pursuant to individual purchase orders. While our customers generally provide us with their demand forecasts, in most cases they are not contractually committed to buy any quantity of products beyond firm purchase orders. Our customers may increase, decrease, cancel or delay purchase orders already in place. If any of our major customers decrease, stop or delay purchasing our products for any reason, our business and results of operations would be harmed. Cancellation or delays of such orders may cause us to fail to achieve our short- and long-term financial and operating goals. Lead times for components and materials that we order vary significantly and depend on factors including the specific supplier requirements, the size of the order, contract terms and current market demand for components. For substantial increases in our sales levels, some of our suppliers may need significant lead time. In the past, during periods of market downturns, certain of our largest customers canceled or delayed significant orders with us and with our competitors, which resulted in losses of sales and excess and obsolete inventory. Similarly, decreases or deferrals of purchases by our customers may significantly harm our industry and specifically our business in these and in additional unforeseen ways, particularly if they are not anticipated. We may suffer losses as a result of entering into fixed price contracts. From time to time we enter into contracts with certain customers in which the price we charge for particular products is fixed. Although our estimated production costs for these products are used to compute fixed sales prices, if actual production costs exceed the estimated production costs because of our inability to obtain needed components timely, or at all, or we cannot continue to cut costs in production and have incrementally decreased future fixed prices, we may incur a loss on the sale. Sales of material amounts of products on a fixed price basis, for which we have not accurately forecast the production costs, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A few customers account for a substantial portion of our sales, increasing both our dependence on a few revenue sources and the risk that our operations will suffer materially if a significant customer stops ordering from us or substantially reduces its business with us. One customer of our Network Integration group accounted for 17%, 18% and 16% of revenue in the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and another Network Integration group customer accounted for 19% and 22% of accounts receivable in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. While our financial performance benefited from substantial sales to these customers, because of the magnitude of sales to the customers, our results would suffer if we were to lose their business. Additionally, if those customers, or other significant customers, made substantial reductions in orders or stopped paying their invoices when due, our results of operations would suffer unless we were able to replace the orders or collect on the payments due. Both customers are major telecom companies operating predominately in Italy. Our ability to utilize our NOLs and certain other tax attributes may be limited. As of December 31, 2011, MRV had federal, state and foreign net operating losses, or NOLs, of $227.4 million, $161.8 million and $89.9 million, respectively. To utilize these NOLs, we need to generate sufficient taxable income in the related jurisdictions prior to their expiration or limitation under Section 382. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, if a corporation undergoes an "ownership change," the corporation's ability to use its pre-change NOLs, capital loss carry forwards and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income, may be limited. An ownership change is generally defined as a greater than 50% change in its equity ownership by value over a three-year period. We may experience an ownership change in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership. If we were to trigger an ownership change in the future, our ability to use any NOLs and capital loss carry forwards existing at that time could be limited. 13Table of ContentsWe face risks in reselling the products of other companies. We distribute products manufactured by other companies. To the extent we succeed in reselling the products of these companies, or products of other vendors with which we may enter into similar arrangements, we may be required by customers to assume warranty and service obligations. While these suppliers have agreed to support us with respect to those obligations, if they should be unable, for any reason, to provide the required support, we may have to expend our own resources on doing so. We are unable to evaluate fully the potential magnitude of these warranty claims as the equipment has been designed and manufactured by others. There are a limited number of potential source suppliers for certain components, which makes us susceptible to supply shortages. We currently purchase several key components from single or limited sources. Moreover, we depend on the quality of the products supplied to us, over which we have limited control. We have encountered shortages and delays in obtaining components in the past and expect to encounter shortages and delays in the future. Sudden significant increases in demand for products which we purchase may cause delays in delivery of subcomponents, which may cause delay in delivery of our products. Larger competitors may be able to demand more rapid delivery of components parts in comparison to us. If we cannot supply products due to a lack of certain components or are unable to redesign products with other components in a timely manner, our business will be significantly harmed. We typically have not entered into long-term agreements with our suppliers and, therefore, our suppliers could stop supplying materials and equipment at any time or fail to supply adequate quantities of component parts on a timely basis. It is difficult, costly, time consuming and, on short notice, sometimes impossible for us to identify and qualify new component suppliers. The reliance on a sole supplier, single qualified vendor or limited number of suppliers could result in delivery and quality problems, reduced control over product pricing, reliability and performance. We may have difficulty in identifying and qualifying another supplier in a timely manner. We have in the past had to change suppliers, which, in some instances, has resulted in delays in product development and manufacturing until another supplier was found and qualified. Any such delays in the future may limit our ability to respond to changes in customer and market demands. During the last several years, the number of suppliers of components has decreased significantly and, more recently, demand for components has increased. Any supply deficiencies relating to the quality or quantities of components we use to manufacture our products could adversely affect our ability to fulfill customer orders and our results of operations. We rely substantially upon a limited number of contract manufacturing partners, and if these contract manufacturers fail to meet our short- and long-term needs and contractual obligations, our business may be negatively impacted. We rely to a significant extent on a limited number of contract manufacturers to assemble, manufacture and test our products. The qualification and set up of these independent manufacturers under quality assurance standards is an expensive and time-consuming process. In the past, we have experienced delays or other problems, such as inferior quality, insufficient quantity of product and an inability to meet cost targets, which have led to delays in our ability to fulfill customer orders. Additionally, in the past, we have been required to qualify new contract manufacturing partners and replace contract manufacturers, which led to delays in deliveries. Any future interruption in the operations of these manufacturers, or any deficiency in the quality, quantity or timely delivery of the components or products built for us by these manufacturers, could impede our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our customers or require us to contract with and qualify new contract manufacturing partners. As a result, we may lose existing or potential customers or orders and our business may be negatively impacted. If we fail to forecast component and material requirements accurately, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays. We use rolling forecasts based on anticipated product orders to determine our component and material requirements. It is very important that we accurately predict both the demand for our products and the lead times required to obtain the necessary components and materials. Lead times for components and materials that we order vary significantly and depend on factors such as specific supplier requirements, the size of the order, contract terms and current market demand for the components. For substantial increases in production levels, some suppliers may need six months or more lead time. If we overestimate our component and material requirements, we may have excess or obsolete inventory, which may not get used or have to be discounted to eliminate. If we underestimate our component and material requirements, we may have inadequate inventory, which could interrupt our manufacturing and delay delivery of our products to our customers. Any of these occurrences would negatively impact our revenue. 14Table of ContentsOur business and future operating results may be adversely affected by events outside of our control. We use our facilities in California, Massachusetts and Israel for major product design and development and customer support, and we manufacture products at our facilities in California and Israel. The risk of earthquakes in Southern California is significant because of the proximity of these manufacturing facilities to major earthquake fault lines. In January 1994, major earthquakes near Chatsworth, California affected our facilities, causing power and communications outages and disruptions that impaired production capacity. While our facility did not suffer material damage and our business was not materially disrupted by this earthquake, the occurrence of an earthquake or other natural disaster could result in the disruption of our manufacturing facilities. Any disruption in our manufacturing facilities arising from earthquakes, other natural disasters or other catastrophic events including wildfires and other fires, excessive rain, terrorist attacks and wars, could disrupt our manufacturing ability, which could harm our operations and financial results, and could cause significant delays in the production or shipment of our products until we are able to shift production to different facilities or arrange for third parties to manufacture our products. We may not be able to obtain alternate capacity on favorable terms or at all. The location of our manufacturing facilities subjects us to increased risk that a natural disaster could disrupt our operations. Although we believe our insurance coverage is adequate to address the variety of potential liabilities we face, our insurance coverage is subject to deductibles and coverage limits. Upon an occurrence of a significant natural disaster, or manmade problems such as computer viruses, civil war, terrorism, blackout or disruptions to the economies of the United States and other countries, such coverage may not be adequate or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. In the event of a major earthquake or other disaster affecting one or more of our facilities, our operations could be significantly disrupted, delayed or prevented for the time required to transfer production, repair, rebuild or replace the affected manufacturing facilities. This time frame could be lengthy, and result in significant expenses for repair and related costs. In addition, concerns about an outbreak of epidemic diseases such as avian or swine influenza or severe acute respiratory syndrome, could have a negative effect on travel and our business operations, and result in adverse consequences to our business and results of operations. Environmental regulations applicable to our manufacturing operations could limit our ability to expand or subject us to substantial costs. Compliance with current and future environmental regulations may be costly which could impact our future operating results. We are subject to a variety of environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals used during our development and manufacturing processes. Further, we are subject to other safety, labeling and training regulations as required by foreign, local, state and federal law. We believe we are compliant in all material respects with applicable environmental regulations in the United States, Taiwan and Israel. However, any failure by us to comply with present and future regulations could subject us to future liabilities or the suspension of production. In addition, such regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities and we may need to acquire costly equipment or incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations. We cannot provide assurance that legal requirements will not be imposed on us that would require additional capital expenditures or the satisfaction of other requirements. If we fail to obtain required permits or otherwise fail to operate within current or future legal requirements, including those applicable to us in the United States, Taiwan and Israel, we may be required to pay substantial penalties, suspend our operations, or make costly changes to our development and manufacturing processes or facilities. In addition, we could face significant costs and liabilities in connection with legislation which enables customers to return a product at the end of its useful life and charges us with financial and other responsibility for environmentally safe collection, recycling, treatment and disposal. We also face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and upcoming requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, and disclosure related to the origin of certain raw materials used in our products. This includes the restrictions on lead and certain other substances in electronics that apply to specified electronics products put on the market in the European Union and the PRC. Many of our customers have adopted this approach and have required our full compliance. Even though we have devoted a significant amount of resources and effort planning and executing our compliance program and believe that we are in compliance with such legislation, it is possible that some of our products might be incompatible with such regulations. In such event, we could experience loss of revenue, damaged reputation, diversion of resources, monetary penalties and legal action. Other environmental regulations may require us to re-engineer our products to utilize components that are more environmentally compatible. Such re-engineering and component substitution may result in additional costs to us. Although we currently do not anticipate any material adverse effects based on the nature of our operations and the effect of such laws, there is no assurance that such existing laws or future laws will not have a material adverse effect on us. 15Table of ContentsOur business and future operating results are subject to a wide range of uncertainties arising out of the international nature of our operations and facilities. International sales accounted for 73%, 78%, and 78% of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.We have offices and facilities in, and conduct a significant portion of our operations in and from, France, Israel, Italy, Sweden, and Switzerland. We are, therefore, influenced by the political and economic conditions affecting these countries. Risks we face from international sales and our use of facilities and suppliers overseas for manufacturing include: •ensuring compliance with local regulations and laws in each country and locality in which we do business;•greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods;•the impact of recessions in economies outside the United States;•changes in regulatory requirements;•seasonal reductions in business activities in some parts of the world, such as during the summer months in Europe;•difficulties in managing operations across disparate geographic areas;•difficulties associated with enforcing agreements through foreign legal systems;•the payment of operating expenses in local currencies, which exposes us to risks of currency exchange rate fluctuations;•higher credit risks requiring cash in advance or letters of credit;•potentially adverse tax consequences, increasing taxes, and heightened efforts by officials of foreign countries to increase revenue from tax collection;•unavailability or delays in delivery of equipment, raw materials or key components;•trade restrictions, tariff increases and increasing import-export duties;•shipping delays; •limited protection of intellectual property rights;•tightening immigration controls that may adversely affect the residency status of our engineers and other key employees in our U.S. facilities who are not permanent residents of the United States, or our ability to hire new non-U.S. employees in our U.S. facilities; and•increasing foreign environmental regulation or unforeseen environmental problems.Our business and operations are also subject to general geopolitical conditions, such as terrorism, political and economic instability, changes in the costs of key resources such as crude oil and changes in diplomatic or trade relationships. Economic conditions in several countries and markets outside the United States in which we have offices, personnel, facilities or sales represent significant risks to us. Instability in the Middle East, PRC or European Union could have a negative impact on our sales and operations in these regions, and unstable conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition to the effect of global economic instability on our operations or facilities on sales to customers outside the United States, sales to domestic customers could be negatively impacted by these conditions. Our operating results are impacted by foreign exchange rates and interest rate fluctuations. Our interest income and expense is impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. Changes in foreign exchange rates impact us in four ways. Several of our foreign business units have a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar. The amount of revenue, expenses, assets and liabilities measured in U.S. dollars is impacted by changes in exchange rates. Our revenue and profits were positively affected in 2011 because of the weakness of the U.S. dollar relative to the currencies in which these business units report their results, however, our revenue and profits in 2010 and other years were negatively affected by the relative strength of the U.S. dollar. Further, fluctuations in currency exchange rates can and do cause our products to become relatively more expensive in particular countries, leading to a reduction 16Table of Contentsin sales in that country. The proportion of our costs incurred in various currencies varies from the proportion of revenue denominated in that currency which may materially impact our gross margins. Some of our accounts receivable, cash balances, accounts payable, credit lines, and other assets and liabilities are denominated in currencies other than the related business unit's functional currency. Increases or decreases in the expected amount of cash flow result in foreign exchange gains or losses which impact our profitability. We currently do not have any hedging or swap agreements in place other than intra-quarter currency hedges at one of our subsidiaries. Where possible, we attempt to denominate sales in countries in which we do business in the local currency, to match the proportion of cost and revenue transacted in each currency, and to match the assets and liabilities held in each currency which helps to reduce foreign exchange rate exposure to some degree. We could incur losses from the lack of hedging activities in the future. In addition, inflation or fluctuations in currency exchange or interest rates in any of the countries that we do business could increase our operating expenses and thereby adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or the U.K. Bribery Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We could suffer losses from corrupt or fraudulent business practices. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"), and potentially the U.K. Bribery Act, each of which generally prohibits companies from engaging in bribery or making other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In addition, we are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent our transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions, and therefore may have a competitive advantage over us. We have implemented and maintained preventative measures, but cannot assure that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct and render us responsible under the FCPA. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in these practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, we may not be able to compete. We rely on a combination of trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure and patents, copyrights and trademarks to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot be sure that our pending patent and trademark applications will be approved, that any patents or trademarks that may be issued will protect our intellectual property or that third parties will not challenge any issued patents. Other parties may independently develop similar or competing technology or design around any patents that may be issued to us. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Specifically there is a risk of poor enforcement of intellectual property rights in the PRC, where the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property is uncertain and still evolving. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable competitors, especially in the PRC, to benefit from our technologies without paying us any royalties. Enforcing our intellectual property rights or resolving intellectual property disputes may involve litigation. Any of this kind of litigation, regardless of outcome, could be expensive and time consuming, and adverse determinations in any of this kind of litigation could seriously harm our business. We are involved in intellectual property disputes from time to time as part of doing business in the network equipment industry, which could divert management's attention, cause us to incur significant costs, and prevent us from selling or using the challenged technology. Participants in the network equipment markets in which we sell our products have experienced litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Numerous patents in these industries are held by others, including our competitors. From time to time, we have become aware of the possibility or have been notified that we may be infringing certain patents or other intellectual property rights of others, and we have been involved in litigation matters regarding intellectual property right claims of others in the past. In addition, we may be a party to litigation to protect our intellectual property. These claims and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages or invalidation of our proprietary rights, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our defense and, even if we are successful, we may incur substantial legal fees and other costs in defending the lawsuit. Any lawsuit that we may become party to, regardless of its success, may be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and divert technical and management time and attention. Accordingly, any infringement claim or litigation against us could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Further, we have agreed to indemnify the buyer of Source Photonics through October 2013 regarding any intellectual property claims that arise from allegations of intellectual property rights violations that occurred prior to the closing, though have not received notice of such claims. In the event of an adverse result in any litigation with respect to intellectual property rights relevant to our 17Table of Contentsproducts, we could be required to obtain licenses to the infringing technology, to pay substantial damages under applicable law, to cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products, or to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology. Licenses may not be available from third parties either on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We are involved in various derivative litigation suits due to past stock option granting practices, and the related restatement of our prior financial results. In connection with our past stock option grant practices, we, and a number of our current and former directors and officers, have been subjected to a number of ongoing stockholder lawsuits. A description of the litigation is set forth in Item 3. "Legal Proceedings" of this Form 10-K. As a result of this litigation, we have been and remain subject to a number of risks, including the following, each of which could result in a material adverse effect to our business, financial condition and results of operations and/or a negative effect on the market for our stock: (i) indemnification obligations for our former and current directors and officers related to the litigation; (ii) additional significant costs in effectuating on-going or additional remediation actions; and (iii) diversion of the time and attention of members of our management and our Board of Directors from the management of our business. We are involved in other lawsuits and legal proceedings, and have agreed to indemnify the buyer of Source Photonics for claims arising from allegations occurring prior to the closing. We are involved in various lawsuits, disputes and claims, arising in the ordinary course of business, and continue to provide indemnification to the buyer of Source Photonics for litigation related to the acquisition of Fiberxon LLC, which is described in Item 3. "Legal Proceedings" of this Form 10-K, and for claims arising from allegations occurring prior to the closing that are related to intellectual property, environmental matters, employee benefits and taxes. These suits or actions may raise complex factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties. Actions filed against us could include product liability, commercial, intellectual property, customer, employment and securities related claims, including class action lawsuits. Plaintiffs (or defendants who counterclaim) may seek unspecified damages or injunctive relief, or both. Although we carry product liability insurance, and believe such coverage is adequate based on the historical rate and nature of customer product quality claims or complaints, we cannot provide assurance that this insurance would adequately cover our costs arising from any significant defects in our products. Adverse results to any lawsuits, disputes or claims may harm our business and have material adverse effects on our results of operations, liquidity or financial position, any or all of which could adversely affect our stock price. Failure to achieve and maintain internal controls in accordance with Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. We have examined and evaluated our internal control procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and found no material weaknesses for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. However, we had one material weakness due to our restatement of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. In our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, which we did not file until October 8, 2009, we had reported two material weaknesses for the year then ended, and another that had been remediated during 2008 due to the restatement of our financial statements. During the fourth quarter of 2011, we identified a material weakness that we believe was remediated as of December 31, 2011 by modifying the reporting structure and roles and responsibilities of the accounting team at one of our business units. The changes, which the Company believes were effective at improving the internal controls of the business unit, included having individuals responsible for accounting and reporting at the business unit report directly to the Vice President, Finance to ensure the proper oversight of financial reporting and internal control. Furthermore, we identified five significant deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting including three at the business unit discussed above related to the revenue, inventory and financial statement close processes which still existed as of December 31, 2011. The significant deficiencies at that business unit, are mitigated in part, by the review and oversight of our Chief Financial Officer and Vice President, Finance who intend to leave the Company on March 30, 2012. If we fail to properly transition these functions to the individuals assuming their duties and responsibilities, these significant deficiencies could rise to the level of a material weakness. We intend to make additional improvements to address these significant deficiencies. If we fail to maintain the internal controls we have recently implemented, or fail to adequately address these significant deficiencies, or fail to implement required new or improved controls, as such control standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, or as our business changes, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important in the prevention of financial fraud. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors may lose further confidence in our reported financial information, and there could be a material adverse effect on our stock price. 18Table of ContentsThe loss of key management could negatively affect our business. Our ability to develop, manufacture and market our products, run our operations and our ability to compete with our current and future competitors depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Competition for executives and highly-qualified engineers in the network equipment and infrastructure industries is intense, and we will be required to compete for those personnel with companies having substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. We are dependent upon our executive officers and the general managers of our various business units, especially in places where personal relationships are a significant part of a business transaction. We do not have succession plans in every key position, and the loss of the services of these officers could have a material adverse effect on our operations. If we do not attract necessary team members to operate our business and provide for adequate retention and succession planning, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our Chief Financial Officer and Vice President, Finance intend to leave the Company on March 30, 2012 and they have been transitioning their responsibilities to the individuals who will be assuming their duties and responsibilities. If we are unable to appropriately manage this transition, our ability to produce reliable financial results and timely report to the SEC could be adversely impacted.Delaware law and our ability to issue preferred stock may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control, which may cause our stock price to decline. We are authorized to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock. This Preferred Stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by our Board of Directors without further action by stockholders. The terms of any series of preferred stock may include voting rights (including the right to vote as a series on particular matters), preferences as to dividend, liquidation, conversion and redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. No preferred stock is currently outstanding. The issuance of any preferred stock could materially adversely affect the rights of the holders of our Common Stock, and therefore, reduce the value of our Common Stock. In particular, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell our assets to, a third party and thereby preserve control by the present management. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibit us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder unless the business combination is approved in the manner prescribed under Section 203. These provisions of Delaware law also may discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us, which may cause the market price of our Common Stock to decline. There is no assurance of an established public trading market for our Common Stock, which would adversely affect the ability of investors in our Company to sell their Common Stock in the public markets. Our Common Stock was delisted from trading on the NASDAQ Global Market in August 2009. At present, the OTC "Pink Sheets" is the only public market where investors can trade our Common Stock. The Pink Sheets is an inter-dealer electronic quotation and trading system that provides significantly less liquidity and daily trading volume than a national securities exchange or automated quotation system. Quotes for stocks included in the Pink Sheets are not listed in the financial sections of newspapers as are those for stocks listed on national securities exchanges or automated quotation systems. In the absence of an active trading market, investors may have difficulty buying and selling or obtaining market quotations, and the lack of visibility for our Common Stock may have a depressive effect on the market for our Common Stock. Because this Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, it may not prove to be accurate. This Form 10-K and other Company releases and filings with the SEC may contain forward-looking statements. We generally identify forward-looking statements using words like "believe," "intend," "expect," "may," "should," "plan," "project," "contemplate," "anticipate," "target," "estimate," "foresee," "goal," "likely," "will" or similar statements. Because these statements reflect our current views concerning future events, they involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including the risks and uncertainties identified in this report. Actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in these forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements or risk factors to reflect future events or circumstances. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.There are no unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC's staff 180 days or more before the end of the Company's fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports filed under the Exchange Act.19Table of Contents