Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of future operations could be materially adversely affected. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience fluctuations in our results of operations, which could adversely affect us. Factors that affect our results of operations include, but are not limited to, the volume and timing of orders received, changes in the global economy and financial markets, changes in the mix of products sold, market acceptance of our and our customer’s products, competitive pricing pressures, global currency valuations, the availability of electronic components that we purchase from suppliers, our ability to meet increasing demand, our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis, the timing of new product announcements and introductions by our or our competitors, changing customer requirements, delays in new product qualifications, and the timing and extent of research and development expenses. These factors have caused and may continue to cause us to experience material fluctuations in operating results on a quarterly and/or annual basis. These fluctuations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which in turn, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The loss of one or more of our major customers could adversely affect our results of operations. We are dependent on a small number of customers for a large portion of our revenues. In fiscal year 2005, our five largest customers accounted for 35% of our net sales. A significant decrease in the sales to or loss of any of our major customers would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our revenues are largely dependent upon the ability of customers to develop and sell products that incorporate our products. No assurance can be given that our major customers will not experience financial, technical or other difficulties that could adversely affect their operations and, in turn, our results of operations. If we are unable to continue to develop new products that are inexpensive to manufacture, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We may not be able to continue to achieve our historical profit margins in our precision miniature medical and electronic products business due to advancements in technology. The ability to continue our profit margins is dependent upon our ability to stay competitive by developing products that are technologically advanced and inexpensive to manufacture. Our precision miniature medical and electronic products business has also been affected by unfavorable conditions in the hearing instrument market and the impact of the Asian economic situation. We are unable to predict with any certainty when and if these conditions will improve. Our need for continued investment in research and development may increase expenses and reduce our profitability. Our industry is characterized by the need for continued investment in research and development. If we fail to invest sufficiently in research and development, our products could become less attractive to potential customers and our business and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. As a result of the need to maintain or increase spending levels in this area and the difficulty in reducing costs associated with research and 12 development, our operating results could be materially harmed if our research and development efforts fail to result in new products or if revenues fall below expectations. In addition, as a result of our commitment to invest in research and development, spending levels of research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues may fluctuate in the future. We operate in a highly competitive business and if we are unable to be competitive, our financial condition could be adversely affected. Several of our competitors have been able to offer more standardized and less technologically advanced hearing products at lower prices. Price competition has had an adverse effect on our sales and margins. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or enhance our technical capabilities or compete successfully with our existing and future competitors. Merger and acquisition activity in our hearing health market has resulted in a smaller customer base. Reliance on fewer customers may have an adverse effect on us. Several of our customers in the hearing health market, have undergone mergers or acquisitions, resulting in a smaller customer base with larger customers. If we are unable to maintain satisfactory relationships with the reduced customer base, it may adversely affect our operating profits and revenue. Unfavorable legislation in the hearing health market may decrease the demand for our products, and may negatively impact our financial condition. In some of our foreign markets government subsidies cover a portion of the cost of hearing aids. A change in legislation that would reduce or eliminate these subsidies could decrease the demand for our hearing health products. This could result in an adverse effect on our operating results. We are unable to predict the likelihood of any such legislation. Implementation of our growth strategy may not be successful, which could affect our ability to increase revenues. Our growth strategy includes developing new products and entering new markets, as well as identifying and integrating acquisitions. Our ability to compete in new markets will depend upon a number of factors including, among others: • our ability to create demand for products in new markets; • our ability to manage growth effectively; • our ability to successfully integrate any acquisitions that we make; • our ability to respond to changes in our customers’ businesses by updating existing products and introducing, in a timely fashion, new products which meet the needs of our customers; • the quality of our new products; and • our ability to respond rapidly to technological change. The failure to do any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may face competition in these new markets from various companies that may have substantially greater research and development resources, marketing and financial resources, manufacturing capability and customer support organizations. We operate in Singapore and Germany, and various factors relating to our international operations could affect our results of operations. 13 In 2005, we operated in Singapore, Germany, and Japan. Approximately 14 percent of our revenues were derived from these countries in 2005. As of December 31, 2005 approximately 5 percent of long lived assets are location in these countries. We currently operate in Singapore and Germany. Political or economic instability in these countries could have an adverse impact on our results of operations due to diminished revenues in these countries. Our future revenues, costs of operations and profit results could be affected by a number of factors related to our international operations, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in economic conditions from country to country, changes in a country’s political condition, trade protection measures, licensing and other legal requirements and local tax issues. Unanticipated currency fluctuations in the Euro and Singapore Dollar could lead to lower reported consolidated revenues due to the translation of these currencies into U.S. dollars when we consolidates our revenues. We may explore acquisitions that complement or expand our business. We may not be able to complete these transactions and these transactions, if executed, pose significant risks and may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We intend to explore opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that could complement, enhance or expand our current business or product lines or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities. We may have difficulty finding these opportunities or, if we do identify these opportunities, we may not be able to complete the transactions for reasons including a failure to secure financing. Any transactions that we are able to identify and complete may involve a number of risks, including: the diversion of our management’s attention from our existing business to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired or combined business or joint venture; possible adverse effects on our operating results during the integration process; unanticipated liabilities; and our possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the transaction. In addition, we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage our newly acquired operations or employees. In addition, future acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of additional debt. We may experience difficulty in paying our debt when it comes due, which could limit our ability to obtain financing. Our ability to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness as it comes due will depend upon our current and future performance. Our performance is affected by general economic conditions and by financial, competitive, political, business and other factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We believe that the amended credit facility combined with funds expected to be generated from operations, the available borrowing capacity through our revolving credit loan facilities, curtailment of the dividend payment and control of capital spending will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for operating needs through April 1, 2007. If, however, we are unable to renew these facilities in the future, or do not generate sufficient cash or complete such financings on a timely basis, we may be required to seek additional financing or sell equity on terms which may not be as favorable as we could have otherwise obtained. No assurance can be given that any refinancing, additional borrowing or sale of equity will be possible when needed or that we will be able to negotiate acceptable terms. In addition, our access to capital is affected by prevailing conditions in the financial and equity capital markets, as well as our own financial condition. Our success depends on our senior management team and if we are not able to retain them, it could have a materially adverse effect on us. 14 We are highly dependent upon the continued services and experience of our senior management team, including Mark S. Gorder, our President, Chief Executive Officer and a director. We depend on the services of Mr. Gorder and the other members of our senior management team to, among other things, continue the development and implementation of our business strategies and maintain and develop our client relationships. Our future success depends in part on the continued service of our engineering and technical personnel and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional personnel. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in our markets. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain engineers or other qualified personnel necessary for the development and growth of our business or to replace engineers or other qualified personnel who may leave our employ in the future. The failure to retain and recruit key technical personnel could cause additional expense, potentially reduce the efficiency of our operations and could harm our business. We and/or our customers may be unable to protect our and their proprietary technology and intellectual property rights or keep up with that of competitors. Our ability to compete effectively against other companies in our markets depends, in part, on our ability and the ability of our customers to protect our and their current and future proprietary technology under patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and unfair competition laws. We cannot assure that our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the United States or abroad will be adequate, or that others will not develop technologies similar or superior to our technology or design around the proprietary rights we own. In addition, we may incur substantial costs in attempting to protect our proprietary rights. Also, despite the steps taken by us to protect our proprietary rights, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy or reverse-engineer aspects of our and our customers’ products, develop similar technology independently or otherwise obtain and use information that we or our customers regard as proprietary. We and our customers may be unable to successfully identify or prosecute unauthorized uses of our or our customers’ technology. If we become subject to intellectual property infringement claims, we could incur significant expenses and could be prevented from selling specific products. We may become subject to claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others in the future. We cannot assure that, if made, these claims will not be successful. Any claim of infringement could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim even if the claim is invalid, and could distract management from other business. Any judgment against us could require substantial payment in damages and could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering certain products. We are subject to numerous asbestos-related lawsuits, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. We are a defendant along with a number of other parties in approximately 122 lawsuits as of December 31, 2005, (approximately 123 lawsuits as of December 31, 2004) alleging that plaintiffs have or may have contracted asbestos-related diseases as a result of exposure to asbestos products or equipment containing asbestos sold by one or more named defendants. Due to the noninformative nature of the complaints, we do not know whether any of the complaints state valid claims against us. Certain carriers have informed us 15 that the primary policies for the period August 1, 1970-1973, have been exhausted and that the carriers will no longer provide a defense under those policies. We have requested that the carriers substantiate this situation. We believe we have additional policies available for other years which have been ignored by the carriers. As settlement payments are applied to all years a litigant was deemed to have been exposed to asbestos, we believe when settlement payments are applied to these additional policies, we will have availability under the years deemed exhausted. If our insurance policies do not cover the costs and any awards for the asbestos-related lawsuits, we will have to use our cash or obtain additional financing to pay the asbestos-related obligations and settlement costs. There is no assurance that we will have the cash or be able to obtain additional financings on favorable terms to pay asbestos related obligations or settlements should they occur. The ultimate outcome of any legal matter cannot be predicted with certainty. In light of the significant uncertainty associated with asbestos lawsuits, there is no guarantee that these lawsuits will not materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile, which may make it difficult for shareholders to resell common stock when they want to and at prices they find attractive. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to be highly volatile, and there has been limited trading volume in the common stock. The common stock market price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including the following: • announcements of fluctuations in our or our competitors’ operating results; • the timing and announcement of sales or acquisitions of assets by us or our competitors; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • adverse or unfavorable publicity about our services or us; • the commencement of material litigation, or an unfavorable verdict, against us; • terrorist attacks, war and threats of attacks and war; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • sales of common stock. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Such volatility and decline has affected many companies irrespective of, or disproportionately to, the operating performance of these companies. These broad fluctuations and limited trading volume may materially adversely affect the market price of the common stock, and the ability to sell said common stock. Most of our outstanding shares are available for resale in the public market without restriction. The sale of a large number of these shares could adversely affect the share price and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity securities or make acquisitions for common stock. Terrorist attacks, war and threats of attacks and war may negatively impact our results of operations, revenue and common stock market price. Terrorist attacks, war and threats of attacks and war may negatively impact our results of operations, revenue and share price. Recent terrorist attacks in the United States, as well as future events occurring in response or in connection to them, including, without limitation, future terrorist attacks against United States targets and threats of war or actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies, may impact the our operations, including affecting our ability to operate our subsidiary’s abroad. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the economy. They could also 16 result in the deepening of the economic recession in the United States. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, revenue, and may result in the volatility of the market price for our common stock. “Anti-takeover” provisions may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to shareholders. We are a Pennsylvania corporation. Anti-takeover provisions in Pennsylvania law and our charter and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our. These provisions could adversely affect the market price of the common stock and could reduce the amount that shareholders might receive if we are sold. For example, our charter provides that the board of directors may issue preferred stock without shareholder approval. In addition, our bylaws provide for a classified board, with each board member serving a staggered three-year term. Directors may be removed only with the approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of all of the shares outstanding and entitled to vote. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential shareholders and customers could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business, the trading price of our stock and our ability to retain our current customers or obtain new customers. Beginning in fiscal 2004, we began a process to document and evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. In this regard, management has been dedicating internal resources, has engaged outside consultants and has adopted a detailed work plan to (i) assess and document the adequacy of internal controls over financial reporting, (ii) take steps to improve control processes, where appropriate, (iii) validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented and (iv) implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. At this time, we are not aware, and our outside auditors have not advised us, of any “material weaknesses” or “significant deficiencies” in our internal controls, as defined in the relevant literature. If we fail to identify and correct any issues in the design or operating effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential shareholders and customers could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business, the trading price of our stock and our ability to retain our current customers and obtain new customers. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 17 