Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information in this Form 10-K, including the risk factors listed below. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our Company. Additional risks not now known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any circumstances discussed in these risks actually occur or occur again, our business could be materially harmed. If our business is harmed, the trading price of our Common Stock could decline. This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We undertake no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this Form 10-K. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of a proxy fight and other actions of activist stockholders. An activist stockholder group has nominated a slate of eight individuals for election to replace our Board of Directors at the 2009 annual stockholders' meeting. Our business could be adversely affected because: •responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist stockholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our operations and diverting the attention of management and our employees; •if one-third of our Board ceases to be composed of existing directors or those individuals nominated by the existing directors, then a "change in control" in our 2007 Omnibus Incentive Plan will be triggered, potentially eliminating some of the long-term incentive feature of certain existing awards granted to our employees; •perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may impact our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel and affect existing and potential collaborations or strategic relationships; and •if individuals are elected to our Board of Directors with a specific agenda, it may adversely affect our ability to effectively and timely implement our strategic objectives. There are risks related to the investigation of past stock option practices and other accounting issues, and the related restatement of our prior financial results. In connection with our past stock option grant practices and other accounting issues requiring restatement, we have been subjected to a number of ongoing stockholder lawsuits, unable to file periodic reports with the SEC on a timely basis, and delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market. In addition, a number of our current and former directors and officers were also named in the lawsuits. We were also subject to an informal investigation by the SEC into our historical option grants and practices, which has subsequently been completed with the Staff of the SEC stating that it does not intend to recommend enforcement action. A description of the litigation and SEC inquiry is set forth in Item 3. "Legal Proceedings" of this Form 10-K. As a result of these events, we have been and remain subject to a number of risks, including the following, each of which could result in a material adverse effect to our business, financial condition and results of operations and/or a negative effect on the market for our stock: (i) private litigation relating to our restatement or option grant practices, including the pending or 12 Table of Contents new stockholder litigation; (ii) indemnification obligations for our current and former directors, officers and employees related to the litigation; (iii) currently unanticipated issues with respect to our restatement or our ability to become current in our periodic SEC reports that could materially delay our ability to achieve relisting on Nasdaq or another national securities exchange, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the liquidity of our Common Stock; (iv) additional significant costs in effectuating on-going or additional remediation actions or in dealing with any further litigation or unanticipated problems in attaining relisting of our shares on Nasdaq or another national securities exchange; and (v) diversion of the time and attention of members of our management and our Board of Directors from the management of our business. The matters relating to the independent investigation of our historical stock option granting practices and other accounting matters and the restatement of our financial statements have required, and may continue to require, a significant amount of management time and accounting, financial and legal resources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. On June 5, 2008, we announced the commencement of an internal investigation by the Special Committee of the Board of Directors into the Company's historical stock option practices and related accounting as well as other issues. The Special Committee determined that a significant number of our historical stock option grants were not correctly dated and our previous accounting should be adjusted. We have also adjusted our accounting to reflect the proper treatment of acquisitions of some of our European subsidiaries and how we account for the compensation of their management, as well as making adjustments for other accounting issues. As a result of the Special Committee's investigation and our own review of our historical financial statements, we concluded that our previously filed financial statements should no longer be relied upon. We have restated our financial results for previous periods by filing this Form 10-K, which includes restatements of the various previously filed financial statements as detailed herein. For a discussion of the investigation, its findings and the effects of this restatement on our previously filed financial statements, see Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Addressing all the matters related to the Special Committee's investigation and the financial restatement has required and will continue to require significant management and financial resources which could otherwise be devoted to the operation of our business. Further, considerable legal and accounting expenses in becoming current with our periodic reports and any settlements, payment of claims, fines, taxes and other costs of the investigation as detailed throughout these risk factors and this report have been incurred to date and significant expenditures may continue to be incurred in the future. In addition, the recent restatement of our financial results could impact our reputation, including our relationships with our suppliers, customers and stockholders, our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, our ability to enter into strategic transactions regarding our various businesses and, ultimately, our ability to generate revenue. We may suffer adverse tax consequences in connection with our historical stock option practices, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. As a result of our investigation into historical stock option practices, we have determined that certain options that had formerly been classified as incentive stock option ("ISO") grants did not qualify for such ISO tax treatment because the grants had an exercise price below the fair market value of our Common Stock on the actual measurement date. In addition, we could face penalties, certain payment obligations for our employees or other costs in connection with the treatment of certain stock options impacted by the deferred compensation rules under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (and other similar provisions of California and other state tax laws). These and other tax consequences related to our historical stock option practices could give rise to monetary liabilities for us and/or our current and former employees which may have to be satisfied in a future period. There can be no assurance that regulatory inquiries or actions will not be commenced by the IRS or other state or foreign regulatory 13 Table of Contents taxation authorities regarding the tax implications of our historical stock option practices. The unfavorable resolution of any potential tax regulatory proceeding or action could require us to make payments of overdue taxes, penalties and fines or otherwise record charges (or reduce tax assets) that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have not been in compliance with SEC reporting requirements and have been delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market, and we may continue to face compliance issues. If we are unable to return to or remain in compliance with SEC reporting requirements, there may be a material adverse effect on the Company and our stockholders. Due to the stock option investigation and resulting restatements, we have not been able to file all of our periodic reports with the SEC on a timely basis, and have not been able to hold an annual stockholders' meeting for 2008 or 2009, and our stock was delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market. The filing of this Form 10-K and the quarterly information contained herein covers certain information that would otherwise be presented in Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended June 30 and September 30, 2008. However, we have not yet filed our delinquent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31 and June 30, 2009. Further, if we choose to seek relisting with the Nasdaq Global Market or another national securities exchange, we will need to meet additional listing requirements, such as the Nasdaq Global Market's minimum price per share of $4.00. Even after filing all required reports with the SEC and holding a stockholders meeting, we may still face comments from the SEC that may require us to file amended reports. As a result of our failure to file this Form 10-K and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the second and third quarters of 2008 and first and second quarters of 2009 on a timely basis, we will not be eligible to use Form S-3 to register our securities with the SEC until all reports required under the Exchange Act have been timely filed for at least 12 months and other conditions are met. Our inability to use Form S-3 could increase the cost of raising capital through the issuance and sale of our equity or debt and the terms of any offering transaction may not be as favorable as they would have been if were eligible to use Form S-3. We have litigation outstanding related to the acquisition of Fiberxon, Inc. On March 25, 2009, we filed a complaint in the Superior Court of Los Angeles County, California, against former executives, directors and stockholders of Fiberxon, a subsidiary of MRV acquired in July 2007. The complaint seeks to recover damages in connection with the sale of Fiberxon to MRV and contains claims for breaches of representations and warranties made by Fiberxon's former stockholders and others under the acquisition agreement, and intentional misrepresentation in connection with the sale. MRV acquired Fiberxon using a combination of cash and shares of our Common Stock totaling approximately $99.4 million which the Company paid to Fiberxon's former stockholders at the closing of the acquisition. In addition, MRV agreed to pay up to $31.5 million in cash or shares of the Company's Common Stock, or a combination thereof (the "deferred consideration payment"), within 18 months of the receipt by us of Fiberxon's audited financial statements if Source Photonics did not complete an initial public offering of its common stock within such 18-month period. Source Photonics did not complete the initial public offering within such period which ended March 2009. MRV has not made any deferred consideration payment. The complaint alleges that we have incurred damages in excess of $31.5 million (in an amount to be finally determined through appropriate proceedings) as a result of the claims we allege in the complaint. The claims alleged in the complaint include, among other things, claims against former members of Fiberxon's management for breach of non-competition agreements and tortious interference with employee contracts. MRV believes that it complied with the contractual terms of the acquisition agreement by providing, within the time specified, requisite information regarding offsets against the deferred consideration payment, and its lawsuit seeks to recover damages in addition to those amounts. 14 Table of Contents We are currently in the process of negotiating in good faith with the seller's representative pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement that require such negotiation. The outcome of such discussions cannot be reliably predicted at this time. The results of any litigation are inherently uncertain and there can be no assurance that we will prevail in this litigation. Further, the defendants may deny our claims and assert claims seeking affirmative relief against the Company, including relief that seeks recovery of the deferred consideration payment. We plan to pursue our claims vigorously and expect the litigation potentially to be protracted and costly. If we lose this litigation, payment of the deferred consideration payment and other litigation costs would have a material adverse affect upon our financial condition and results of operations. Material weaknesses existed in our internal controls over financial reporting related to our not maintaining effective approval and review controls over non-routine transactions at the entity level and over the recording of transactions and the financial statement close process at our Source Photonics subsidiary. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC regulations require us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in each Annual Report on Form 10-K. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and report on, management's assessment of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. In assessing the findings of the voluntary review as well as the restatement of our previously reported financial statements, our management concluded that there were material weaknesses, as defined in the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board's Auditing Standard No. 5, in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. We have implemented certain controls, and are in the process of implementing additional controls, to remediate the material weaknesses identified. However, management believes these material weaknesses were not fully remediated as of December 31, 2008. See the discussion included in Item 9A. "Controls and Procedures" of this Form 10-K for additional information regarding our internal control over financial reporting. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. As a result, we cannot assure you that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding disclosure controls and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to timely meet our reporting obligations, and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. 15 Table of Contents We are exposed to risks associated with worldwide economic conditions and related uncertainties. Economic conditions, increased concerns about credit markets and consumer confidence, volatile corporate profits and reduced capital spending could negatively impact demand for our products. In particular, it is difficult to develop and implement strategy and sustainable business models, maintain efficient operations, and effectively manage supply chain relationships, in the face of such conditions. Our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan requires an effective planning and management process. In an economic downturn, we must effectively manage our spending and operations to ensure our position during the downturn to be able to capitalize for future opportunities when the economy improves. The failure to effectively manage our spending and operations could disrupt our business and harm our operating results. Our business could also be impacted by international conflicts, terrorist and military activity, civil unrest and pandemic illness which could cause a slowdown in customer orders or cause customer order cancellations. In addition, political and social turmoil related to international conflicts and terrorist acts may put further pressure on economic conditions in the United States and abroad. Unstable economic, political and social conditions make it difficult for our customers, our suppliers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. If such conditions persist, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuations, and you should not rely on them as an indication of our future performance. Our operating results could fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. Our operating results for a particular quarter are difficult to predict. Our revenue, gross margins and operating results could fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter and from year to year as a whole, and within our three business segments. This could result from any one or a combination of factors such as: •the cancellation or postponement of orders from one period to the next; •the timing and amount of significant orders; •the mix in any period of higher and lower margin products and services; •software, hardware or other errors in the products we sell requiring replacements or increased warranty reserves; •charges for excess or obsolete inventory; •our annual reviews of goodwill and other intangibles that lead to impairment charges; •the ability of our suppliers to produce and deliver components and parts, including sole or limited source components, in a timely manner, in the quantity and quality desired and at the prices we have budgeted; •readiness of customer sites for installation; •political stability in the areas of the world in which we operate; •price reductions that we make, such as marketing decisions that we have made in the past to reduce the price for our optical components to certain customers in an effort to secure long-term leadership in the market; •decreases in average selling prices of our products which, in addition to competitive factors and pressures from, or accommodations made to, significant customers, result from factors such as overcapacity and market conditions, the introduction of new and more technologically advanced products, and increased sales discounts; •the relative success of our efforts to continually reduce product manufacturing costs; 16 Table of Contents •our introduction of new products, with initial sales at relatively small volumes with resulting higher production costs, and the rate of market acceptance of the products; •delays or reductions in customer purchases of our products in anticipation of the introduction of new and enhanced products by us or our competitors; •the level of capital spending of our customers; •currency fluctuations; •the ability of our customers to pay for our products; •general economic conditions; •changes in conditions specific to our business segments; and •stockholder litigation related to our internal investigation of our practices related to historical stock option grants and other accounting issues and the related restatement of our financial statements. Moreover, the volume and timing of orders we receive during a quarter are difficult to forecast. Customers often view the purchase of our products as a significant and strategic decision. As a result, customers typically expend significant effort in evaluating, testing and qualifying our products and our manufacturing process. This customer evaluation and qualification process frequently results in a lengthy initial sales cycle of up to one year or more. We may also expend significant management effort, increase manufacturing capacity and order long lead-time components or materials prior to receiving an order. Further, our customers encounter uncertain and changing demand for their products. Customers generally order based on their forecasts. If demand falls below these forecasts or if customers do not control inventories effectively, they may cancel or reschedule shipments previously ordered from us even after acceptance of orders. We do not recognize revenue until a product has been shipped to a customer, all significant vendor obligations have been performed and collection is considered probable. Our expense levels during any particular period are based, in part, on expectations of future sales. If sales in a particular quarter do not meet expectations, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. We expect revenue and gross margins generally and for specific products to continue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year. Because of these and other factors, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. It is possible that, in future periods, our results of operations will be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. This failure to meet expectations could cause the trading price of our Common Stock to decline. Similarly, the failure by our competitors or customers to meet or exceed the results expected by their analysts or investors could, by association, cause our stock price to decline. Competition, especially in the network infrastructure and optical components markets, is ever increasing, which could reduce our revenue and gross margins or cause us to lose market share. The communications equipment and optical component industries are intensely competitive, and we must continually provide new products while dealing with increased price competition from low-cost producers in Asia. We compete directly with a number of established and emerging networking and optical components companies. Our direct competitors in networking products, switches and routers generally include: ADVA Optical Networks, Alcatel-Lucent, Allied Telesis Holdings KK, Brocade Communications Systems, Ciena Corporation, Cisco Systems, Inc., Extreme Networks, Huawei Technologies Inc. Nortel Networks Corporation and Raritan, Inc. Our competitors in fiber optic components include: Delta Electronics, Inc., EMCORE Corporation, ExceLight Communications, Inc., Finisar Corporation, JDS Uniphase Corporation, Ligent Photonics, Inc., NEC Corporation, NeoPhotonics Corp., Nokia Siemens Networks, Oplink Communications, Inc., Opnext, Inc., and Wuhan Telecommunication Devices Co., Ltd. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources and larger installed customer bases than we do. 17 Table of Contents Many of our larger competitors offer customers a broader product line, which provides a more comprehensive networking solution than we provide. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, sales and customer support organizations and other resources and larger installed customer bases than we have. Our competitors continually introduce or announce their intentions to introduce new competitive products, and may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. Many of our larger competitors offer customers broader product lines, which provide a more comprehensive networking solution than we provide. These companies can leverage their customer bases and broader product offerings and adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share. In addition, several of our competitors have large market capitalizations, substantially larger cash reserves, and are much better positioned than we are to acquire other companies in order to gain new technologies or products that may displace our product lines and give them a strategic advantage. Accordingly, in certain regional markets we have collaborated with other vendors in an effort to enhance our overall capability in providing products and services. Additional competitors may enter the market, and we are likely to compete with new companies in the future. Companies competing with us may introduce products that are more competitively priced, have increased performance or functionality, or incorporate technological advances that we have not yet developed or implemented, and may be able to react more quickly to changing customer requirements and expectations. There is also the risk that other network system vendors may enter or re-enter the subsystem market and begin to manufacture in-house the optical and networking subsystems incorporated into their network systems. We also expect to encounter potential customers that, because of existing relationships with our competitors, are committed to the products offered by these competitors. As a result of the foregoing factors, we expect that competitive pressures may result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share in our markets. Our markets are subject to rapid technological change, and to compete effectively, we must continually introduce new products that achieve market acceptance. The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. We expect that new technologies will emerge as competition and the need for higher and more cost effective transmission capacity, or bandwidth, increases. Our future performance will depend on the successful development, introduction and market acceptance of new and enhanced products that address these changes as well as current and potential customer requirements. The introduction of new and enhanced products may cause our customers to defer or cancel orders for existing products. We have in the past experienced delays in product development and these delays may occur in the future. Therefore, to the extent that customers defer or cancel orders in the expectation of a new product release or there is any delay in development or introduction of our new products or enhancements of our products, our operating results would suffer. During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, research and development expenses accounted for 7%, 7% and 8% of revenues, respectively. Introduction of new products and product enhancements will require that we effectively transfer production processes from research and development to manufacturing and coordinate our efforts with those of our suppliers to achieve volume production rapidly. If we fail to transfer production processes effectively, develop product enhancements or introduce new products in sufficient quantities to meet the needs of our customers as scheduled, our net sales may be reduced and our business may be harmed. We also may not be able to develop the underlying core technologies necessary to create new products and enhancements, or to license these technologies from third parties. Product development delays may result from numerous factors, including: •changing product specifications and customer requirements; 18 Table of Contents •difficulties in hiring and retaining necessary technical personnel; •difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations; •difficulties with contract manufacturers; •changing market or competitive product requirements; and •unanticipated engineering complexities. The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and highly skilled engineering and development personnel, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. In order to compete, we must be able to deliver to customers products that are highly reliable, operate with its existing equipment, lower the customer's costs of acquisition, installation and maintenance, and provide an overall cost-effective solution. We may not be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products successfully, if at all, or on a timely basis. Further, our new products may not gain market acceptance or we may not be able to respond effectively to product announcements by competitors, technological changes or emerging industry standards. Our failure to respond effectively to technological changes would significantly harm our business. Our products are deployed in large and complex systems and may contain defects that are not detected until after our products have been installed, which may cause us to incur significant costs, divert our attention from product development efforts or damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers. Our products are complex and undergo internal quality testing and qualification as well as formal qualification by our customers. However, defects may be found from time to time. Our customers' testing procedures are limited to evaluating our products under likely and foreseeable failure scenarios and over varying amounts of time. For various reasons, including among others, the occurrence of performance problems that are unforeseeable in testing or that are detected only when products age or are operated under peak stress conditions, our products may fail to perform as expected long after customer acceptance. Failures could result from faulty components or design, problems in manufacturing or other unforeseen reasons. As a result, we could incur significant costs to repair and/or replace defective products under warranty, particularly when such failures occur in installed systems. We have experienced such failures in the past and will continue to face this risk going forward, as our products are widely deployed throughout the world in multiple demanding environments and applications. In addition, we may in certain circumstances honor warranty claims after the warranty period has expired or for problems not covered by warranty in order to maintain customer relationships. Although we have limited by contract the types of damages customers may seek in conjunction with a warranty claim, Fiberxon, a subsidiary we acquired in 2007, did not do so prior to its acquisition by us and as a result we currently bear increased exposure to damages upon claims related to historical Fiberxon products. We believe that our warranty reserves adequately address our potential exposure to liability for warranty claims. Our warranty reserves are based on historical return rates, our average material costs incurred to repair items, including labor costs, and, with respect to Fiberxon, the lack of contractual limitations on such claims in some instances. The warranty reserves are evaluated and adjusted based on updated experience. In addition, our optical component products and certain of our data networking products are typically embedded in, or deployed in conjunction with, our customers' products, which incorporate a variety of components and may be expected to interoperate with modules produced by third parties. As a result, not all defects are immediately detectable and when problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These problems may cause us to incur significant damages or warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts, cause significant customer relation problems or loss of customers, and harm our reputation and brand, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business. 19 Table of Contents Although we were profitable on a consolidated basis in the second quarter of 2008, we have not achieved profitability on a consolidated basis for a full year since 2004 and may not achieve profitability in the future. Although we were profitable on a consolidated basis in the second quarter of 2008, we reported net losses for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, and have not achieved profitability on a consolidated basis for a full year since 2004. We anticipate continuing to incur significant product development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses and, as a result, we will need to continue our efforts to contain expense levels and increase revenue levels in an effort to achieve profitability in future fiscal quarters and years. To date in 2009, we have incurred additional significant charges related to the investigation and restatement of our financial statements, related expenses, and expect to incur significant expenses in the proxy contest for the election of directors in the 2009 annual meeting due to the running of a competing slate of directors by activist stockholders. We may not be successful in our efforts to contain expense levels and increase revenue levels and we may not attain profitability on a sustained basis or at all. Our customers may adopt alternate technologies for which we do not produce products or for which our products are not adaptable. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and new product introductions, which may minimize the demand for our existing products or render them obsolete. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance existing products and to develop and introduce new products that address such changes in technology and standards and respond to our customers' potential desire to adopt such technologies in place of those supported by our current product offerings. The development of new or enhanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends as well as precise technological execution. Further, the development cycle for products integrating new technologies or technologies with which we are not as familiar may be longer and more costly than our current product development process. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these new products, and the new products may not be successfully commercialized. These costs and delays may prevent us from being able to establish a market position with respect to such new technologies and industry standards or be as responsive as we would like to be in meeting our customers' demands for such products, thus adversely affecting our results of operations and our customer relationships. If our customers do not qualify our products or if their customers do not qualify their products, our results of operations may suffer. Some of our customers purchase our products prior to qualification and satisfactory completion of factory audits and vendor evaluation. Our existing products, as well as each new product, must pass through varying levels of qualification with our customers. In addition, because of rapid technological changes in our market, a customer may cancel or modify a design project before we begin large-scale manufacture of the product and receive revenue from the customer. It is unlikely that we would be able to recover the expenses for cancelled or unutilized custom design projects. It is difficult to predict with any certainty whether our customers will delay or terminate product qualification or the frequency with which customers will cancel or modify their projects, but any such delay, cancellation or modification could have a negative effect on our results of operations. If network service providers that purchase equipment or systems from our customers fail to qualify or delay qualifications of our customers' equipment or systems that contain our products, our business could be harmed. Qualification and field-testing of our customers' systems by network service providers is long and unpredictable. This process is not under the control of our company or our customers, and, as a result, timing of our sales is unpredictable. Any unanticipated delay in qualification of one of our customers' network systems could result in the delay or cancellation of orders from our customers for 20 Table of Contents components and systems included in the applicable network system and could harm our results of operations. Our customers may elect to in-source production of certain components they traditionally have purchased from us, resulting in decreases in our revenue. Our revenue may decrease if certain of our direct and indirect significant customers, such as Tellabs and Verizon, respectively, or a substantial number of our customers overall, chose to in-source production of the various types of components they currently purchase from us. If we cannot find alternate customers to purchase such components going forward, we may suffer not only a reduction in revenue, but may also have excess capacity in our production facilities and underutilized employees, undermining the overall efficiency and productivity of our operations. We do not have long-term volume purchase contracts with our customers, so our customers may increase, decrease, cancel or delay their buying levels at any time with minimal advance notice to us, which may significantly harm our business. Our customers typically purchase our products pursuant to individual purchase orders. While our customers generally provide us with their demand forecasts, in most cases they are not contractually committed to buy any quantity of products beyond firm purchase orders. Our customers may increase, decrease, cancel or delay purchase orders already in place. If any of our major customers decrease, stop or delay purchasing our products for any reason, our business and results of operations would be harmed. Cancellation or delays of such orders may cause us to fail to achieve our short- and long-term financial and operating goals. Lead times for components and materials that we order vary significantly and depend on factors including the specific supplier requirements, the size of the order, contract terms and current market demand for components. For substantial increases in our sales levels, some of our suppliers may need significant lead time. In the past, during periods of severe market downturns, certain of our largest customers canceled significant orders with us and with our competitors, which resulted in losses of sales and excess and obsolete inventory, that led to inventory and asset disposals throughout the industry. Similarly, decreases or deferrals of purchases by our customers may significantly harm our industry and specifically our business in these and in additional unforeseen ways, particularly if they are not anticipated. We may suffer losses as a result of entering into fixed price contracts. From time to time we enter into contracts with certain customers in which the price we charge for particular products is fixed. Although our estimated production costs for these products are used to compute fixed sales prices, if actual production costs exceed the estimated production costs because of our inability to obtain needed components timely, or at all, or we cannot continue to cut costs in production and have incrementally decreased future fixed prices, or for other reasons, we may incur a loss on the sale. Sales of material amounts of products on a fixed price basis, for which we have not accurately forecasted the production costs, could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. A few customers account for a substantial portion of our sales, increasing both our dependence on a single revenue source and the risk that our operations will suffer materially if a significant customer stops ordering from us or substantially reduces its business with us. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, no customer accounted for 10 percent or more of our revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we had one customer, Tellabs, Inc., an original equipment manufacturer for Verizon Communications, Inc., which accounted for 13% of our total revenues. While our financial performance for 2008, 2007 and 2006 benefited from substantial sales to Tellabs, because of the magnitude of sales to that customer, our results would suffer if we were to lose their business. Additionally, if Tellabs made a substantial reduction in orders, or Verizon switched 21 Table of Contents OEMs to a company that was not our customer, our results of operations would suffer unless we were able to replace the customer or orders with one or more customers of comparable size. Our sales are made on credit and our results of operations would be adversely affected if a significant customer were to experience unexpected financial reversals resulting in it being unable to pay for our products. The market for network infrastructure fiber optic products is dominated by a small number of large companies. Through consolidation with other equipment and component suppliers, some of these companies are growing larger with greater resources than we have to devote to development, promotion, sale and support of their products. Consolidation is also affecting customers in the network infrastructure fiber optic products market. Consolidation reduces the number of existing and potential customers and may increase our dependence on certain customers. Our ability to utilize our NOLs and certain other tax attributes may be limited. As of December 31, 2008, we had net operating losses, or NOLs, of approximately $196.6 million for federal income tax purposes and approximately $155.1 million for state income tax purposes. We also had capital loss carry forwards totaling $14.5 million as of December 31, 2008, which begin to expire in 2009. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, if a corporation undergoes an "ownership change," the corporation's ability to use its pre-change NOLs, capital loss carry forwards and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income, may be limited. An ownership change is generally defined as a greater than 50% change in its equity ownership by value over a three-year period. We may experience an ownership change in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership. If we were to trigger an ownership change in the future, our ability to use any NOLs and capital loss carry forwards existing at that time could be limited. We face risks in reselling the products of other companies. We distribute products manufactured by other companies. To the extent we succeed in reselling the products of these companies, or products of other vendors with which we may enter into similar arrangements, we may be required by customers to assume warranty and service obligations. While these suppliers have agreed to support us with respect to those obligations, if they should be unable, for any reason, to provide the required support, we may have to expend our own resources on doing so. We are unable to evaluate fully the potential magnitude of these warranty claims as the equipment has been designed and manufactured by others. There is a limited number of potential source suppliers for certain components, which makes us susceptible to supply shortages. We currently purchase several key components from single or limited sources. Moreover, we depend on the quality of the products supplied to us, over which we have limited control. We have encountered shortages and delays in obtaining components in the past and expect to encounter shortages and delays in the future. If we cannot supply products due to a lack of certain components, or are unable to redesign products with other components, in a timely manner, our business will be significantly harmed. In our fiber optic components business particularly, customers generally restrict our ability to change the component parts in our modules without their approval. For less critical components, this may require as little as a specification comparison. For more critical components, such as lasers, photodetectors and key integrated circuits, this may result in repeating the entire qualification process. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for key components that we have qualified to use in the manufacture of certain of our products. Some of these components are available only from a sole source or have been qualified only from a single supplier. We typically have not entered into long-term agreements with our suppliers and, therefore, our suppliers could stop supplying materials and equipment at any time or fail to supply adequate quantities of component parts on a timely basis. It is difficult, costly, time consuming and, on short notice, sometimes impossible for us to identify and qualify 22 Table of Contents new component suppliers. The reliance on a sole supplier, single qualified vendor or limited number of suppliers could result in delivery and quality problems, reduced control over product pricing, reliability and performance and an inability to identify and qualify another supplier in a timely manner. We have in the past had to change suppliers, which, in some instances, has resulted in delays in product development and manufacturing until another supplier was found and qualified. Any such delays in the future may limit our ability to respond to changes in customer and market demands. During the last several years, the number of suppliers of components has decreased significantly and, more recently, demand for components has increased. Any supply deficiencies relating to the quality or quantities of components we use to manufacture our products could adversely affect our ability to fulfill customer orders and our results of operations. Our inability to achieve adequate production yields for certain components could result in a loss of sales and customers or higher than expected costs. We rely heavily on our own production capability for critical semiconductor lasers and light emitting diodes used in our products. Because we manufacture these and other key components at our own facilities and these components are not readily available from other sources, any interruption of our manufacturing processes could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Furthermore, we have a limited number of employees dedicated to the operation and maintenance of our wafer fabrication equipment, the loss of whom could result in our inability to effectively operate and service this equipment. Wafer fabrication is sensitive to many factors, including variations and impurities in the raw materials, the fabrication process, performance of the manufacturing equipment, defects in the masks used to print circuits on the wafer, and the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment. We may not be able to maintain acceptable production yields or avoid product shipment delays. In the event adequate production yields are not achieved, resulting in product shipment delays, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Manufacturing yields depend on a number of factors, including the stability and manufacturability of the product design, manufacturing improvements gained over cumulative production volumes, the quality and consistency of component parts, and the nature and extent of customization requirements by customers. Higher volume demand for more mature designs requiring less customization generally results in higher manufacturing yields than products with lower volumes, less mature designs and extensive customization. Capacity constraints, raw materials shortages, logistics issues, the introduction of new product lines and changes in our customer requirements, manufacturing facilities or processes, or those of our third party contract manufacturers and component suppliers, have historically caused, and may in the future cause, significantly reduced manufacturing yields. This would negatively impact the gross margins on such products and negatively impact our production capacity for those products. Our ability to maintain sufficient manufacturing yields is particularly important with respect to certain products we manufacture such as lasers and photodetectors as a consequence of the long manufacturing process. Moreover, an increase in the rejection and rework rate of products during the quality control process before, during or after manufacture would result in lower yields, gross margins and production capacity. Finally, manufacturing yields and margins can also be lower if we receive and inadvertently use defective or contaminated materials from our suppliers. Because a significant portion of our manufacturing costs is relatively fixed, manufacturing yields may have a significant effect on our results of operations. Lower than expected manufacturing yields could delay product shipments and decrease our revenue and gross margins. 23 Table of Contents We rely substantially upon a limited number of contract manufacturing partners, and if these contract manufacturers fail to meet our short- and long-term needs and contractual obligations, our business may be negatively impacted. We rely to a significant extent on a limited number of contract manufacturers to assemble, manufacture and test our products. The qualification and set up of these independent manufacturers under quality assurance standards is an expensive and time-consuming process. Certain of our independent manufacturers have a limited history of manufacturing optical modules or other components we use in our products and equipment. In the past, we have experienced delays or other problems, such as inferior quality, insufficient quantity of product and an inability to meet cost targets, which have led to delays in our ability to fulfill customer orders. Additionally, in the past, we have been required to qualify new contract manufacturing partners and replace contract manufacturers, which led to delays in deliveries. Any future interruption in the operations of these manufacturers, or any deficiency in the quality, quantity or timely delivery of the components or products built for us by these manufacturers, could impede our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our customers or require us to contract with and qualify new contract manufacturing partners. As a result, we may lose existing or potential customers or orders and our business may be negatively impacted. If we fail to forecast component and material requirements accurately for our manufacturing facilities, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays. We use rolling forecasts based on anticipated product orders to determine our component requirements. It is very important that we accurately predict both the demand for our products and the lead times required to obtain the necessary components and materials. Lead times for components and materials that we order vary significantly and depend on factors such as specific supplier requirements, the size of the order, contract terms and current market demand for the components. For substantial increases in production levels, some suppliers may need six months or more lead time. If we overestimate our component and material requirements, we may have excess or obsolete inventory, which may not get used or have to be discounted to eliminate. If we underestimate our component and material requirements, we may have inadequate inventory, which could interrupt our manufacturing and delay delivery of our products to our customers. Any of these occurrences would negatively impact our revenue. We face increased risks associated with the consolidation of our PRC-based manufacturing operations in a single location in Chengdu, PRC. Historically, we have manufactured most of our products in Taiwan, with some reliance on contract manufacturers in China as well, and Fiberxon manufactured its products in China. We are in the process of consolidating our PRC-based manufacturing operations at a single location in Chengdu, PRC. We believe that the consolidation process should be completed during the first half of 2010. We could experience delays if we are not able to transition our staff and equipment to our new facilities efficiently, and such delays could result in short-term reductions in our production capabilities or an inability to increase production consistent with our long-term plans. In addition, we may experience higher manufacturing losses and lower gross margins due to the need to maintain older production lines while at the same time incurring expenses related to the consolidation process. Once the consolidation effort is complete, we will face increased risk of loss from any disruption of operations in Chengdu affecting our consolidated facility. Damage to our Chengdu manufacturing facility due to fire, contamination, natural disaster, power loss, unauthorized entry or other events could force us to cease manufacturing our products, resulting in loss of revenue and breached customer contracts. In addition, if the facility or the equipment in the facility is significantly damaged or destroyed for any reason, we may be unable to reallocate efficiently or replace our manufacturing capacity for an extended period of time, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents Although our current manufacturing facilities each have a disaster recovery plan, and we adopted a similar plan for the consolidated Chengdu facility, we cannot assure you that efforts will proceed according to such plans or that the plans adequately address all potential risks and outcomes. In addition, if the governmental regulations and special incentives pursuant to which we have negotiated use of our facility in Chengdu change, the perceived benefits from such consolidation of our PRC-based manufacturing efforts in Chengdu may not be realized fully or at all. Our business and future operating results may be adversely affected by events outside of our control. Our insurance coverage for natural disasters is limited. We use our facilities in Chatsworth, California for major product design and development and customer support, and we manufacture products at our facilities in Taiwan and China. The risk of earthquakes in Southern California and Taiwan is significant because of the proximity of these manufacturing facilities to major earthquake fault lines. In January 1994 and September 1999, major earthquakes near Chatsworth and in Taiwan, respectively, affected our facilities, causing power and communications outages and disruptions that impaired production capacity. While our facilities did not suffer material damage and our business was not materially disrupted by these earthquakes, the occurrence of an earthquake or other natural disaster could result in the disruption of our manufacturing facilities. Any disruption in our manufacturing facilities arising from earthquakes, other natural disasters or other catastrophic events including wildfires and other fires, excessive rain, terrorist attacks and wars, could disrupt our manufacturing ability, which could harm our operations and financial results, and could cause significant delays in the production or shipment of our products until we are able to shift production to different facilities or arrange for third parties to manufacture our products. We may not be able to obtain alternate capacity on favorable terms or at all. The location of our manufacturing facilities in Southern California, Taiwan and China subjects us to increased risk that a natural disaster could disrupt our operations. Although we believe our insurance coverage is adequate to address the variety of potential liabilities we face, our insurance coverage is subject to deductibles and coverage limits. Upon an occurrence of significant natural disaster, such coverage may not be adequate or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. In the event of a major earthquake or other disaster affecting one or more of our facilities, our operations could be significantly disrupted, delayed or prevented. for the time required to transfer production, repair, rebuild or replace the affected manufacturing facilities. This time frame could be lengthy, and result in significant expenses for repair and related costs. In addition, concerns about terrorism or an outbreak of epidemic diseases such as avian or swine influenza or severe acute respiratory syndrome, could have a negative effect on travel and our business operations, and result in adverse consequences to our business and results of operations. Environmental regulations applicable to our manufacturing operations could limit our ability to expand or subject us to substantial costs. Compliance with current and future environmental regulations may be costly which could impact our future operating results. We are subject to a variety of environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals used during our manufacturing processes. Further, we are subject to other safety, labeling and training regulations as required by foreign, local, state and federal law. We believe we are compliant in all material respects with applicable environmental regulations in the United States, Taiwan and China. However, any failure by us to comply with present and future regulations, could subject us to future liabilities or the suspension of production. In addition, such regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities and we may need to acquire costly equipment or incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations. We cannot provide assurance that legal requirements will not be imposed on us that would require additional capital expenditures or the satisfaction of other requirements. If we fail to obtain required permits or otherwise fail to operate within 25 Table of Contents current or future legal requirements, including those applicable to us in the United States, Taiwan and China where we maintain facilities, we may be required to pay substantial penalties, suspend our operations, or make costly changes to our manufacturing processes or facilities. In addition, we could face significant costs and liabilities in connection with legislation which enables customers to return a product at the end of its useful life and charges us with financial and other responsibility for environmentally safe collection, recycling, treatment and disposal. We also face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and upcoming requirements relating to the materials composition of our products. This includes the restrictions on lead and certain other substances in electronics that apply to specified electronics products put on the market in the European Union. The labeling provisions of similar legislation in China went into effect on March 1, 2007. Many of our customers have adopted this approach and have required our full compliance. Even though we have devoted a significant amount of resources and effort planning and executing our compliance program and believe that we are in compliance with such legislation, it is possible that some of our products might be incompatible with such regulations. In such event, we could experience loss of revenue, damaged reputation, diversion of resources, monetary penalties and legal action. Other environmental regulations may require us to re-engineer our products to utilize components that are more environmentally compatible. Such re-engineering and component substitution may result in additional costs to us. Although we currently do not anticipate any material adverse effects based on the nature of our operations and the effect of such laws, there is no assurance that such existing laws or future laws will not have a material adverse effect on us. We may be faced with product liability claims. Despite quality assurance measures, there remains a risk that defects may occur in our products. The occurrence of any defects in our products could give rise to liability for damages caused by such defects. Defects could, moreover, impair the market's acceptance of our products. Both could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Although we carry product liability insurance, and believe such coverage is adequate based on the historical rate and nature of customer product quality claims or complaints, we cannot provide assurance that this insurance would adequately cover our costs arising from any significant defects in our products. Our business and future operating results are subject to a wide range of uncertainties arising out of the international nature of our operations and facilities. International sales are a significant part of our business. The following table summarizes the percentage of total revenues from sales to customers outside the United States. for the last three years Years ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Percentage of revenues from international sales 68 % 68 % 67 % We have offices and facilities in, and conduct a significant portion of our operations in and from Israel, China and Taiwan, and outsource substantial manufacturing to third-party contract manufacturers in China. We are, therefore, influenced by the political and economic conditions affecting these countries. Risks we face from international sales and our use of facilities and suppliers overseas for manufacturing include: •greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; •the impact of recessions in economies outside the United States; •changes in regulatory requirements; 26 Table of Contents •seasonal reductions in business activities in some parts of the world, such as during the summer months in Europe or in the winter months in Asia when the Chinese Lunar New Year is celebrated; •difficulties in managing operations across disparate geographic areas; •difficulties associated with enforcing agreements through foreign legal systems; •the payment of operating expenses in local currencies, which exposes us to risks of currency exchange rate fluctuations; •higher credit risks requiring cash in advance or letters of credit; •potentially adverse tax consequences, increasing taxes, and heightened efforts by officials of foreign countries to increase revenues from tax collection; •increasing labor costs or other cost increases; •unavailability or delays in delivery of equipment, raw materials or key components; •trade restrictions, tariff increases and increasing import-export duties; •shipping delays; •limited protection of intellectual property rights; •tightening immigration controls that may adversely affect the residency status of our engineers and other key employees in our U.S. facilities who are not permanent U.S. residents, or our ability to hire new non-U.S. employees in our U.S. facilities; •increasing U.S. and foreign environmental regulation or unforseen environmental problems; and •personnel recruitment delays or the inability to obtain skilled technical, financial and management personnel needed in countries where we have facilities, such as China. Our business and operations are also subject to general geopolitical conditions, such as terrorism, political and economic instability, changes in the costs of key resources such as crude oil and changes in diplomatic or trade relationships. Economic conditions in several countries and markets outside the United States. in which we have offices, personnel, facilities or sales represent significant risks to us. Instability in the Middle East, China or the European Union could have a negative impact on our sales and operations in these regions, and unstable conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and other turmoil in the Middle East and the global war on terror also may have negative effects on our business operations, including our U.S. operations. For example, heightened U.S. security concerns on domestic and international travel and commerce may result in increased immigration controls that could impact the residency status of our non-U.S. engineers and other key employees working in our U.S. facilities. In addition to the effect of global economic instability on our operations or facilities on sales to customers outside the United States, sales to domestic customers could be negatively impacted by these conditions. Labor shortages or strikes in Southern China could adversely affect our gross margins or decrease revenues. Historically, there has been an abundance of labor in Southern China, but over the last few years, factories in Southern China, particularly in Shenzhen and to a lesser extent in Chengdu, where our manufacturing facilities are located, are to varying degrees facing a labor shortage as migrant workers and middle level management seek better wages and working conditions elsewhere. Further, some of our employees in Chengdu are represented by unions. This trend of labor shortages is expected to continue, fueled by the effects of the one-child policy imposed by the Chinese government over the past 27 Table of Contents three decades and will likely result in increasing wages as companies seek to keep their existing work forces. Continuing labor shortages or strikes can be expected to adversely impact our future operating results by, for example, preventing us from manufacturing at peak capacity and forcing us to increase wages and benefits to attract the diminishing pool of available workers. This could result in lower revenue or increased manufacturing costs, which would adversely affect gross margins. Our operating results have been impacted by foreign exchange rates and our activities seeking to hedge against currency exchange and interest rate fluctuations. The majority of our sales are currently denominated in U.S. dollars. As we conduct business in several different countries, we have benefited from sales made in currencies other than the U.S. dollar because of the weakness of the U.S. dollar relative to the currencies in which these sales have been made. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates can and do cause our products to become relatively more expensive in particular countries, leading to a reduction in sales in that country. In addition, inflation or fluctuations in currency exchange or interest rates in these countries could increase our expenses and thereby adversely affect our operating results. Related to our Optical Components business, foreign currency fluctuations between the Chinese RMB and the U.S. dollar may affect our total revenue going forward and, if present trends continue in China, could significantly affect our operating results. Approximately 19% of combined revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 were denominated in RMB. Approximately 46% of total operating costs and expenses for the same period were incurred in RMB. Through one of our foreign subsidiaries, we periodically enter into foreign exchange and interest rate swap contracts to protect against currency exchange risks related to purchase commitments denominated in foreign currencies other than their functional currency, primarily the U.S. dollar, and to hedge exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Net unrealized gains from these activities during the year ended December 31, 2007 amounted to $552,000. We could incur losses from these or other hedging activities in the future. We face risks inherent in doing business in China. As our operations in China assume a larger and more important role in our business, the risks inherent in doing business in China will become more acute. Many of these risks specific to doing business in China are beyond our control, including: •difficulties in obtaining domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; •compliance with PRC laws, including employment laws; such as the changes in the PRC's labor law restricting our ability to reduce our workforce in China as necessary, which could increase our manufacturing costs and those of the contract manufacturers we use in China; •difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including cultural differences in the conduct of business, labor and other workforce requirements and inadequate local infrastructure; •Restrictions and taxes related to the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries in the PRC to us under PRC law; •Political or trade controversies between China and the United States; and •Increased taxes in China because of the discontinuation of certain preferential tax treatments that were available to foreign enterprises prior to January 1, 2008. Any of these factors could harm our future revenues, gross margins and operations significantly. Moreover, the political tension between Taiwan and the PRC that continues to exist could eventually lead 28 Table of Contents to hostilities, or there may be regulatory issues with either the PRC or Taiwan as a result of our having operations or business interests in both countries. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We could suffer losses from corrupt or fraudulent business practices. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which generally prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In addition, we are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent our transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions, and therefore may have a competitive advantage over us. Prior to the completion of the acquisition, Fiberxon's management and employees were not subject to the FCPA. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices are common in the PRC. We have implemented and maintained preventative measures, but cannot assure that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct and render us responsible under the FCPA. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in these practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our cash flow deteriorates in the future, our liquidity and ability to operate our business could be adversely affected. We may not be able to obtain capital when desired on favorable terms, if at all. We incurred net losses in each of the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, and our combined cash and short-term investments declined in 2007 and 2008. Excluding the private placement of approximately 19.9 million shares of our Common Stock we issued to a group of institutional investors in 2006, which resulted in proceeds of $69.9 million, our combined cash, cash equivalents, time deposits and short-term and long-term marketable securities would have declined during the year ended December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2008, our cash, cash equivalents, time deposits and marketable securities totaled $81.6 million and declined by approximately $4.8 million, or six percent, since December 31, 2007. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or otherwise have the capital resources to meet our future capital needs. If this occurs, we may need additional financing to execute on our current or future business strategies, including to: •satisfy our potential deferred consideration obligation of up to $31.5 million (excluding applicable offsets), to the former stockholders of Fiberxon, which was due March 28, 2009; •acquire complementary businesses or technologies; •enhance our operating infrastructure; •hire additional technical, sales and other personnel; •make investments in capital equipment, facilities and technology; •expand our manufacturing facilities; •fund our working capital requirements; or •otherwise respond to competitive pressures. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of our Common Stock or convertible securities, or if we elect to satisfy our potential deferred consideration obligation to Fiberxon's former stockholders 29 Table of Contents using shares of our Common Stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted. If our cash flow significantly deteriorates in the future, our liquidity and ability to operate our business could be adversely affected. For example, our ability to raise financial capital may be hindered due to our net losses and the possibility of future negative cash flow. We cannot provide assurance that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, if and when needed, our ability to fund our operations, satisfy our deferred consideration obligation, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance our products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures, could be significantly limited. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, we may not be able to compete. We rely on a combination of trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure and patents, copyrights and trademarks to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that our pending patent applications will be approved, that any patents that may be issued will protect our intellectual property or that third parties will not challenge any issued patents. Other parties may independently develop similar or competing technology or design around any patents that may be issued to us. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Specifically in the PRC there is a risk of poor enforcement of intellectual property rights. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in China is uncertain and still evolving, and PRC laws may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of some other jurisdictions. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable competitors, especially in the PRC, to benefit from our technologies without paying us any royalties. Any of this kind of litigation, regardless of outcome, could be expensive and time consuming, and adverse determinations in any of this kind of litigation could seriously harm our business. We could in the future become subject to litigation regarding intellectual property rights, or we could initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights to protect these rights. From time to time, third parties, including our competitors, may assert patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us. Over the years, we have received notices from third parties alleging possible infringement of patents with respect to certain features of our products or our manufacturing processes and in connection with these notices have been involved in discussions with the claimants. To date, our aggregate revenues potentially subject to the foregoing claims have not been material. However, these or other companies may pursue litigation with respect to these or other claims. The results of any litigation are inherently uncertain. In the event of an adverse result in any litigation with respect to intellectual property rights relevant to our products that could arise in the future, we could be required to obtain licenses to the infringing technology, to pay substantial damages under applicable law, to cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products or to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology. Licenses may not be available from third parties either on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In the future, we may be a party to litigation to protect our intellectual property or as a result of an alleged infringement of others' intellectual property. These claims and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages or invalidation of our proprietary rights. These lawsuits, regardless of their success, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management time and attention. In addition, litigation frequently involves substantial expenditures and can require significant management attention, even if we ultimately prevail. Accordingly, any infringement claim or litigation against us could significantly harm our business, 30 Table of Contents operating results and financial condition. Such claims or litigation could be costly, subject us to significant liability, and divert our technical and management personnel. We do not have insurance to cover potential claims of this type. Our business requires us to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our ability to develop, manufacture and market our products, run our operations and our ability to compete with our current and future competitors depend, and will depend, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Competition for executives and qualified personnel in the networking and fiber optics industries is intense, and we will be required to compete for those personnel with companies having substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. We are dependent upon Noam Lotan, our Chief Executive Officer, and Shlomo Margalit, our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Technical Officer. The loss of the services of either of these officers could have a material adverse effect on us. To retain these officers, we have entered into employment agreements with them, and we are the beneficiary of a key person life insurance policy in the amount of $1.0 million on Mr. Lotan's life. We give no assurances that the employment agreements will retain these officers or that the proceeds from the insurance policy will be sufficient to compensate us in the event of Mr. Lotan's death. Further, the policy is not applicable in the event that Mr. Lotan becomes disabled or is otherwise unable to render services to us. We may enter into similar arrangements in the future to attract and retain qualified executives. If we should be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business could be materially adversely affected. Delaware law and our ability to issue preferred stock may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control, which may cause our stock price to decline. We are authorized to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock. This Preferred Stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by our Board of Directors without further action by stockholders. The terms of any series of Preferred Stock may include voting rights (including the right to vote as a series on particular matters), preferences as to dividend, liquidation, conversion and redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. No Preferred Stock is currently outstanding. The issuance of any Preferred Stock could materially adversely affect the rights of the holders of our Common Stock, and therefore, reduce the value of our Common Stock. In particular, specific rights granted to future holders of Preferred Stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell our assets to, a third party and thereby preserve control by the present management. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibit us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder unless the business combination is approved in the manner prescribed under Section 203. These provisions of Delaware law also may discourage delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us, which may cause the market price of our Common Stock to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 