Risk Factors.” As stated elsewhere in this Annual Report, such risks, uncertainties and other important factors relate to, among others: • retention of qualified professionals and senior management; • conflicts resulting in our inability to represent certain clients; • former employees joining competing businesses; • ability to manage utilization and pricing rates; • ability to integrate the operations of FD International (Holdings) Limited; • ability to adapt to operating in non-U.S. markets; • ability to replace senior managers and practice leaders who have highly specialized skills and experience; • ability to find suitable acquisition candidates or take advantage of opportunistic acquisition situations; • fluctuations in revenues, operating income and cash flows; • compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • damage to our reputation as a result of claims involving the quality of our services; • unexpected terminations of client engagements; • competition; • costs of integrating recent and any future acquisitions; • industry trends; • ability to manage growth; • changes in demand for our services; • non-payment of notes receivable; and • changes in our leverage. 2 Table of Contents There may be other factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf apply only as of the date of this Annual Report and are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements included herein. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances and do not intend to do so. When we use the terms “FTI,” “we,” “us” and “our” we mean FTI Consulting, Inc., a Maryland corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. Company Overview and Recent Developments We are a leading global consulting firm to organizations confronting the critical legal, financial and reputational issues that shape their futures. Our experienced teams of professionals, many of whom are widely recognized as experts in their respective fields, provide high-caliber consulting services to a broad range of clients. We believe clients retain us because of our recognized expertise and capabilities in highly specialized areas, as well as our reputation for satisfying clients’ needs. Our professionals have experience providing services in many areas, including: fraud, damages, lost profits, valuation, anti-trust and anti-competition, accountant’s liability and malpractice, contract disputes, patent infringement, price fixing, purchase price disputes, solvency and insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, preferences, disclosure statements, trademark and copyright infringement, the financial impact of government regulations and electronically stored information and repository services. We have strong capabilities in highly specialized industries, including telecommunications, healthcare, transportation, utilities, chemicals, energy, commercial and investment banking, pharmaceuticals, tobacco, retail and information technology. With the acquisition of FD International (Holdings) Limited, or FD, in October 2006, we also have strong capabilities providing strategic and financial communications consulting services. As of December 31, 2006, we had 2,079 total employees and 1,596 revenue-generating professionals. As of December 31, 2006, we had operations across 29 U.S. cities, as well as the U.K., Ireland, France, Russia, Australia, China, Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore, United Arab Emirates and South Africa. In January 2007, we added offices in Argentina and Brazil. We operate through the five business segments listed below. Forensic/Litigation Consulting Our forensic/litigation consulting practice provides an extensive range of services to assist clients in all phases of investigation and litigation, including pre-filing, discovery, jury selection, trial preparation, expert testimony and other trial support services. Specifically, we help clients assess complex financial transactions, reconstruct events from incomplete and/or corrupt data, uncover vital evidence, identify potential claims and assist in the pursuit of financial recoveries and settlements. We also provide asset tracing and fraud investigation services. Our graphics services at trial and technology and electronic evidence experts assist clients in preparing for and presenting their cases in court. Through the use of proprietary information technology, we have demonstrated our ability to help control litigation costs, expedite the trial process and provide our clients with the ability to readily organize and access case-related data. Our international risk and investigations group provides business intelligence and investigations, corporate investigations, litigation and dispute investigations and integrity advisory services. As of December 31, 2006, we had 388 revenue-generating professionals in our forensic/litigation consulting practice. Corporate Finance/Restructuring Consulting Our corporate finance/restructuring consulting practice provides turnaround, performance improvement, lending solutions, financial and operational restructuring, restructuring advisory, mergers and acquisitions, 3 Table of Contents transaction advisory and interim management services. We analyze, recommend and implement strategic alternatives for our corporate finance/restructuring clients, offering services such as interim management in turnaround situations, rightsizing infrastructure, assessing long-term enterprise viability and business strategy consulting. We assist underperforming companies as they make decisions to improve their financial condition and operations. We lead and manage the financial aspects of in-court restructuring processes by offering services that include an assessment of the impact of a bankruptcy filing on the client’s financial condition and operations. We also assist our clients in planning for a smooth transition into and out of bankruptcy, facilitating the sale of assets and arranging debtor-in-possession financing. Through FTI Palladium Partners, we help financially distressed companies implement their plans by providing interim management teams. As of December 31, 2006, we had 322 revenue-generating professionals in our corporate finance/restructuring consulting practice. Economic Consulting We deliver sophisticated economic analysis and modeling of issues arising in mergers and acquisitions and other complex antitrust and anticompetition, commercial and securities litigation. Our economic consulting practice segment includes the Lexecon and Compass businesses, both highly respected brands in the economic consulting industry. Within our economic consulting practice, we provide our clients with analyses of complex economic issues for use in legal and regulatory proceedings, strategic decision-making and public policy debates. We are also in the business of advising on developing and implementing concrete strategies for driving revenue growth and profitability. Our statistical and economic experts help companies evaluate issues such as the economic impact of deregulation on a particular industry or the amount of commercial damages suffered by a business. We have deep industry experience in such areas as commercial and investment banking, telecommunications, energy, transportation, healthcare and pharmaceuticals. Our professionals regularly provide expert testimony on damages, rates and prices, valuations, merger effects, intellectual property disputes in antitrust and anticompetition cases, regulatory proceedings and business valuations. As of December 31, 2006, we had 206 revenue-generating professionals in our economic consulting practice. Technology Consulting Our technology practice provides products, services and consulting to law firms, corporations and government agencies worldwide. Our principal business focuses on the collection, preservation, review and production of electronically stored information, or ESI. ESI can include e-mail, computer files, voicemail, instant messaging or transactional data stored on a computer. Our technology professionals combine industry leading software tools and domain experience to help our clients manage this information in a variety of litigation, investigation and arbitration related activities. Our repository services team provides a highly scalable, online litigation review environment using our Ringtail product suite. Our Ringtail products are also directly licensed to clients. Prior to 2006, we operated our technology practice as part of our forensic/litigation consulting segment. As of December 31, 2006, we had 256 revenue-generating professionals in our technology practice. Strategic and Financial Communications Consulting We manage FD, which we acquired as of October 4, 2006, as our strategic and financial communications consulting practice. Through this practice we provide advice and consulting services related to financial communications, brand communications, public affairs and issues management, and business consulting. FD has a leading position in its core service offerings and a successful track record. Distinct from other strategic and financial communications consultancies, FD has developed a unique, integrated offering that incorporates a broad scope of services, diverse sector coverage and global reach. This allows FD to advise clients from almost every major business center in the world on strategic and financial communications issues. The financial 4 Table of Contents communications service offerings are involved with the event-driven capital markets and include strategic boardroom advice, financial calendar support, mergers and acquisitions transactions, investor relations, financial and business media relations, capital market intelligence, initial public offerings, debt markets, corporate restructuring, proxy solicitation, corporate governance, corporate social responsibility advice and regulatory communications. The brand communications offerings provide creative services to build consumer and business-to-business brands. These communication service offerings include strategic marketing advice, business-to-business marketing consultancy, media relations, brand consultancy and repositioning, qualitative and quantitative research, sponsorship consultancy, thought leadership consultancy, launch and event management, strategy and event management and consumer communications. The public affairs and issues management service offerings help to shape messages to policymakers and respond to crisis situations. The services of public affairs include political intelligence, policy formation, political and media campaigns, third party and coalition mobilization, state aid, monopoly and anti-trust regulatory affairs. The services of issues management include business continuity planning, crisis communications planning, crisis handling, media relations, reputation rehabilitation and simulation exercises. Business consulting provides services through dedicated teams providing strategic advice and solving business problems by utilizing world-class research and methodologies. The consulting services offered include corporate strategy, growth strategy, cost management, mergers and acquisitions, organization, performance improvement, private equity and revenue enhancement. As of December 31, 2006, we had 424 revenue-generating professionals in our strategic and financial communications consulting practice. Industry Overview We compete in the global consulting services industry, focusing on providing forensic/litigation, corporate finance/restructuring, economic, technology and strategic and financial communications consulting services. There are a number of factors that drive demand for our services: • Increasing Need for Independent Expertise. We believe that as a result of increased public scrutiny, regulatory complexity and litigation, businesses and their creditors will increasingly engage consulting firms to provide objective and independent expertise. This is particularly true in highly complex and sophisticated areas such as restructurings, bankruptcies, economic consulting, forensic accounting and high-stakes regulatory and legal proceedings. The emerging trend toward hiring consulting firms unaffiliated with company auditors represents a fundamental shift in the demand for our services and has increased the size of our overall practices. • Regulatory Complexity, Public Scrutiny and Increased Litigation. We believe that heightened focus on corporate mismanagement, fraud-related investigations, ongoing regulatory activity such as SEC rulemaking, corporate governance scrutiny and increasing complexity in financial reporting requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, drive demand for our services. In addition, we believe that increasing litigation costs require businesses to focus on better managing risks and the litigation process, particularly in large, complex, multi-jurisdiction cases and mass tort claims, which increases the demand for our technology practice services. • Strong Economy and Growing Merger and Acquisition Activity. We believe that the overall strength of the economy and the growth in merger and acquisition activity are important drivers for our economic consulting practice and strategic and financial communications consulting practice. We also believe there is more complex litigation and regulatory activity during strong economic conditions. During periods of increased merger and acquisition activity, we have experienced increased use of our economic consulting services driven by growing areas such as antitrust regulation, intellectual property disputes and breaches of contract. • Trends in Corporate Debt and Debt Default Rates. We believe that corporate debt levels and related default rates are important indicators of the potential need for restructuring, turnaround, bankruptcy and related consulting services. According to Thomson Financial, both U.S. and international companies 5 Table of Contents have continued to rely on debt to finance acquisitions, growth initiatives and working capital requirements, as evidenced by the fact that there were more issuances of U.S. and global long-term debt in 2006 than 2005. Demand for our services has been strong in sectors such as automotive, airline, telecommunications, media, entertainment and technology, all of which rely on corporate debt. • Importance of Corporate Communications and Increasingly Complicated Market Environment. Corporate communications has become a key strategic issue demanding the attention of C-suite and boards of directors, as reputational risk becomes a rising concern on the corporate boardroom’s risk management agenda. There is an increasingly complicated market environment for large corporations, which requires an integrated and consultative approach covering several different aspects of business communications. • Growth of Multinational Firms and Increase in Growth Companies from Developing World. Multinational firms are seeking to establish global branding, investor relations and communications strategies. Furthermore, increasing numbers of growth companies from the developing world are requiring access to developed markets’ capital base, with best practice communications advice being a key component in achieving this objective. Our Competitive Strengths We compete primarily on the basis of institutional and individual reputations, ability to immediately staff a significant engagement, performance record, quality of work, range of services provided and existing client relationships. We attribute our success and distinction to a combination of long-standing advantages, including: • Premium Brand Names with Leading Market Positions. We believe that we are one of the most recognized brand names in the corporate finance/restructuring, economic and strategic and financial communications consulting industries. In addition, we believe we have leading market positions in our forensic/litigation consulting practice and technology practice based on revenues. The strength of our brand names and market positions are enhanced by the reputation of our well-recognized consultants, many of whom are leading members of their respective fields. We have benefited from our strategy of acquiring the leading practitioners in each practice, as well as including, in select cases, the continued use of their brand names, either independently or coupled with the FTI brand, such as Lexecon, Ringtail, Cambio, Compass and FD. • Diversified Revenue Sources. We have created a balanced portfolio of services organized into five consulting practices: forensic/litigation, corporate finance/restructuring, economic, technology and strategic and financial communications. We began to separately manage our technology practice in 2006 and our strategic and financial communications consulting practice was created with the acquisition of FD in October 2006. Our strategy is to continue to maintain such diversification. We believe that our broad service offerings and diversity of our revenues insulate us from fluctuations in market conditions in any one of our practices. With the acquisition of FD in October 2006, we’ve expanded our global reach to include offices in Ireland, France, Russia, China, United Arab Emirates and South Africa, and expanded our presence in the U.K, Australia, Hong Kong, Japan and Singapore. • Diversified Portfolio of Elite Clients. We provide services for a diverse group of clients, including global Fortune 500 companies, global law firms, global banks, local, state and federal governments and agencies in the United States and other countries throughout the world. In 2006, our top ten clients accounted for 21% of our total revenues, with no single client accounting for more than 5% of our total revenues. Among these top 10 clients were eight nationally recognized law firms, each of whom represented multiple clients and matters. • High Level of Repeat and Referral Business and Attractive, Highly Recurring Financial Model. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from repeat clients or referrals. Many of our client relationships are long-standing and include multiple contact points within each organization, increasing 6 Table of Contents the depth and continuity of these relationships. We cultivate our critical relationships with financial institutions and law firms, which have served as entry points into significant, high-profile and reputation enhancing engagements. In addition, our strategic and financial communications consulting practice has a financial model which is primarily built on recurring retainer based engagements. Clients of this practice are typically billed on a project-based billing system that reflects the value added by the business rather than the industry standard of lower value time and materials billing basis. • Strong Cash Flow. Our business model has several characteristics that produce strong cash flows including high margins, low capital expenditures and low working capital requirements. Our consistently strong cash flow supports our acquisition and growth strategies and our ability to service our indebtedness. Our Business Strategy The following are key elements of our business strategy: • Attract and Retain Highly Qualified Professionals. Our professionals are crucial to delivering our services to clients and generating new business. As of December 31, 2006, we assembled a staff of 1,596 revenue-generating professionals, many of whom have established and widely recognized names in their respective practice areas. Through our substantial staff of highly qualified professionals, we can handle a number of large, complex assignments simultaneously. To attract and retain highly qualified senior managing directors and managing directors, we offer significant compensation opportunities, including sign-on bonuses, primarily in the form of forgivable loans, incentive bonuses and equity compensation, along with a competitive benefits package and the chance to work on challenging engagements. We have employment arrangements with substantially all of our senior managing directors that include non-competition and non-solicitation clauses. • Optimize Utilization and Billing Rates of FTI Professionals who Bill on an Hourly Basis. We carefully monitor our utilization rates of our professionals who bill on an hourly basis. Our goal is to manage growth to maintain utilization rates rather than intermittently expanding our staff in anticipation of short-term demand. We strive to attain utilization rates that allow us to maintain our profitability, make us less vulnerable to fluctuations in our workload and minimize seasonal factors affecting utilization. In addition, the nature of our services allows us to bill premium rates for the services of our revenue-generating professionals, which enhances our profitability. As we have expanded our business offerings and the mix of business has changed, utilization was a less meaningful measure of productivity and profitability for 2006, particularly with respect to our technology practice and strategic and financial communications consulting practice, which do not bill a substantial amount of their business on an hourly basis. • Leverage Our Relationships and Expertise. We work hard to maintain our existing client relationships and develop new ones. We believe that the strength of our existing client relationships and the quality of our reputation across our industry, coupled with our recognized industry expertise, successful track record and size, are the most critical elements in a decision to retain us. We receive a significant amount of repeat business and referrals from our clients. We strive to build client relationships on a company-wide basis and encourage cross-selling among our practices. By successfully leveraging our reputation, experience and broad client base, we expect to continue to obtain engagements from both existing and new clients. • Expand the Breadth of Our Services and Geographic Presence. We strive to offer our clients comprehensive solutions to their most complex problems, wherever they are in the world. Increasingly, our clients demand expertise across multiple markets and continents. To meet this demand, we provide our clients with a complete suite of services across all five practices. As we continue to grow, we plan to broaden our industry expertise and expand our electronic evidence and electronic repository services. 7 Table of Contents With the addition of FD in October 2006, we are positioned to further explore opportunities to increase our presence in Europe, Asia, and other international locations to better serve our clients and to capitalize on what we believe are favorable market conditions. • Selectively Acquire Companies and Integrate Our New Professionals and Capabilities. We follow a disciplined approach to executing and integrating acquisitions, targeting those that complement our business strategy or operate in an attractive specialized niche. Since June of 1998, we have completed more than a dozen significant acquisitions that have enhanced our practices. We intend to continue to selectively pursue strategic acquisitions. We seek to integrate acquisitions in a way that fosters organic growth and provides synergies or cross-practice growth opportunities. We also structure our acquisitions to ensure that key individuals from the acquired company are retained and integrated after the transaction is executed. Our Services Forensic/Litigation Consulting Practice. Our forensic accounting specialists work with companies faced with fraud, financial disclosure and accounting investigations, misstatements and malpractice issues. As perpetrators of fraud become more ingenious, the expertise required to unravel their schemes increases. We have a team of forensic accountants, certified fraud examiners and computer technicians who are experts in discovering and analyzing the most sophisticated ways to circumvent internal financial controls. We routinely assess complex financial transactions and reconstruct events from incomplete and/or corrupt data, uncover vital evidence, identify potential claims and assist in the pursuit of financial recoveries and settlements. We utilize sophisticated software tools to analyze and uncover important information from the computer systems used in the frauds. With our advanced search techniques and innovative methods, we are able to uncover valuable information that was considered lost, deleted or hidden. We also provide services relating to securities, regulatory and Sarbanes-Oxley investigations, and dispute advisory services. Our international risk and investigations group provides business intelligence and investigations, corporate investigations, litigation and dispute investigations and integrity advisory services by our team of former prosecutors, law enforcement and intelligence officials and forensic accountants and computer forensic specialists. We develop and deliver creative solutions to litigation problems. As an innovator in digital graphic presentations, we have been one of the leaders in providing high-quality, cost-effective methods to prepare for and try cases. Our trial technology professionals have supported clients in the courtroom in some of the largest and most complex civil trials. Through the use of proprietary information technology, we have demonstrated our ability to help control litigation costs, expedite the trial process and provide our clients with the ability to readily organize and access case-related data. We prepare and enhance presentations and expert testimony on complex subjects, such as toxic torts, financial disputes and intellectual property resolutions. We have responded to the increasing demand for document management in cases involving thousands or even millions of pages of depositions, testimony and exhibits by developing document management and exhibit and trial preparation solutions that enable our clients to better focus on preparing for and trying cases. Our range of services for complex litigation matters includes visual communication consulting services; graphic exhibit design and production; customized database development and distribution; video deposition capture and transcript linking; management of designated trial exhibits; courtroom survey, design and configuration; on-site technical trial support; trial-specific hardware procurement and tracking; and secure extranet storage and distribution of data, documents, transcripts, videos and exhibits. We have developed a number of technology-based tools to assist our clients in managing complex litigation. TrialMax®, our comprehensive trial preparation software, enables a litigation team to easily store, annotate and display documents, computer graphics, video clips and digitized depositions in the courtroom. We employ an automated tool for handling trial data regardless of information source or data type. Our experienced intellectual property professionals provide valuation, damage analyses and expert testimony services. They provide those services to a range of industries, including oil and gas, technology and consumer products. They perform financial analyses of intellectual property in licensing and royalty disputes, antitrust claims and other types of disputes. Our professionals employ industry research, statistical analysis, regression techniques, portfolio analysis and sophisticated financial modeling to support defensible, credible valuation and damage conclusions. 8 Table of Contents Our dispute settlement services help our clients mitigate the cost of, or avoid, litigation by evaluating claims and risks. These professionals coordinate business expertise with legal and technical analysis to develop cost-effective settlement strategies and implement mutually beneficial business resolutions. We also provide asset tracing and other investigative services. We analyze corporate and personal records and electronic information, conduct interviews and evaluate related financial information to trace the flow of funds and locate assets that may have been misappropriated due to illegal or fraudulent activity. We use sophisticated software tools, advanced data mining and search techniques as well as databases to conduct asset searches for companies, government agencies and individuals. Our other investigatory capabilities and services include white collar defense investigations, complex commercial and financial investigations, asset searching and analysis, internal investigations, fraud investigations, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act investigations, image and reputation assessments, audit committee and special committee investigations and anti-money laundering investigations. We have provided investigative services in diverse cases involving misdirected or stolen assets, embezzlements and bank, healthcare, insurance, energy, telecommunications and bankruptcy frauds. Corporate Finance/Restructuring Consulting Practice. Our corporate finance/restructuring consulting practice has regularly advised companies and creditors in some of the largest, most complex bankruptcy proceedings and out-of-court restructurings in the U.S. A number of factors affect demand for this practice’s services. These include: • the level of lending activity and over-leveraging of companies; • over-expansion by various businesses; • increases in merger and acquisition activity; • management problems; and • the general economy in the U.S. and abroad. When we represent companies, we work with our client’s management. We assess the client’s financial condition and viability to structure and implement a business rehabilitation plan to manage the client’s cash flow to at least a break-even point. We help clients to identify any non-essential assets or business units that could be sold to generate cash for the client. We assist clients as they negotiate with their lenders to restructure their debt. If the client voluntarily files for bankruptcy or is involuntarily forced into bankruptcy, we have the expertise to manage the entire bankruptcy process, including structuring, negotiating with creditors and implementing the plan of reorganization. We also provide expert testimony in bankruptcy and restructuring proceedings on such issues as business unit valuation and economic loss. When we represent creditors, we seek to maximize amounts owed to them by the debtor, whether in an out-of-court workout or bankruptcy. In a workout engagement, we evaluate and monitor the quality and value of the collateral and any other assets available to the creditor, analyze the debtor’s business plan and underlying cash flow projections and assess the adequacy of the debtor’s financial reporting systems. Based on our analysis, we assess the debtor’s viability and develop and evaluate restructuring plans. If we conclude that an out-of-court workout is not feasible, we assist the creditors in deciding whether to provide debtor-in-possession financing, in working through the bankruptcy process, and in structuring and evaluating various reorganization plan alternatives. Demand for some of our corporate finance/restructuring services declined in 2006 primarily as a result of general economic conditions, including the strengthening of the economy, the availability of credit, low interest rates, fewer mergers and acquisitions and fewer large bankruptcy proceedings. We have been able to offset a portion of the effects of that decline by increasing our middle market bankruptcy, restructuring, workout and transaction advisory engagements, diversifying our engagements and utilizing our professionals across practices. To better meet the needs of companies suffering a financial or operating crisis, we also offer interim management services. Interim management professionals are able to assume interim senior management roles at companies in crisis. We can deploy our professionals to function as a chief executive officer, chief operating officer, chief financial officer or chief restructuring officer. We reevaluate business strategy and financial forecasts and implement plans to meet financial and operating challenges for our clients. Our creative approaches and innovative solutions can create short-term liquidity to stabilize the business and afford the distressed company time to explore its options. We are keenly aware of the sensitive nature of these arrangements and the need to build consensus around a realistic restructuring plan. 9 Table of Contents We have extensive experience in crisis management, negotiations of complex mergers, acquisitions and capital restructurings, as well as the liquidation of surplus assets. We have regularly provided our corporate financing, turnaround, restructuring, bankruptcy and related consulting services to the largest banks in the United States, including Citigroup, Inc., Bank of America, N.A. and JP Morgan Chase Bank. We have been involved in many of the largest bankruptcy proceedings and out-of-court restructurings in the United States. Our lender and transactional support services assist lenders and other institutional clients in performing financial due diligence for loans, acquisitions and other transactions. Economic Consulting Practice. Our economic consulting practice provides sophisticated economic analyses of issues arising in mergers and acquisitions, intellectual property, collusion and price fixing, antitrust and anticompetition and complex commercial and securities litigation. Our statistical and economic experts use complex quantitative techniques and modeling to help companies evaluate issues such as the economic impact of deregulation on a particular industry, the amount of commercial damages suffered by a business as a result of a tort or a breach of contract, the value of a business, the competitive effects of a proposed transaction or regulation, class certification and claims made in complex commercial and securities litigation. We also work with clients to develop business strategy and tactics on an ongoing basis to address these, as well as, other economic issues. We have deep industry experience in areas such as telecommunications, media and entertainment, intellectual property valuation, energy, transportation, healthcare and pharmaceuticals. Our professionals regularly provide expert testimony on damages, rates and prices, merger and acquisition effects, intellectual property disputes, antitrust and anticompetition cases, regulatory proceedings and business valuations. Technology Practice. Our technology practice provides products, services and consulting to law firms, corporations and government agencies worldwide. Our principal business focuses on the collection, preservation, review and production of electronically stored information, or ESI. ESI can include e-mail, computer files, voicemail, instant messaging or transactional data stored on a computer. Our technology professionals combine industry leading software tools and domain experience to help our clients manage this information in a variety of litigation, investigation and arbitration related activities. Prior to 2006, we operated our technology practice as part of our forensic/litigation consulting practice. Our technology practice is one of the few organizations capable of assisting the largest corporations, law firms and government agencies with end-to-end ESI related services. Before a litigation or investigation matter is initiated, our electronic evidence consultants advise clients in all aspects of data preservation, information security and litigation readiness. Our financial systems and complex data teams provide expertise to clients regarding transactional data systems including online analytical processing and financial systems analysis. Once a legal or investigative matter is underway we provide clients a single source for data collection, processing, review and production of ESI data. Our collection experts regularly travel to locations around the world to collect ESI data from client systems in a forensically sound and secure manner. Our processing team performs a variety of extraction, culling and search related operations to remove erroneous or duplicative data and prepare it for further review. Our analytics team provides clients with tools and services to help them sift rapidly through data and locate critical e-mails and files, frequently in response to government investigations and requests. Our repository services team provides a highly scalable, online litigation review environment using our Ringtail product suite for clients to review, code and produce ESI information from anywhere with an Internet connection. We deliver our Ringtail product suite by way of a monthly “software-as-a-service” model, as well as licensing our Ringtail product suite directly to clients for installation within their own environments. The Ringtail product suite is one of the few products on the market that allows clients this flexibility. Strategic and Financial Communications Consulting Practice. Our strategic and financial communications consulting practice, formed by our acquisition of FD, provides the following four service offerings: financial communications, brand communications, public affairs and issues management, and business consulting. 10 Table of Contents Our financial communications services are involved with the event-driven capital markets. These communications service offerings include strategic boardroom advice, financial calendar support, mergers and acquisitions transactions, investor relations, financial and business media relations, capital market intelligence, initial public offerings, debt markets, corporate restructuring, proxy solicitation, corporate governance, corporate social responsibility advice and regulatory communications. We provide creative brand communications services to build consumer and business-to-business brands. Our communication service offerings include strategic marketing advice, business-to-business marketing consultancy, media relations, brand consultancy and repositioning, qualitative and quantitative research, sponsorship consultancy, thought leadership consultancy, launch and event management, strategy and event management and consumer communications. We provide public affairs and issues management services to help shape messages to policymakers and respond to crisis situations. Our public affairs services include political intelligence, policy formation, political and media campaigns, third party and coalition mobilization, state aid, monopoly and anti-trust regulatory affairs. Our issues management services include business continuity planning, crisis communications planning, crisis handling, media relations, reputation rehabilitation and simulation exercises. Our dedicated business consulting services teams provide strategic advice and solve business problems by utilizing world-class research and methodologies. The consulting services offered include corporate strategy, growth strategy, cost management, mergers and acquisitions, organization, performance improvement, private equity and revenue enhancement. Significant Acquisitions Completed in 2006 FD International (Holdings) Limited. As of October 4, 2006, we completed our acquisition of approximately 97% of the share capital of FD, a global strategic business and financial communications consulting firm headquartered in London. In February 2007, we acquired the remaining 3% of FD’s share capital that was outstanding. We believe FD is a world leading provider of strategic business and financial communications consulting services for major international corporations. FD has a leading position in its core service offerings and a successful track record. Distinct from other strategic and financial communications consultancies, FD has developed a unique, integrated offering that incorporates a broad scope of services, diverse sector coverage and global reach. This allows FD to advise clients from almost every major business center in the world on strategic and financial communications issues. In addition, FD has won numerous accolades in recent years, including the 2006 International Consultancy of the Year award from PRWeek, a leading trade publication for the public relations and communications industry. The acquisition of FD is consistent with our strategy as it drives growth for our business and provides substantial cross-selling opportunities. FD diversifies our business into a new consulting area. We believe we already have the largest restructuring practice and one of the largest economic consulting and forensic/litigation practices in the U.S. and now also believe we have one of the largest strategic and financial communication consulting practices in the world. As we continue to expand globally, FD’s relationships will be very significant for our other consulting practice areas. Similarly, while successful, FD currently has a relatively narrow penetration into the U.S. corporate market which we believe will be a key area for future growth as we leverage our existing U.S. client relationships. With the acquisition of FD, we achieve an important strategic objective of further expanding internationally. The acquisition also contributes to our cross-border execution capabilities and establishes a stronger U.K. presence in a region where, historically, our start-up expenses have been a burden to financial performance. Competition Policy Associates, Inc. As of January 6, 2006, we completed our acquisition of all the outstanding common stock of Competition Policy Associates, Inc., or Compass, and the related assets from the stockholders of Compass. Compass is a top competition economics consulting firm, with offices in Washington, D.C. and San Francisco. Compass provides services that involve sophisticated economic analysis in the context 11 Table of Contents of antitrust disputes, mergers and acquisitions, regulatory and policy debates, and general commercial litigation across a broad range of industries in the United States, Europe and the Pacific Rim. Senior Managing Director Incentive Compensation Program and Employment Terms Our employment arrangements with our senior managing directors range from at will employment arrangements that include restrictions on post-employment competition and solicitation of our clients and employees to long-term written employment agreements. Currently, expirations of employment agreements are concentrated in years 2008 and 2009 because of the timing of our acquisitions and our 2004 initiative to enter into written agreements with our senior professionals. In addition, there is a concentration of expirations in years 2011 and 2012 because of our current initiative to renegotiate long-term employment arrangements with certain senior managing directors who have been designated as participants in our senior managing director incentive compensation program, or IC Program, which is discussed below. The employment arrangements extended to new employees in connection with acquisitions and new hires of senior professionals at the senior managing director level or higher generally provide for fixed salary, participation in incentive payment programs (which in some cases may be based on financial measures such as earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation of property and equipment and amortization of other intangible assets, or EBITDA) and a long term equity incentive in the form of stock options or restricted stock. They also entitle the professional to participate in our benefit plans. In many cases, we extend forgivable unsecured loans to professionals, provided they are not executive officers, in lieu of paying cash signing bonuses. We believe that the loan arrangements (which require repayment in full if the employee’s employment terminates on certain events prior to his contract’s expiration date) enhance our ability to attract and retain senior professionals. Our employment arrangements with professionals at the senior managing director level or higher generally provide for salary continuation benefits, accrued bonuses and other benefits beyond the termination date if the professional leaves our employ for certain reasons prior to the agreement’s expiration date. The length and amount of payments to be paid by us, following the termination or resignation of a professional who is a party to a long-term employment agreement, varies depending on whether such person resigned or was terminated with cause or good reason, resigned or was terminated without cause or good reason, died or became disabled, or was terminated as a result of a change of control. Such employment agreements contain non-competition and non-solicitation covenants, which under various circumstances, may extend beyond the expiration or termination date depending upon the reason for such termination. Under such non-competition covenants, the professional generally agrees not to offer or perform consulting services of the type performed during his employment, directly, or indirectly through another person or entity, in competition with us, within specified geographic areas, subject, in some cases, to certain exceptions. Generally, such professionals also agree not to solicit business regarding any case, matter or client upon which such professional worked on our behalf, or to solicit, hire, or influence the departure of, any of our employees, consultants or independent contractors. Under the general terms of his or her long-term employment agreement, the professionals also agree to maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary information and affirm that we are the owners of copyrights, trade marks, patents and inventions developed during the course of employment. In 2006, we began to renegotiate new long-term employment agreements with certain key senior managing directors. In connection with those discussions, we offer certain designated senior managing directors the opportunity to participate in all or a portion of the benefits under our IC Program that includes cash, in the form of an unsecured general recourse forgivable loan, and significant additional payments upon the execution and during the term of such employment agreement in the form of stock options and restricted stock awards or, alternatively, cash equivalents if we do not have adequate equity securities available under stockholder approved equity plans. The new employment agreements entered into in 2006 with senior managing directors in our corporate finance/restructuring consulting practice who are participating in this program will expire in 2011, which means that we could face similar retention issues at the end of the terms of those agreements. The new employment agreements entered into in January 2007 with senior managing directors in our forensic/litigation 12 Table of Contents consulting and technology practices who are participating in this program will expire in 2012. In an effort to reduce this risk, we have included a renewal provision in most of the new employment agreements; providing that, the agreement will renew for one year, from year to year, beginning at the end of their initial terms unless either party provides written notice of non-renewal to the other party at least ninety (90) days prior to the date of the expiration of the initial term or any extended term. We may designate additional participants in the IC Program in 2007 and later years that could add to the concentration of expirations in 2012 or result in concentrations of expiration dates in other years. There is no assurance we will enter into new long-term employment agreements with other senior managing directors, although that is our intention. In 2006, we issued significant amounts of unsecured forgivable loans to senior managing directors (including senior managing directors and consulting practice leaders who were admitted into our IC Program in 2006) and other key professionals. We expect to continue issuing significant amounts of unsecured forgivable loans as part of our compensation package to attract and retain our professionals. Some or all of the principal amount and accrued interest of the loans we make to employees could be forgivable by us upon the passage of time, while complying with contractual requirements, or certain other events, such as death or disability or termination by us without cause or by the employee with good reason. During 2006, we granted stock options to purchase an aggregate of 685,000 shares of our common stock and awarded 99,500 shares of restricted stock to the senior managing directors in our corporate finance/restructuring consulting practice participating in the IC Program. In January 2007, we granted stock options to purchase an aggregate of 695,000 shares of our common stock and 133,000 shares of restricted stock to the senior managing directors in our forensic/litigation consulting and technology practices participating in the IC Program. Additional stock option and restricted stock awards will be granted to senior managing directors in our corporate finance/restructuring consulting practice participating in the IC Program in 2007, which awards, while not yet final, will be significant. Marketing and Sales We rely primarily on our senior professionals to identify and pursue business opportunities. Referrals from clients, law firms and other intermediaries and our reputation from prior engagements are also key factors in securing new business. Our professionals develop close working relationships with clients and often learn about new business opportunities from their frequent contacts with clients. In marketing our services, we emphasize our experience, the quality of our services and our professionals’ particular areas of expertise, as well as our ability to quickly staff new engagements. While we aggressively seek new business opportunities, we maintain high professional standards and carefully evaluate potential new client relationships and engagements before accepting them. Clients We provide services for a diverse group of clients, including global Fortune 500 companies, global law firms, global banks, local, state and federal governments and agencies in the United States and other countries throughout the world. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from repeat or referral business. No single client accounted for more than 5% of our 2006 revenues. Competition Our business is highly competitive. Our competitors range from large organizations, such as the national accounting firms and the large management consulting companies that offer a broad range of consulting services, to small firms and independent contractors that provide one specialized service. We compete primarily on the basis of institutional and individual reputations, ability to immediately staff a significant engagement, performance record, quality of work, range of services provided and existing client relationships. To a lesser extent, we also compete on price, but the critical nature of our services typically reduces price to a secondary 13 Table of Contents consideration. Since our business depends in a large part on professional relationships, our business has low barriers of entry for professionals, including our professionals, wanting to start their own firms or to change employers. Some service providers are larger than we are and, on any given engagement, may have a competitive advantage over us with respect to one or more competitive factors. The smaller local or regional firms, while not offering the range of services we provide, often are able to provide the lowest price on a specific engagement because of their lower overhead costs and proximity to the engagement. Patents, Licenses and Proprietary Information We consider certain of our products and processes, including our TrialMax® comprehensive trial preparation software, proprietary and confidential. We consider the Ringtail™ Casebook and Ringtail Legal™ software and the other technologies and software that we acquired in connection with the Ringtail transaction to be proprietary and confidential. We believe that our non-patented software and intellectual property, particularly some of our process software and intellectual property, is important to our forensic/litigation and technology practices. We rely upon non-disclosure agreements and contractual agreements and a system of internal controls, including, confidentiality and invention disclosure agreements with our employees and independent contractors, and license agreements with third parties, to protect our proprietary information. Despite these safeguards, there is a risk that competitors may obtain and use such information. Employees As of December 31, 2006, we had 2,079 total employees, including 1,596 revenue-generating professionals. As of December 31, 2006, we had operations across 29 U.S. cities as well as the U.K., Ireland, France, Russia, Australia, Hong Kong, China, Singapore, Japan, United Arab Emirates and South Africa. We also engage independent contractors to supplement our professionals on client engagements as needed. Most of our professionals have many years of experience in their field of practice, and many are well recognized for their expertise and experience. None of our employees are subject to collective bargaining contracts or represented by a union. We believe our relationship with our employees is good. Corporate Information FTI Consulting, Inc. is a Maryland corporation. We are a publicly traded company with common stock listed on the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, under the symbol “FCN.” Our executive offices are located at 500 East Pratt Street, Suite 1400, Baltimore, Maryland 21202. Our telephone number is (410) 951-4800. Our website is www.fticonsulting.com. Available Information We are subject to the information requirements of the Exchange Act. Therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 E Street, NE Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. We make available, free of charge, on or through our website, our annual, quarterly and current reports and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such reports with the SEC. Information posted on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other report filed with the SEC in satisfaction of the requirements of the Exchange Act. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS All of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations In addition to the risks below, other risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business operations. Our failure to retain qualified professionals or hire additional qualified professionals would have a negative effect on our future growth and financial performance as well as on client engagements, services and relationships. 14 Table of Contents Our business involves the delivery of professional forensic/litigation, corporate finance/restructuring, economic consulting, technology services and strategic and financial communications consulting services. In the consulting business, professional acumen, trust and relationships are critical elements of a company’s ability to deliver high quality professional services. Our professionals have highly specialized skills. They also develop strong bonds with the clients they service. Our continued success depends upon our ability to attract and retain our staff of professionals who have expertise, reputations and client relationships critical to maintaining and developing our business. We face intense competition in recruiting and retaining highly qualified professionals that we must employ to continue our service offerings. Our employment arrangements with our senior managing directors range from at will employment arrangements that include restrictions on post-employment competition and solicitation of our clients and employees to long-term written employment agreements. Currently, expirations of employment agreements are concentrated in years 2008 and 2009 because of the timing of our acquisitions and our 2004 initiative to enter into written agreements with our senior professionals. In addition, there are concentrations of expirations in years 2011 and 2012 because of our current initiative to renegotiate long term employment arrangements with certain senior managing directors who have been designated as participants in our senior managing director incentive compensation program, IC Program, which is discussed below. We monitor these contract expirations carefully to commence dialogues with professionals regarding their employment well in advance of the actual contract expiration dates. Our goal is to renew employment agreements when advisable and to stagger the expirations of the agreements if possible. Because of the high concentration of contract expirations in certain years, we may experience high turnover or other adverse consequences, such as higher costs, loss of clients and engagements, or difficulty staffing engagements, if we are unable to renegotiate employment arrangements or the costs of retaining qualified professionals become higher. We cannot assure that we will be able to attract and retain enough qualified professionals to maintain or expand our business. Moreover, competition has been increasing our costs of retaining or hiring qualified professionals, a trend which could harm our operating margins and results of operations. In 2006, we renegotiated new long-term employment agreements with certain key senior managing directors in our corporate finance/restructuring consulting practice. In January 2007, we renegotiated new long-term employment agreements with certain key senior managing directors in our forensic/litigation consulting and technology practices. Certain designated senior managing directors have been given all or a portion of the benefits under our IC Program that includes cash, in the form of an unsecured general recourse forgivable loan, and significant additional payments upon the execution and during the term of such employment agreement in the form of stock options and restricted stock awards or, alternatively, cash equivalents if we do not have adequate equity securities available under stockholder approved equity plans. Most of the new employment agreements entered into in 2006 will expire in 2011 and most of the new employment agreements entered into in January 2007 will expire in 2012. This means that we could face similar retention issues at the end of the terms of those agreements. In an effort to reduce this risk, we have included a renewal provision in most of the new employment agreements providing that the agreements will renew for one year from year-to-year beginning at the end of their initial terms unless either party provides written notice of non-renewal to the other party at least ninety (90) days prior to the date of the expiration of the initial term or any extended term. We may extend the SMD compensation program to other participants in certain of our other consulting practices in 2007 or beyond, which could result in a concentration of employment agreements other years. While we hope that we enter into new long-term employment agreements with a significant number of senior managing directors, there is no assurance we will be able to do so. In 2006, we issued unsecured forgivable loans and refundable signing bonuses to senior managing directors (including senior managing directors and practice leaders who were admitted into our IC Program in 2006) and other key professionals in the aggregate principal amount of about $42 million. In January and February 2007, we made additional unsecured forgivable loans to senior managing directors (including participants in the IC Program) and other senior managing directors and key professionals in the aggregate principal amount of $26.6 million. We expect to continue to include unsecured forgivable loans in compensation packages to recruit and retain our professionals. Some or all of the principal amount and accrued interest of the loans we make to employees could be forgivable by us upon the passage of time, while complying with contractual requirements, or certain other events, such as death or disability or termination by us without cause or by the employee with good reason. As of December 31, 2006, substantial stock option and restricted stock awards have been granted to participants pursuant to the IC Program, and in 2007, additional equity awards will be significant. 15 Table of Contents Our clients may preclude us from representing multiple clients in connection with the same engagement or competitive matter; our other practices may be precluded from accepting engagements from clients with respect to the same or competitive matter for which another practice has been engaged to provide services and required to forego potential business prospects in order to win engagements, which could harm our revenues, results of operations and client relationships and engagements. We follow internal practices to assess real and potential issues in the relationships between and among our clients, engagements, practices and professionals. For example, we generally will not represent parties adverse to each other in the same matter. Under bankruptcy rules, we generally may not represent both a debtor and its creditors in the same proceeding. Under federal bankruptcy laws, we are required to notify the U.S. Trustee of real or potential conflicts. The U.S. Trustee could find that we no longer meet the disinterestedness standard because of real or potential changes in our status as a disinterested party, and order us to resign, which could result in disgorgement of fees. Acquisitions may result in us resigning from a current client engagement because of relationship issues that are not currently identifiable. In addition, businesses that we acquire may not be free to accept engagements they could have accepted prior to our acquiring them because of relationship issues. Our inability to accept engagements from clients or prospective clients, represent multiple clients in connection with the same or competitive engagements, and any requirement that we resign from client engagements may negatively impact our revenues, revenue growth and results of operations. If our former professionals go into business in competition with us or join our competitors, our client engagements and relationships could decline, financial performance and growth could slow or decline, and employee morale could suffer, and we may not have legal recourse. Typically, our professionals have a close relationship with the clients they serve, not only based on their expertise but also on bonds of personal trust and confidence. Although our clients generally contract for services with us as a company, and not with individual professionals, in the event that professionals leave, such clients would not be prohibited from hiring those professionals to perform future engagements. Clients could also decide to transfer active engagements to professionals who leave. The engagement letters that we typically enter into with clients do not obligate them to continue to use our services. Typically, our engagement letters permit clients to terminate our services at any time. Furthermore, while in some cases, the termination of an ongoing engagement by a client could constitute a breach of the client’s contract with us, we could decide that preserving the overall client relationship is more important than seeking damages for the breach, and for that or other reasons that are not currently identifiable, decide not to pursue any legal remedies that might be available to us. We would make the determination whether to pursue any legal actions against a client on a case-by-case basis. Substantially all of our written employment arrangements with our senior managing directors include non-competition and non-solicitation arrangements. These non-competition agreements have generally been drafted to comply with state “reasonableness” standards. However, states generally interpret non-competition clauses narrowly. Therefore, a state may hold certain restrictions on competition to be unenforceable. In the case of employees outside of the U.S., the non-competition provisions have been drafted to comply with applicable foreign law. In the event an employee departs, we will consider any legal remedies we may have against such professional on a case-by-case basis. However, we may decide that preserving cooperation and a professional relationship, or other concerns, outweigh the benefits of any possible legal recovery. Therefore, we may determine not to pursue legal action, even if available. Our profitability could suffer if we are not able to manage utilization and pricing rates of our professional staff. We calculate the utilization rate for our professional staff by dividing the number of hours that our professionals worked on client assignments during a period by the total available working hours for our professionals, assuming a 40-hour work week and a 52-week year. Available working hours include vacation and professional training days, but exclude holidays. The hourly rates we charge our clients for our services and the 16 Table of Contents number of hours our professionals are able to charge our clients for our services are affected by the level of expertise and experience of the professionals working on a particular engagement and, to a lesser extent, the pricing and staffing policies of our competitors. If we fail to manage our utilization rates for our professionals or maintain or increase the hourly rates we charge our clients for our services, we may experience adverse consequences, such as non-revenue-generating professionals, the loss of clients and engagements and the inability to appropriately staff engagements and our profitability will suffer. As we have expanded our business offerings and the mix of business has changed, utilization was a less meaningful measure of productivity and profitability for 2006, particularly with respect to our technology and strategic and financial communications consulting practices, which do not bill a substantial amount of their business on an hourly basis. Utilization of our professionals is affected by a number of factors, some of which are not within our control, including general economic conditions, the number, size and timing of client engagements, our ability to forecast demand for our services and maintain an appropriate level of professionals, ability to utilize professionals across practices, acquisitions and the hiring of new professionals and staff vacations. Utilization in our corporate finance/restructuring consulting practice has declined since 2005 due to a decrease in the number and size of its bankruptcy cases and decline in demand for certain of its services resulting from the strengthening of the economy, the availability of credit, low interest rates, fewer mergers and acquisitions and fewer large bankruptcy proceedings. Other factors contributing to the decline in utilization rates in that practice included upfront hiring for expansion into the U.K. without an associated book of business. We may have difficulty integrating the operations of FD. Should we fail to integrate FD’s operations, our results of operations and profitability could be negatively impacted. As of October 4, 2006, we acquired FD. FD is a corporation organized under the laws of England and Wales and it has subsidiaries organized under the laws of other non-U.S. jurisdictions as well as the U.S. We may not be successful in integrating the operations of FD and the combined company may not perform as we expect. Some of the integration challenges we face include differences in corporate culture and management styles, additional or conflicting governmental regulations, preparation of the FD operations for compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, financial reporting that is not in compliance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP, disparate company policies and practices, client relationship issues and retention of key FD officers and personnel. In addition, management may be required to devote a considerable amount of time to the integration process, which could decrease the amount of time they have to manage FTI. We cannot assure that we will successfully or cost-effectively integrate FD’s operations. The failure to do so could have a negative effect on results of operations or profitability. The process of integrating operations could cause some interruption of, or the loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our or FD’s businesses. FD represents a strategically aligned, but different line of business that we do not have experience in operating. While we believe that FD is strategically aligned with our current line of business, the success factors for effectively competing for and executing strategic and financial communications consulting engagements are different than those required for our other businesses. FD’s professionals have different backgrounds and skill sets. Strategic and financial communications solutions may be more creative than our other services, thereby making an objective assessment of quality of service challenging and different from most of our service offerings. We may have greater challenges in assisting or arbitrating in difficult client matters. We may not have existing relationships with many of FD’s clients, we may not have relationships with other international prospects for FD. In addition, FD, outside of the U.S., does not manage its business or bill its clients based on hours and rates like FTI, but rather runs on the basis of teams that have revenue and profitability objectives, and a substantial portion of FD’s revenues are generated through retainers. We may have difficulty identifying emerging problems or opportunities due to this different model, which could negatively impact our business prospects and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Our international operations create special risks. Particularly as a result of acquisitions in 2006, we operated in 11 countries besides the U.S. We expect to continue our international expansion, and our international revenues are expected to account for an increasing portion of our revenues in the future. Our international operations carry special financial and business risks, including: • cultural and language differences; • limited “brand” recognition for FTI in non-U.S. markets; • employment laws and related factors that could result in lower utilization and cyclical fluctuations of utilization and revenues; • currency fluctuations that adversely affect our financial position and operating results; • burdensome regulatory requirements and other barriers to conducting business; • greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • greater difficulties in managing and staffing foreign operations; • longer sales cycles; • restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; • differing accounting principles and standards; • potentially adverse tax consequences, such as trapped foreign losses; • different or less stable political and economic environments; and • civil disturbances or other catastrophic events that reduce business activity. If we are not able to quickly adapt to our new markets, our business prospects and results of operations could be negatively impacted. We rely heavily on our senior management team and practice leaders for the success of our business. We rely heavily on our senior management team and practice leaders to manage our practices. Given the highly specialized nature of our services and the scale of our operations, these people must have a thorough understanding of our service offerings as well as the skills and experience necessary to manage a large organization. If one or more members of our senior management team or our practice leaders leave and we cannot replace them with a suitable candidate quickly, we could experience difficulty in managing our business properly, and this could harm our business prospects, client relationships, employee morale and results of operations. Any claims involving the quality of our services could harm our overall professional reputation, which could harm our ability to compete for new business opportunities, retain and attract clients and engagements, and hire and retain qualified professionals. Many of our engagements involve complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment. Therefore, we are subject to the risk of professional liability. Often, our engagements involve matters that, if resolved unfavorably, may result in a severe impact on the client’s business, cause the client a substantial monetary loss or prevent the client from pursuing business opportunities. Since our ability to attract new clients and generate engagements depends upon our ability to maintain a high degree of client satisfaction as well as our reputation among industry professionals, any claims against us involving the quality of our services may be more damaging than similar claims against businesses in other industries. 18 Table of Contents We do not generally indemnify our clients; however, in certain cases, such as with clients who are governmental agencies or authorities, we may agree to indemnify them and their affiliates against third party liabilities. Indemnification provisions are negotiated on a contract-by-contract basis and in some cases may be reciprocal or may be coupled with limitations on the amount and type of damages that can be recovered. Any claim by a client or a third party against us could expose us to professional or other liabilities in excess of our insurance limits. We maintain a limited amount of liability insurance. The damages and/or expenses resulting from any successful claims against us, for indemnity or otherwise, in excess of our insurance limits would have to be borne directly by us and could seriously harm our profitability, financial resources and reputation. Our clients may terminate our engagements with little or no notice, which may cause us to experience unexpected declines in our profitability and utilization. Much of our business involves large client engagements that we staff with a substantial number of professionals. The engagement letters that we typically enter into with clients do not obligate them to continue to use our services. Typically, our engagement letters permit clients to terminate our services at any time. If our clients unexpectedly cancel engagements with us or curtail the scope of our engagements, we may be unable to replace the lost revenues from those engagements, quickly eliminate costs associated with those engagements, or quickly find other engagements to utilize our professionals. Any decrease in revenues without a corresponding reduction in our costs will likely harm our profitability. We face intense competition in our business. If we fail to compete effectively, we may miss new business opportunities or lose existing clients and our revenues and profitability may decline. Parties from whom we acquire assets may reenter the marketplace to compete with us in the future. The market for our consulting services is highly competitive. Our competitors range from large organizations, such as the national accounting firms and the large management consulting companies that offer a broad range of consulting services, to small firms and independent contractors that provide one specialized service. Some of our competitors have significantly more financial resources, larger professional staffs and greater brand recognition than we do. Since our business depends in a large part on professional relationships, our business has low barriers of entry for professionals wanting to start their own firms. In addition, it is relatively easy for professionals to change employers. We cannot assure we will continue to compete successfully for new business opportunities or retain our existing clients or professional employees. In connection with our acquisitions, we generally obtain non-solicitation agreements from the professionals we hire as well as non-competition agreements from senior managers and professionals. In some cases we enter into non-competition or non-solicitation arrangements generally with sellers. We cannot assure any one or more of the parties from whom we acquire assets or a business who do not join us, or persons who join us upon expiration or breach of their agreements not to compete or solicit, will not compete with us in the future. Also, the duration of those agreements are limited ranging from three to eight years after the acquisition date. Certain activities may be carved out of or otherwise may not be prohibited by those arrangements. Also, in some cases we may agree to restraints on our ability to compete with the sellers of those businesses with respect to certain practice areas or locations. Competition may harm our expected revenue growth and results of operations and cause the actual profitability of a business to differ materially from our expectations and the expectations of the investing public. We may have difficulty integrating our acquisitions, or convincing clients to allow assignment of their engagements to us, with a consequent detrimental effect on our financial results. The process of managing and integrating our future acquisitions into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial, operational and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the operation, development and expansion of our existing business. To the extent that we have miscalculated our ability to integrate and properly manage any or all of our acquisitions, we 19 Table of Contents may have difficulty in achieving our operating and strategic objectives. A substantial amount of our growth has been due to acquisitions. In 2006, we completed our acquisition of Competition Policy Associates, Inc., which we refer to as Compass. Compass is one of the top competition economics consulting firms in the world, with offices in Washington, D.C. and San Francisco. Compass provides services that involve sophisticated economic analysis in the context of antitrust disputes, mergers and acquisitions, regulatory and policy debates, and general commercial litigation across a broad range of industries in the United States, Europe and the Pacific Rim. This acquisition has been substantially integrated within FTI. As of October 4, 2006, we acquired substantially all of the share capital of FD. Based in London, FD is one of the world’s largest business and financial communications consultancies and provides a comprehensive range of solutions critical to today’s corporate boardroom. We also have made smaller acquisitions during 2005 and 2006. We may be unable to realize the financial, operational, and other benefits we anticipate from these acquisitions or any other acquisition. If we fail to integrate their operations, our results of operations and profitability could be negatively impacted. Further, acquisitions may involve a number of special financial, business and operational risks, such as: • difficulties in integrating diverse corporate cultures and management styles; • additional or conflicting government regulation; • disparate company polices and practices; • client relationship issues; • diversion of our management’s time, attention, and resources; • decreased utilization during the integration process • loss of key acquired personnel; • increased costs to improve or coordinate managerial, operational, financial, and administrative systems including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; • dilutive issuances of equity securities, including convertible debt securities to finance acquisitions; • the assumption of legal liabilities; • amortization of acquired intangible assets; and • potential write-offs related to the impairment of goodwill. Substantially all of our acquisitions, other than FD and Compass, have been structured as asset transactions. Asset transactions generally necessitate receipt of third party consents to assign client engagements. All clients might not affirmatively consent to an assignment. In addition, in some cases there are no written client contracts memorializing an engagement. Such engagements will only continue at the pleasure of those clients. In certain cases, such as government contracts and bankruptcy engagements, the consents of clients cannot be solicited until after the acquisition has closed. Further, such contracts may be subject to security clearance requirements or bidding provisions with which we might not be able to comply. There is no assurance that local, state and federal governments will agree to novate their contracts to us. In addition, in an engagement that involves a bankruptcy case, we must make a filing with the applicable U.S. Trustee, at which time such U.S. Trustee may find that we are no longer disinterested. In connection with such bankruptcy cases, we may be required to resign and to refund fees collected in connection with those engagements. We could be responsible for returning fees even if they were not paid to us, but rather to the company from whom we acquired the business. In some cases, we may not have legal recourse to demand that the seller of the business reimburse us. In addition to the integration challenges mentioned above, our acquisitions of non-U.S. companies, including FD, offer unique integration challenges relating to non-U.S. GAAP financial reporting, foreign laws and governmental regulations, and other factors some of which have been discussed above in the discussion regarding the difficulties we may face integrating the operations of FD and operating globally. 20 Table of Contents Our corporate finance/restructuring consulting practice has an increased risk of fee non-payment. Many of our clients have engaged us because they are experiencing financial distress. We recognize that these clients may not have sufficient funds to continue operations or to pay for our services. We typically do not receive retainers before we begin performing services on a client’s behalf in connection with a significant amount of our corporate finance/restructuring consulting practice. In the cases that we have received retainers, we cannot assure the retainers will adequately cover our fees for the services we perform on behalf of these clients. We are not always able to obtain retainers from clients in bankruptcy as the bankruptcy court must approve our retainers for those clients. Even if a bankruptcy court approves our retainer or engagement, a bankruptcy court has the discretion to require us to return all, or a portion of, our fees. Therefore, we face the risk of non-payment, which can result in write-offs. More write-offs than we expect in any period would have a negative impact on our results of operations. If the size, complexity and number of debt defaults, bankruptcy or restructuring actions or other factors affecting demand for our corporate finance/restructuring services declines, or if economic, legal, regulatory or other conditions beyond our control result in a reduced demand for our corporate finance/restructuring, forensic/litigation, economic, technology, strategic and financial communications consulting and other services, our revenues and profitability could suffer. Our corporate finance/restructuring consulting practice provides various restructuring and restructuring-related services to companies in financial distress or their creditors or other stakeholders. A number of factors outside of our control affect demand for our services. These include: • the availability and level of lending activity, interest rates and over-leveraging of companies; • over-expansion by various businesses; • merger and acquisition activity; • management problems; • governmental regulations; and • other general economic factors resulting in the decline in the economy in the U.S. We have also seen a decline of the mega-bankruptcy cases, resulting in a greater portion of our business being comprised of engagements relating to bankruptcy and restructuring matters involving mid-size companies, primarily as a result of general economic conditions, including the strengthening of the economy, the availability of credit and low interest rates. In our experience, mid-size bankruptcy and restructuring engagements are more susceptible to cyclical factors such as holidays and vacations. The shift to mid-size engagements could result in lower utilization, especially during the third and fourth quarters of any year due to these factors. Declines in demand for our restructuring, turnaround and bankruptcy services as well as smaller engagements could result in lower revenues and decrease our overall profitability. Our other practices, including forensic/litigation consulting, economic consulting, technology and strategic and financial communications consulting, are also driven by crisis situations that affect companies but which are outside of our control. We are not able to predict the effect future events or changes to the U.S. or global business environment could have on our operations. Changes to any of the factors described above as well as other events, including by way of example, tort reform, changes to laws and regulations, including recent changes to the bankruptcy code, decline in government enforcement, and alternative dispute resolution practices, or a decline in litigation, and declines in monetary damages or remedies that are sought, may have an adverse effect on one or more of our businesses. If we fail to find suitable acquisition candidates, or if we are unable to take advantage of opportunistic acquisition situations, our ability to expand may be curtailed. The number of suitable acquisition candidates may decline if the competition for acquisition candidates increases or the cost of acquiring acquisition candidates becomes too expensive. As a result, we may be unable to make acquisitions or be forced to pay more or agree to less advantageous acquisition terms for the companies 21 Table of Contents that we are able to acquire. Alternatively, at the time an acquisition opportunity presents itself, internal and external pressures (including, but not limited to, borrowing capacity under our amended and restated senior secured credit facility or the availability of alternative financing), may cause us to be unable to pursue or complete an acquisition. Our ability to grow our business, particularly through acquisitions, may depend on our ability to raise capital by selling equity or debt securities or obtaining additional debt financing. We cannot assure, however, that we will be able to obtain financing when we need it or on terms acceptable to us. In any case, we may be unable to grow our business or expand our service offerings as quickly as we have in the past and our profitability may decline. We may not manage our growth effectively, and our profitability may suffer. We have experienced rapid growth in recent years. This rapid expansion of our business may strain our management team, human resources and information systems. We cannot assure that we can successfully manage the integration of any businesses we may acquire or that they will result in the financial, operational and other benefits that we anticipate. To manage our growth successfully, we may need to add qualified managers and employees and periodically update our operating, financial and other systems, as well as our internal procedures and controls. We also must effectively motivate, train and manage a larger professional staff. Such expansion may result in significant expenditures. If we fail to add qualified managers and employees or manage our growth effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. Our revenues, operating income and cash flows are likely to fluctuate. We have experienced fluctuating revenues, operating income and cash flows and expect that this will occur from time to time in the future. We experience fluctuations in our annual or quarterly revenues and operating income because of the timing of our client assignments, utilization of our revenue-generating professionals, the types of assignments we are working on at different times, new hiring, acquisitions and decreased productivity because of vacations taken by our professionals. This means our profitability will likely decline if we experience an unexpected variation in the number or timing of client assignments or utilization, especially during the third quarter when substantial numbers of professionals take vacations, which reduces their utilization rates. We may also experience future fluctuations in our cash flows because of increased compensation, including changes to our incentive compensation structure and the timing of those payments, which we generally pay during the first quarter of each year. Also, the timing of future acquisitions and the cost of integrating them may cause fluctuations in our operating results. We may have a different system of governance and management from the companies we acquire or their parents, which could cause professionals who join us from acquired companies to leave us. Our governance and management practices and policies do not mirror the policies and practices of acquired companies or their parents. In some cases, different management practices and policies may lead to workplace dissatisfaction on the part of acquired professionals with our way of conducting business. The loss of one or more key professionals may harm our business and results of operations. Compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could adversely affect our competitive position; failure to comply could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and certain related laws, which generally prohibit U.S. companies from engaging in bribery of, or other prohibited payments to, foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. FD conducted substantial business outside of the U.S. prior to our acquisition of FD in October 2006. Corruption, bribery, pay-offs, and other fraudulent practices involving foreign officials occur from time-to-time in the markets in which FD operated and in which we now operate. We are currently not aware of any violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by our employees and agents, including employees and agents of FD prior to the October 2006 acquisition of FD. However, there is no assurance that employees and agents have not engaged and will not engage in misconduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe monetary penalties and other legal consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, properties, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our financial obligations. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2006, we had total indebtedness of $570.4 million and an additional $150.0 million of revolving availability under our senior secured credit facility senior secured credit facility, subject to $9.3 million of outstanding letters of credit. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • make it more difficult to satisfy our other financial obligations, including our obligations with respect to our 7 5/8% senior notes due 2013, 3 3/4% senior subordinated convertible notes due 2012 and 7 3/4% senior notes due 2016, collectively our notes; • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and • limit our ability to make future acquisitions. In addition, our notes and senior secured bank credit facility contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts. Despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our notes do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. As of December 31, 2006, we had an additional $150.0 million of revolving availability under our senior secured credit facility, subject to $9.3 million of outstanding letters of credit. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund capital expenditures and acquisitions will depend on our ability to generate cash. This, to a certain extent, is subject to economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Based on our current level of operations, we believe our cash flows from operations, available cash and available borrowings under our senior secured credit facility will be adequate to meet our liquidity needs for at least the next few years. We cannot assure, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations, that anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule or that future borrowings will be available to us under our amended and restated senior secured credit facility or that we can obtain alternative financing proceeds in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity 23 Table of Contents needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, on or before maturity. We cannot assure that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our amended and restated senior secured credit facility or the notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We may be required to pay substantial amounts in cash to holders of our convertible notes at the time of conversion prior to maturity. Our 3 3/4% senior subordinated convertible notes, or convertible notes, will mature on July 15, 2012. In addition, we may be required to pay substantial amounts in cash to holders of our convertible notes prior to their stated maturity at the time of conversion. The indentures governing our senior notes generally allow for these payments, and our senior secured credit facility permits these payments in some, but not all, circumstances. Payments of our convertible notes upon conversion could be construed to be a prepayment of principal on subordinated debt, and our existing and future senior debt may prohibit us from making those payments, or may restrict our ability to do so by requiring that we satisfy certain covenants relating to the making of restricted payments. If we are unable to pay the conversion consideration, we could seek consent from our senior creditors to make the payment. If we are unable to obtain their consent, we could attempt to refinance the debt. If we were unable to obtain consent or refinance the debt, we would be prohibited from paying the cash portion of the conversion consideration, in which case we would have an event of default under the indenture governing our convertible notes. An event of default under the convertible note indenture most likely would constitute an event of default under the indentures governing our senior notes and senior secured credit facility. The indenture governing the convertible notes provides that they are convertible only upon the occurrence of certain events. However, we generally will be unable to control timing of any conversion of the convertible notes. As a result of making cash payments on the convertible notes, we may not have sufficient cash to pay the principal of, or interest on, our other debt or fund our other cash needs. We may attempt to borrow under our senior secured credit facility to fund payments, but there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient availability under that or any successor facility or that our credit facility lenders will allow us to draw on that facility for the purpose of making payments on senior notes. Our indebtedness is guaranteed by substantially all of our domestic subsidiaries and will be required to be guaranteed by future subsidiaries including those organized or that join us in connection with an acquisition. Substantially all of our domestic subsidiaries guarantee our notes. They also guarantee our senior secured credit facility and their assets secure such indebtedness. Future subsidiaries formed or incorporated in the U.S., including those organized or acquired by us in connection with acquisitions, will be required to guarantee the notes and our senior secured bank debt and to pledge their assets as collateral for our senior secured credit facility. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 