Item 1A. Risk Factors Like all financial companies, the Company’s business and results of operations are subject to a number of risks, many of which are outside of the Company’s control. In addition to the other information in this report, readers should carefully consider that the following important factors, among others, could materially impact the Company’s business and future results of operations. Changes in Interest Rates Could Negatively Impact the Company’s Results of Operations The earnings of Premier are primarily dependent on net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments, and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including government monetary and fiscal policies; domestic and international economic and political conditions; and, in particular, changes in the discount rate by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, government borrowing and other factors beyond management’s control may also affect interest rates. If Premier’s interest-earning assets mature, reprice or prepay more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities in a given period, a decrease in market interest rates could adversely affect net interest income. Likewise, if interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice, or, in the case of deposits, are withdrawn by the accountholder more quickly than interest-earning assets in a given period, an increase in market interest rates could adversely affect net interest income. Given Premier’s current mix of assets and liabilities, a rising interest rate environment would have a positive impact on Premier’s results of operations, because the Company has more interest bearing assets than interest bearing liabilities and the interest bearing assets will likely reprice at higher rates more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities. Fixed rate loans increase Premier’s exposure to interest rate risk in a rising rate environment because interest-bearing liabilities would be subject to repricing before assets become subject to repricing. Adjustable rate loans decrease the risks to a lender associated with changes in interest rates but involve other risks. As interest rates rise, the periodic payment by the borrower rises to the extent permitted by the terms of the loan, and the increased periodic payment increases the potential for default. At the same time, for secured loans, the marketability of the underlying collateral may be adversely affected by higher interest rates. In a declining interest rate environment, there is likely to be an increase in prepayment activity on loans as the borrowers refinance their loans at lower interest rates. Under these circumstances, Premier’s results of operations could be negatively impacted. Adjustable rate loans that have an interest rate floor feature will exhibit the same characteristics as a fixed rate loan during the period market interest rates are below the floor. During this time and until the time market interest rates rise above the floor, Premier’s exposure to interest rate risk in a rising rate environment is increased because interest-bearing liabilities would be subject to repricing without a change in the interest rate on adjustable rate loans. 24 Table of Contents PREMIER FINANCIAL BANCORP, INC. FORM 10-K December 31, 2011 Changes in interest rates also can affect the value of loans, investments and other interest-rate sensitive assets and Premier’s ability to realize gains on the sale or resolution of assets. This type of income can vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year based on a number of different factors, including the interest rate environment. An increase in interest rates that adversely affects the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans may lead to an increase in non-performing assets and increased loan loss reserve requirements that could have a material adverse effect on Premier’s results of operations. Regional Economic Changes in the Company’s Markets Could Adversely Impact Results From Operations Like all banks, Premier is subject to the effects of any economic downturn, and in particular a significant decline in home values or reduced commercial development in Premier’s markets could have a negative effect on results of operations. Premier’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the counties in which Premier conducts business, and in the West Virginia, southern Ohio, northern Kentucky, northern and south central Virginia and the metro Washington, DC and Richmond, Virginia areas in general. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, Premier provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in the West Virginia counties of Barbour, Boone, Harrison, Lewis, Lincoln, Logan, Kanawha, Upshur, Roane, Jackson and Wood, the southern Ohio counties of Adams, Brown, Gallia, Lawrence and Scioto, the northern Kentucky counties of Bracken, Fleming, Greenup, Henry, Lewis, Mason, Robertson and Shelby, the metro Washington DC area including the surrounding portions of Virginia and Maryland and the Richmond and Hampton metro areas of Virginia. The local economic conditions in these market areas have a significant impact on Premier’s ability to originate loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A decline in the general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, government intervention or regulation, unemployment or other factors beyond Premier’s control would affect these local economic conditions and could adversely affect Premier’s financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, a significant decline in home values would likely lead to increased delinquencies and defaults in both the consumer home equity loan and residential real estate loan portfolios and result in increased losses in these portfolios. There has been a decline in the housing market and real estate markets and in the general economy, both nationally and locally, due to the recession that began in December 2007. Housing markets have deteriorated as evidenced by reduced levels of sales, increasing inventories of houses and condominiums on the market, declining house prices and an increase in the length of time houses remain on the market. It is possible that these conditions will not improve or will worsen or that such conditions will result in a decrease in Premier’s interest income, an increase in Premier’s non-performing loans, and/or an increase in Premier’s provision for loan losses. 25 Table of Contents PREMIER FINANCIAL BANCORP, INC. FORM 10-K December 31, 2011 Premier targets its business lending and marketing strategy for loans to serve primarily the banking and financial services needs of small to medium size businesses. These small to medium size businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact these businesses, Premier’s results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Extensive Regulation and Supervision Premier, primarily through the Affiliate Banks, is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect Premier’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Premier is also subject to a number of federal laws, which, among other things, require it to lend to various sectors of the economy and population, establish and maintain comprehensive programs relating to anti-money laundering and customer identification, and customer education programs to avoid excessive overdrafting. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect Premier in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject Premier to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products it may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, along with corrective action plans required by regulatory agencies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on Premier’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Premier and certain of its Affiliate Banks have in the past been subject to such corrective action plans, and therefore there may be some residual reputation damage within the regulatory agencies. While Premier has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. See the “Regulatory Matters” section in Item 1, “Business”. Dividend payments by subsidiaries to Premier and by Premier to its shareholders can be restricted. The Company’s principal source of funds for dividend payments and its debt service obligations is dividends received from the subsidiary Banks. Banking regulations limit the amount of dividends that may be paid without prior approval of regulatory agencies. Under these regulations, the amount of dividends that may be paid in any calendar year is limited to the current year’s net profits, as defined, combined with the retained net profits of the preceding two years, subject to the capital requirements and additional restrictions as discussed in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. During 2012 the Banks could, without prior approval, declare dividends of approximately $7.4 million plus any 2012 net profits retained to the date of the dividend declaration. 26 Table of Contents PREMIER FINANCIAL BANCORP, INC. FORM 10-K December 31, 2011 Premier is a separate and distinct legal entity from Premier’s subsidiaries. Premier receives nearly all of its revenue from dividends from is subsidiary banks, which are limited by federal banking laws and regulations. These dividends also serve as the primary source of funds to pay dividends on Premier’s common shares. The inability of Premier’s subsidiary banks to pay sufficient dividends to Premier could have a material, adverse effect on its business. In addition, Premier’s participation in the U.S. Treasury’s TARP Capital Purchase Program currently restricts the ability to increase the dividend payable to holders of common shares above $0.11 per share without prior approval of the U.S. Treasury. Further discussion of Premier’s ability to pay dividends can be found under the captions “Recent Corporate Developments – Written Agreement between Federal Reserve Bank and Premier”, “Regulatory Matters – TARP Capital Purchase Program”, “Regulatory Matters – Regulatory Agreements”, and “Regulatory Matters – Dividend Restrictions” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K and Note 20 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Extended Disruption of Vital Infrastructure Could Negatively Impact the Company’s Results of Operations and Financial Condition Premier’s operations depend upon, among other things, its technological and physical infrastructure, including its equipment and facilities. While disaster recovery procedures are in place, an extended disruption of its vital infrastructure by fire, power loss, natural disaster, telecommunications failure, computer hacking and viruses, terrorist activity or the domestic and foreign response to such activity, or other events outside of Premier’s control, could have a material adverse impact either on the financial services industry as a whole, or on Premier’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. New or Revised Tax, Accounting and Other Laws, Regulations, Rules and Standards Could Significantly Impact Strategic Initiatives, Results of Operations and Financial Condition The financial services industry is highly regulated and laws and regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on operations. These limitations, and sources of potential liability for the violation of such laws and regulations, are described under the heading “Business — Regulatory Matters” above. These regulations, along with the existing tax and accounting laws, regulations, rules and standards, control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business; implement strategic initiatives, as well as past, present, and contemplated tax planning; and govern financial disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, and standards are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. The nature, extent, and timing of the adoption of significant new laws, changes in existing laws, or repeal of existing laws may have a material impact on Premier’s results of operations and financial condition, the effects of which are impossible to predict at this time. 27 Table of Contents PREMIER FINANCIAL BANCORP, INC. FORM 10-K December 31, 2011 Defaults by Another Larger Financial Institution Could Adversely Affect Financial Markets Generally. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk”. Premier’s business could be adversely affected directly by the default of another institution or if the financial services industry experiences significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems. Market Volatility May Adversely Affect Market Price of Common Stock or Investment Security Values The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers seemingly without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. Market volatility could contribute to a further decline in the market value of certain security investments and other assets of Premier. If market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, Premier may experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on results of operations, capital or financial position. There Can Be No Assurance That Legislative And Regulatory Initiatives To Address Difficult Market And Economic Conditions Will Stabilize The U.S. Banking System. EESA, which established TARP, was signed into law on October 3, 2008. The purpose of TARP is to restore confidence and stability to the U.S. banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. As part of TARP, the U.S. Treasury established the Capital Purchase Program to provide up to $700 billion of funding to eligible financial institutions through the purchase of capital stock and other financial instruments for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Under the Capital Purchase Program, the U.S. Treasury purchased equity securities from participating institutions. On October 2, 2009, Premier entered into the UST Agreement with the U.S. Treasury providing for our issuance of the Series A Preferred Shares and the Warrant, pursuant to the Capital Purchase Program. The EESA also increased federal deposit insurance on most deposit accounts from $100,000 to $250,000. On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed ARRA, as a sweeping economic recovery package intended to stimulate the economy and provide for broad infrastructure, energy, health, and education needs. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that EESA or its programs, including the CPP, and ARRA or its programs, will have on the national economy or financial markets. The failure of these significant legislative measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our Common Shares. 28 Table of Contents PREMIER FINANCIAL BANCORP, INC. FORM 10-K December 31, 2011 There have been numerous actions undertaken in connection with or following EESA and ARRA by the Federal Reserve Board, the U.S. Congress, the U.S. Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others in efforts to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry that followed the sub-prime mortgage market meltdown that began in late 2007. These measures include: (i) homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; (ii) the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; (iii) the lowering of the federal funds rate; (iv) emergency action against short selling practices; (v) a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; (vi) the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and (vii) coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to help stabilize the U.S. banking system. EESA, ARRA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Because Of Our Participation In The Capital Purchase Program, We Are Subject To Several Restrictions Including Restrictions On Our Ability To Declare Or Pay Dividends And Repurchase Our Shares As Well As Restrictions On Compensation Paid To Our Executive Officers. Pursuant to the terms of the UST Agreement, our ability to declare or pay dividends on any of our shares is limited. Specifically, we are unable to declare dividend payments on Common Shares, junior preferred shares or pari passu preferred shares if we are in arrears on the payment of dividends on the Series A Preferred Shares. Premier is current on all of the dividends on its Series A Preferred Shares. Premier was required to defer the November 15, 2010 and February 15, 2011 quarterly dividends on its Series A Preferred Shares due restrictions placed on the Company by the Federal Reserve Board of Governors in conjunction with the July 29, 2010 Written Agreement between Consolidated Bank & Trust and the FRB. However the FRB gave Premier permission to pay those deferred dividends in conjunction with the May 15, 2011 quarterly dividend payment. Until any deferred dividends are paid on the Series A Preferred Shares, dividends to holders of Premier’s common shares will also be prohibited. In the event that cumulative dividends on the Series A Preferred Shares are not paid in full for an aggregate of six dividend periods or more, whether or not consecutive, the authorized number of directors of Premier would automatically be increased by two and the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock would have the right to elect two directors. The right to elect directors would end when dividends have been paid in full for four consecutive dividend periods. We are not permitted to increase dividends on our Common Shares above the amount of the last quarterly cash dividend per share declared prior to October 14, 2008 ($0.11 per share) without the U.S. Treasury’s approval until October 2, 2012, unless all of the Series A Preferred Shares have been redeemed or transferred by the U.S. Treasury to unaffiliated third parties. In addition, our ability to repurchase our shares is restricted. The consent of the U.S. Treasury generally is required for us to make any stock repurchase (other than in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice) until October 2, 2012, unless all of the Series A Preferred 29 Table of Contents PREMIER FINANCIAL BANCORP, INC. FORM 10-K December 31, 2011 Shares have been redeemed or transferred by the U.S. Treasury to unaffiliated third parties. Further, Common Shares, junior preferred shares or pari passu preferred shares may not be repurchased if we are in arrears on the payment of Series A Preferred Share dividends. Finally, the terms of the UST Agreement allow the U.S. Treasury to impose additional restrictions, including those on dividends and including unilateral amendments required to comply with changes in applicable federal law. Pursuant to the terms of the UST Agreement, we adopted the U.S. Treasury’s current standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the Treasury holds the equity securities issued pursuant to the UST Agreement, including the Common Shares that may be issued upon exercise of the Warrant. These standards generally apply to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers and, with respect to certain aspects of executive compensation, the next 5 most highly compensated employees. The standards include: (i) ensuring that incentive compensation plans and arrangements for senior executive officers do not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten our value; (ii) requiring clawback of any bonus or incentive compensation paid (or under a legally binding obligation to be paid) to a senior executive officer based on materially inaccurate financial statements or other materially inaccurate performance metric criteria; (iii) prohibition on making “golden parachute payments” to senior executive officers and the next 5 most highly compensated employees; and (iv) agreement not to claim a deduction, for federal income tax purposes, for compensation paid to any of the senior executive officers in excess of $500,000 per year. The adoption of ARRA on February 17, 2009 imposed certain new executive compensation and corporate expenditure limits on all TARP recipients, including the Company, until the institution has repaid the U.S. Treasury. The executive compensation standards are more stringent than those previously in effect under the Capital Purchase Program. On June 10, 2009, the U.S. Treasury issued Interim Final Rules on TARP compensation standards pursuant to ARRA: (1) prohibiting (in the case of Premier, which is receiving less than $25,000,000 in assistance) the most highly compensated employee from receiving any bonus or incentive compensation while TARP funds are outstanding that has a value greater than one-third of the total amount of such employee’s compensation, which may only be made by long-term restricted stock awards that cannot vest until TARP assistance is repaid; (2) excluding incentives for senior executive officers that would cause them to take unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the TARP recipient; (3) requiring recovery of any bonus or incentive compensation paid based on statements of earnings that are later found to be materially inaccurate; (4) requiring the TARP recipient’s board compensation committee to meet at least semiannually to evaluate employee compensation plans in light of any risk posed to the recipient by such plans; (5) requiring the board of directors to adopt a company-wide policy regarding excessive or luxury expenditures (including entertainment, office renovations, aviation services, or other activities that are not reasonable expenditures); (6) requiring a separate proxy vote by the shareholders at the annual shareholders meeting (on a non-binding basis) to approve executive compensation of the TARP recipient; and (7) requiring the TARP recipient’s chief executive officer and chief financial officer to annually certify the recipient’s compliance with these requirements. 30 Table of Contents PREMIER FINANCIAL BANCORP, INC. FORM 10-K December 31, 2011 Additional Capital May Not Be Available When Needed or Required by Regulatory Authorities. Premier and the Affiliate Banks are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. In addition, Premier may elect to raise additional capital to support its business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or it may otherwise elect or be required to raise additional capital. Premier’s ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside Premier’s control and its financial performance. Accordingly, Premier may not be able to raise additional capital if needed or on acceptable terms. If Premier cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Strong Competition Within the Company’s Market Area May Limit Profitability Premier faces significant competition both in attracting deposits and in the origination of loans. Mortgage bankers, commercial banks, credit unions and other savings institutions, which have offices in the market areas of the Affiliate Banks, have historically provided most of the competition for the Affiliate Banks for deposits; however, each Affiliate Bank also competes with financial institutions that operate through internet banking operations throughout the continental United States. In addition, and particularly in times of high interest rates, each Affiliate Bank faces additional and significant competition for funds from money market and mutual funds, securities firms, commercial banks, credit unions and other savings institutions located in the same communities and those that operate through Internet banking operations throughout the continental United States. Many competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than Premier and its Affilate Banks. Moreover, credit unions do not pay federal or state income taxes and are subject to fewer regulatory constraints than community banks and as a result, they may enjoy a competitive advantage over Premier. The Affiliate Banks compete for loans principally on the basis of the interest rates and loan fees they charge, the types of loans they originate and the quality of services they provide to borrowers. This advantage places significant competitive pressure on the prices of loans and deposits. Allowance for Loan Losses May Be Insufficient Premier, through the Affiliate Banks, maintains an allowance for loan losses based on, among other things, national and regional economic conditions, historical loss experience, evaluations of potential losses on identified problem loans and delinquency trends. Premier believes that its allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb any probable incurred losses in its loan portfolio given the current information known to management. These determinations are based upon estimates that are inherently subjective, and their accuracy depends on the outcome of future events. Therefore, Premier cannot predict loan losses with certainty and ultimate losses may differ from current estimates. Depending on changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which are generally beyond its control, Premier’s actual losses could exceed its current allowance 31 Table of Contents PREMIER FINANCIAL BANCORP, INC. FORM 10-K December 31, 2011 estimates. Premier’s allowance may not be sufficient to cover all charge-offs in future periods. If charge-offs exceed Premier’s allowance, its earnings would decrease. In addition, regulatory agencies review Premier’s allowance for loan losses and may require additions to the allowance based upon their judgment about information available to them at the time of their examination. A required increase in Premier’s allowance for loan losses could reduce its earnings. Loss of Large Checking and Money Market Deposit Customers Could Increase Cost of Funds and Have a Negative Effect on Results of Operations Premier has a number of large deposit customers that maintain balances in checking, money market and repurchase agreement accounts at the Affiliate Banks. The ability to attract these types of deposits has a positive effect on Premier’s net interest margin as they provide a relatively low cost of funds to Premier compared to certificates of deposits or advances. If these depositors were to withdraw these funds and the Affiliate Banks were not able to replace them with similar types of deposits, the cost of funds would increase and Premier’s results of operation would be negatively impacted. Integration of Recent Acquisitions May Be More Difficult Than Anticipated The success of Premier’s recent acquisitions of Citizens First Bank, Inc., Traders Bankshares, Inc., Abigail Adams and the four Integra Bank branches will depend on a number of factors, including (but not limited to) Premier’s ability to: • timely and successfully integrate the operations of Premier and each of the acquisitions; • maintain the existing relationships with the depositors of each acquisition to minimize the withdrawal of deposits subsequent to the merger(s); • maintain and enhance the existing relationships with the borrowers of each acquisition to limit potential losses from loans made by the them; • control the incremental non-interest expense of the integrated operations to maintain overall operating efficiencies; • retain and attract qualified personnel at each acquisition; and • compete effectively in the communities served by each acquisition and in nearby communities. 32 Table of Contents PREMIER FINANCIAL BANCORP, INC. FORM 10-K December 31, 2011 Integration of Recent and Pending Internal Subsidiary Mergers May Be More Difficult Than Anticipated The success of Premier’s recent internal merger of First Central Bank, Traders Bank, Adams National Bank and Consolidated Bank & Trust into Boone County Bank to form Premier Bank and the planned internal merger of Ohio River Bank and Farmers Deposit Bank into Citizens Deposit Bank and Trust will depend on a number of factors, including (but not limited to) Premier’s ability to: • timely and successfully integrate the operations of the merging subsidiaries into a cohesive single bank operation; • maintain the existing relationships with the depositors of each of the merging subsidiaries to minimize the withdrawal of deposits subsequent to the merger(s); • maintain and enhance the existing relationships with the borrowers of each of the merging subsidiares to limit potential losses from loans made by the them; • control the incremental non-interest expense of the integrated operations to maintain overall operating efficiencies; • retain and attract qualified personnel at each resulting institution; and • compete effectively in the communities served by each of the merging subsidiaries and in nearby communities. Concentration of Commercial Real Estate and Commercial Business Loans in the Washington, D.C. Market Area May Increase Credit Risk in the Loan Portfolio These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operations and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Premier’s success in the metro Washington, D.C. market area depends primarily on the local general economic conditions in the area. The local economic conditions in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area have a significant impact on its loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Real estate values have suffered from declines in the Washington, D.C. market area, which may affect the bank’s financial condition. If Premier continues to receive updated appraisals revealing significant additional weakness in the value of the collateral securing loans in the Washington, D.C. market area, it will likely result in further losses. Also, many of the local borrowers have more than one commercial real estate or commercial business loan outstanding with Premier. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose Premier to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond Premier’s control would impact these local economic conditions and could negatively affect the financial results of its banking operations. 33 Table of Contents PREMIER FINANCIAL BANCORP, INC. FORM 10-K December 31, 2011 Premier’s expenses will increase as a result of increases in FDIC insurance premiums. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation imposes an assessment against institutions for deposit insurance. This assessment is based on the risk category of the institution and ranges from 5 to 43 basis points of the institution’s deposits. Federal law requires that the designated reserve ratio for the deposit insurance fund be established by the FDIC at 1.15% to 1.50% of estimated insured deposits. If this reserve ratio drops below 1.15% or the FDIC expects that it will do so within six months, the FDIC must, within 90 days, establish and implement a plan to restore the designated reserve ratio to 1.15% of estimated insured deposits within five years (absent extraordinary circumstances). Recent bank failures coupled with deteriorated economic conditions have significantly reduced the deposit insurance fund’s reserve ratio. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC issued a final rule imposing a special assessment of 5 basis points on total assets less tier 1 capital on June 30, 2009, which was collected on September 30, 2009. For Premier this assessment was booked as a second quarter 2009 expense. The rule also provides the FDIC with authority to impose up to two additional assessments of up to 5 basis points each on total assets less tier 1 capital. In addition, EESA temporarily increased the limit on FDIC insurance coverage for deposits to $250,000 through December 31, 2009. This increase has now been permanently extended by the Dodd-Frank Act. The FDIC also took action to provide coverage for newly-issued senior unsecured debt and non-interest bearing transaction accounts and for unsecured debt and non-interest bearing transaction and certain NOW accounts in excess of the $250,000 limit, for which institutions will be assessed additional premiums. In 2009, the temporary increase in FDIC insurance coverage was extended through December 31, 2013. These actions increased Premier’s combined non-interest expense in 2009 and may increase non-interest expense in future years as long as the increased premiums and coverages are in place. Claims and Litigation Pertaining to Fiduciary Responsibility From time to time, shareholders or customers may make claims and take legal action pertaining to Premier’s and the Affiliate Banks’ performance of their fiduciary responsibilities. Defending such claims can impose a material expense on Premier. If such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to the Affiliate Banks they may result in financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of the Affiliate Banks and their products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on Premier’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations 34 Table of Contents PREMIER FINANCIAL BANCORP, INC. FORM 10-K December 31, 2011 Unauthorized Disclosure of Sensitive or Confidential Customer Information Could Severely Harm Our Business. In the normal course of business, the Affiliate Banks collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential customer information to both open deposit accounts and determine whether to approve a customer’s request for a loan. Premier also relies upon a variety of computing platforms and networks over the internet for the purposes of data processing, communication and information exchange, including a variety of services provided by third-party vendors. Despite the security measures in place, Premier’s facilities and systems, and those of Premier’s third-party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. If information security is breached, information can be lost or misappropriated resulting in financial loss or costs to Premier or damages to others. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer information, whether by Premier or by its vendors, could severely damage Premier’s reputation, expose it to the risks of litigation and liability or disrupt the business operations of Premier which in turn, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Inability to Hire and Retain Qualified Employees Premier’s performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals and their ability to attract and retain customer relationships in a community bank environment. There is intense competition in the financial services industry for qualified employees. In addition, Premier faces increasing competition with businesses outside the financial services industry for the most highly skilled individuals. Premier’s business could be adversely affected if it were unable to retain and motivate its existing key employees and management team. Furthermore, Premier’s success may be impacted if it were unable to recruit replacement management and key employees in a reasonable amount of time. Premier is subject to several restrictions on compensation paid to Premier’s executive officers because of its participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program. As a recipient of government funding under the TARP Capital Purchase Program, Premier must comply with the executive compensation and corporate governance standards imposed by the ARRA and the standards established by the Secretary of the Treasury under the ARRA. The restrictions on executive compensation under these standards are more fully described in Item 1 of this Form 10-K under the caption “Regulatory Matters – TARP Capital Purchase Program”. These standards could impact Premier’s ability to hire or retain key executives or cause Premier to make material changes to its current compensation plans and philosophy that could result in higher compensation costs in future periods. 35 Table of Contents PREMIER FINANCIAL BANCORP, INC. FORM 10-K December 31, 2011 Future Issuances of Common Shares or Other Securities May Dilute the Value of Outstanding Common Shares, Which May Also Adversely Affect their Market Price In many situations, Premier’s Board of Directors has the authority, without any vote of its shareholders, to issue shares of authorized but unissued securities, including common shares authorized and unissued under Premier’s stock option plans and shares of Premier preferred stock. In the future, Premier may issue additional securities, through public or private offerings, in order to raise additional capital, complete acquisitions, or compensate key employees. Any such issuance would dilute the percentage of ownership interest of existing shareholders and may dilute the per share value of the common stock. The Series A Preferred Shares Impact Net Income Available to Common Shareholders, and the Warrant May Be Dilutive to Premier’s Common Shareholders. The additional capital Premier raised through its participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program has increased Premier’s equity and the number of dilutive outstanding common shares. In addition, the dividends declared and the accretion of discount on the Series A Preferred Shares reduces the net income available to Premier’s common shareholders and earning per common share. The Series A Preferred Shares will also receive preferential treatment in the event of Premier’s liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Additionally, the ownership interest of Premier’s existing common shareholders will be diluted to the extent the Warrant Premier issued to the U.S. Treasury is exercised. Although the U.S. Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the common shares it receives upon exercise of the Warrant, a transferee of any portion of the Warrant or of any common shares acquired upon exercise of the Warrant is not bound by this agreement. If Premier is Unable to Redeem the Series A Preferred Shares After Five Years, the Cost of This Capital Will Increase Substantially. If Premier is unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Shares prior to November 15, 2014, the cost of this capital will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% per annum to 9.0% per annum. Depending on Premier’s financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Shares could have a material negative effect on Premier’s liquidity. 36 Table of Contents PREMIER FINANCIAL BANCORP, INC. FORM 10-K December 31, 2011 If a Subsidiary Bank’s Current Capital Ratios Decline Below the Regulatory Threshold for an “Adequately Capitalized” Institution, the Bank Will Be Considered “Undercapitalized” Which May Have a Material and Adverse Effect on Premier. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA) requires each federal banking agency to take prompt corrective action with respect to banks that do no meet the minimum capital requirements. Once a bank becomes undercapitalized, it is subject to various requirements and restrictions, including a prohibition of the payment of capital distributions and management fees, restrictions on growth of the bank’s assets, and a requirement for prior regulatory approval of certain expansion proposals. In addition, an undercapitalized bank must file a capital restoration plan with its principal federal regulator. If an undercapitalized bank fails in any material aspect to implement a plan approved by its regulator, the agency may impose additional restrictions on the bank. These include, among others, requiring the recapitalization or sale of the bank, restrictions with affiliates, and limiting the interest rates the bank may pay on deposits. Further, even after the bank has attained adequately capitalized status, the appropriate federal agency may, if it determines, after notice and hearing, that the bank is in an unsafe or unsound condition or has not corrected a deficiency from its most recent examination, treat the bank as if it were undercapitalized and subject the bank to the regulatory restrictions of such lower classification. In addition to measures taken under the prompt corrective action provisions with respect to undercapitalized institutions, insured banks and their holding companies may be subject to potential enforcement actions by their regulators for unsafe and unsound practices in conducting their business or the violations of law or regulation, including the filing of false or misleading regulatory reports. Enforcement actions under this authority may include the issuance of cease and desist orders, the imposition of civil money penalties, the issuance of directives to increase capital, formal and informal agreements, or the removal and prohibition orders against “institution-affiliates parties”. Further, the Federal Reserve may bring an enforcement action against the bank holding company either to address the undercapitalization in the holding company or to require the holding company to implement measures to remediate undercapitalization in a subsidiary. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 37 Table of Contents PREMIER FINANCIAL BANCORP, INC. FORM 10-K December 31, 2011 