Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this report, investors should consider carefully the following risk factors when evaluating the Company’s business. Revlon, Inc. is a holding company with no business operations of its own and is dependent on its subsidiaries to pay certain expenses and dividends. In addition, shares of the capital stock of Products Corporation, Revlon, Inc.’s wholly-owned operating subsidiary, are pledged by Revlon, Inc. to secure its obligations under the 2006 Credit Agreements. Revlon, Inc. is a holding company with no business operations of its own. Revlon, Inc.’s only material asset is all of the outstanding capital stock of Products Corporation, Revlon, Inc.’s wholly-owned operating subsidiary, through which Revlon, Inc. conducts its business operations. As such, Revlon, Inc.’s net (loss) income has historically consisted predominantly of its equity in the net (loss) income of Products Corporation, which for 2007, 2006 and 2005 was approximately $(9.0) million, $(244.5) million and $(77.8) million, respectively, which excluded approximately $7.0 million, $6.6 million and $7.6 million, respectively, in expenses primarily related to Revlon, Inc. being a public holding company. Revlon, Inc. is dependent on the earnings and cash flow of, and dividends and distributions from, Products Corporation to pay Revlon, Inc.’s expenses incidental to being a public holding company. Products Corporation m ay not generate sufficient cash flow to pay dividends or distribute funds to Revlon, Inc. because, for example, Products Corporation may not generate sufficient cash or net income; state laws may restrict or prohibit Products Corporation from issuing dividends or making distributions unless Products Corporation has sufficient surplus or net profits, which Products Corporation may not have; or because contractual restrictions, including negative covenants contained in Products Corporation’s various debt instruments, may prohibit or limit such dividends or distributions. The terms of the 2006 Credit Agreements, the MacAndrews & Forbes Senior Subordinated Term Loan Agreement and the indenture governing Products Corporation’s outstanding 9½% Senior Notes generally restrict Products Corporation from paying dividends or making distributions, except that Products Corporation is permitted to pay dividends and make distributions to Revlon, Inc., among other things, to enable Revlon, Inc. to make certain payments and pay expenses incidental to being a public holding company. All of the shares of the capital stock of Products Corporation held by Revlon, Inc. are pledged to secure Revlon, Inc.’s guarantee of Products Corporation’s obligations under the 2006 Credit Agreements. A foreclosure upon the shares of Products Corporation’s common stock would result in Revlon, Inc. no longer holding its only material asset and would have a material adverse effect on the holders of Revlon, Inc.’s Common Stock and would be a change of control under Products Corporation’s other debt instruments. Products Corporation’s substantial indebtedness could adversely affect the Company’s operations and flexibility and Products Corporation’s ability to service its debt. Products Corporation has a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness. As of December 31, 2007, the Company’s total indebtedness was $1,441.0 million, primarily including $167.4 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of Products Corporation’s 85/8% Senior Subordinated Notes (the outstanding balance of which was repaid in full on February 1, 2008 — See ‘‘Recent Developments’’), $387.5 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of Products Corporation’s 9½% Senior Notes, $840.0 million 12 Table of Contents aggregate principal amount outstanding under the 2006 Term Loan Facility, and $43.5 million aggregate principal amount outstanding under the 2006 Revolving Credit Facility. In connection with the refinancing of the 85/8% Senior Subordinated Notes, as of February 1, 2008, Products Corporation had $170 million of aggregate principal amount outstanding under the MacAndrews & Forbes Senior Subordinated Term Loan, which amount was used to repay the $167.4 million aggregate principal amount outstanding under the 85/8% Senior Subor dinated Notes and to pay certain transaction fees and expenses. The Company has a history of net losses and, in addition, if it is unable to achieve sustained profitability in future periods, it could adversely affect the Company’s operations and Products Corporation’s ability to service its debt. The Company is subject to the risks normally associated with substantial indebtedness, including the risk that the Company’s operating revenues will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest, and the risk that Products Corporation will be unable to refinance existing indebtedness when it becomes due or that the terms of any such refinancing will be less favorable than the current terms of such indebtedness. Products Corporation’s substantial indebtedness could also: • limit the Company’s ability to fund (including by obtaining additional financing) the costs and expenses of the execution of the Company’s business strategy, future working capital, capital expenditures, advertising or promotional expenses, new product development costs, purchases and reconfiguration of wall displays, acquisitions, investments, restructuring programs and other general corporate requirements; • require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on Products Corporation’s indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of the Company’s cash flow for the execution of the Company’s business strategy and for other general corporate purposes; • place the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt; • limit the Company’s flexibility in responding to changes in its business and the industry in which it operates; and • make the Company more vulnerable in the event of adverse economic conditions or a downturn in its business. Although agreements governing Products Corporation’s indebtedness, including the indenture governing Products Corporation’s outstanding 9½% Senior Notes, the 2006 Credit Agreements and the MacAndrews & Forbes Senior Subordinated Term Loan Agreement, limit Products Corporation’s ability to borrow additional money and under certain circumstances Products Corporation is allowed to borrow a significant amount of additional money, some of which, in certain circumstances and subject to certain limitations, could be secured indebtedness. Products Corporation’s ability to pay the principal of its indebtedness depends on many factors. The MacAndrews & Forbes Senior Subordinated Term Loan expires in August 2009, the 9½% Senior Notes mature in April 2011 and the 2006 Credit Agreements mature in January 2012. Products Corporation currently anticipates that, in order to pay the principal amount of its outstanding indebtedness upon the occurrence of any event of default, to repurchase its 9½% Senior Notes if a change of control occurs or in the event that Products Corporation’s cash flows from operations are insufficient to allow it to pay the principal amount of its indebtedness at maturity, the Company may be required to refinance Products Corporation’s indebtedness, seek to sell assets or operations, seek to sell additional Revlon, Inc. equity or debt securities or Products Corporation debt securities or seek additional capital contributions or loans from MacAndrews & Forbes or from the Company’s other affiliates or third parties. Revlon, I nc. is a public holding company and has no business operations of its own, and Revlon, Inc.’s only material asset is the capital stock of Products Corporation. None of the Company’s affiliates are required to make any capital contributions, loans or other payments to Products Corporation regarding its obligations on its indebtedness. Products Corporation may not be able to pay the principal amount of its indebtedness if the Company took any of the above actions because, under certain circumstances, the indenture governing Products Corporation’s outstanding 9½% Senior Notes or any of its other debt 13 Table of Contents instruments (including the 2006 Credit Agreements and the MacAndrews & Forbes Senior Subordinated Term Loan Agreement) or the debt instruments of Products Corporation’s subsidiaries then in effect may not permit the Company to take such actions. (See ‘‘Restrictions and covenants in Products Corporation’s debt agreements limit its ability to take certain actions and impose consequences in the event of failure to comply’’). Restrictions and covenants in Products Corporation’s debt agreements limit its ability to take certain actions and impose consequences in the event of failure to comply. Agreements governing Products Corporation’s indebtedness, including the 2006 Credit Agreements, the agreement governing the MacAndrews & Forbes Senior Subordinated Term Loan Agreement and the indenture governing Products Corporation’s outstanding 9½% Senior Notes, contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit Products Corporation’s ability and its subsidiaries’ ability, among other things (subject in each case to limited exceptions), to: • borrow money; • use assets as security in other borrowings or transactions; • pay dividends on stock or purchase stock; • sell assets; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and • make certain investments. In addition, the 2006 Credit Agreements contain financial covenants limiting Products Corporation’s senior secured debt-to-EBITDA ratio (in the case of the 2006 Term Loan Agreement) and, under certain circumstances, requiring Products Corporation to maintain a minimum consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio (in the case of the 2006 Revolving Credit Agreement). These covenants affect Products Corporation’s operating flexibility by, among other things, restricting its ability to incur expenses and indebtedness that could be used to fund the costs of executing the Company’s business strategy and to grow the Company’s business, as well as to fund general corporate purposes. The breach of certain covenants contained in the 2006 Credit Agreements would permit Products Corporation’s lenders to accelerate amounts outstanding under the 2006 Credit Agreements, which would in turn constitute an event of default under the MacAndrews & Forbes Senior Subordinated Term Loan Agreement and the indenture governing Products Corporation’s outstanding 9½% Senior Notes, if the amount accelerated exceeds $25.0 million and such default remains uncured for 10 days following notice from MacAndrews & Forbes with respect to the MacAndrews & Forbes Senior Subordinated Term Loan Agreement or the trustee or holders of the applicable percentage under the 9½% Senior Notes indenture. In addition, holders of Products Corporation’s outstanding 9½% Senior Notes may require Products Corporation to repurchase their respective notes in the event of a change of control under the 9½% Senior Notes indenture. (See ‘‘Products Corporation’s ability to pay the principal of its indebtedness depends on many factors’’). Products Corporation may not have sufficient funds at the time of any such breach of any such covenant or change of control to repay in full the borrowings under the 2006 Credit Agreements, the MacAndrews & Forbes Senior Subordinated Term Loan Agreement or to repurchase or redeem its outstanding 9½% Senior Notes. Events beyond the Company’s control, such as decreased consumer spending in response to weak economic conditions or weakness in the cosmetics category in the mass retail channel; adverse changes in currency; decreased sales of the Company’s products as a result of increased competitive activities by the Company’s competitors; changes in consumer purchasing habits, including with respect to shopping channels; retailer inventory management; retailer space reconfigurations or reductions in retailer display space; less than anticipated results from the Company’s existing or new products or from its advertising and/or marketing plans; or if the Company’s expenses, including, without limitation, for advertising and promotions or for returns related to any reduction of retail space, product discontinuances or otherwise, exceed the anticipated level of expenses, could impair the Company’s operating performance, which could affect Prod ucts Corporation’s ability and that of its subsidiaries to comply with the terms of Products Corporation’s debt instruments. 14 Table of Contents Under such circumstances, Products Corporation and its subsidiaries may be unable to comply with the provisions of Products Corporation’s debt instruments, including the financial covenants in the 2006 Credit Agreements. If Products Corporation is unable to satisfy such covenants or other provisions at any future time, Products Corporation would need to seek an amendment or waiver of such financial covenants or other provisions. The respective lenders under the 2006 Credit Agreements may not consent to any amendment or waiver requests that Products Corporation may make in the future, and, if they do consent, they may not do so on terms which are favorable to it and/or Revlon, Inc. In the event that Products Corporation was unable to obtain any such waiver or amendment and it was not able to refinance or repay its debt instruments, Products Corporation’s inability to meet the financial covenants or other provisions of the 2006 Credit Agreements would constitute an event of default under its debt instruments, including the 2006 Credit Agreements, which would permit the bank lenders to accelerate the 2006 Credit Agreements, which in turn would constitute an event of default under the MacAndrews & Forbes Senior Subordinated Term Loan Agreement and the indenture governing Products Corporation’s outstanding 9½% Senior Notes, if the amount accelerated exceeds $25.0 million and such default remains uncured for 10 days following notice from MacAndrews & Forbes with respect to the MacAndrews & Forbes Senior Subordinated Term Loan Agreement or the trustee under the 9½% Senior Notes indenture. Products Corporation’s assets and/or cash flow and/or that of Products Corporation’s subsidiaries may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under its outstanding debt instruments, either upon maturity or if accelerated upon an event of default, and if Products Corporation was required to repurchase its outstanding 9½% Senior Notes or repay the MacAndrews & Forbes Senior Subordinated Term Loan upon a change of control, Products Corporation may be unable to refinance or restructure the payments on such debt. Further, if Products Corporation was unable to repay, refinance or restructure its indebtedness under the 2006 Credit Agreements, the lenders could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. Limits on Products Corporation’s borrowing capacity under the 2006 Revolving Credit Facility may affect the Company’s ability to finance its operations. While the 2006 Revolving Credit Facility currently provides for up to $160.0 million of commitments, Products Corporation’s ability to borrow funds under this facility is limited by a borrowing base determined relative to the value, from time to time, of eligible accounts receivable and eligible inventory in the U.S. and the U.K. and eligible real property and equipment in the U.S. If the value of these eligible assets is not sufficient to support the full $160.0 million borrowing base, Products Corporation will not have full access to the 2006 Revolving Credit Facility, but rather could have access to a lesser amount determined by the borrowing base. Further, if Products Corporation borrows funds under this facility, subsequent changes in the value or eligibility of the assets within the borrowing base could cause Products Corporation to be required to pay down the amounts outstanding so that there is no amount outstanding in excess of the then-existing borrowing base. Products Corporation’s ability to make borrowings under the 2006 Revolving Credit Facility is also conditioned upon its compliance with other covenants in the 2006 Revolving Credit Agreement, including a fixed charge coverage ratio that applies when the ‘‘excess borrowing base’’ (representing the difference between (1) the borrowing base under the 2006 Revolving Credit Facility and (2) the amounts outstanding under such facility) is less than $20.0 million. Because of these limitations, Products Corporation may not always be able to meet its cash requirements with funds borrowed under the 2006 Revolving Credit Facility, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. At January 31, 2008, the 2006 Term Loan Facility was fully drawn, and the Company had a liquidity position (excluding cash in compensating balance accounts) of approximately $185.7 million, consisting of cash and cash equivalents (net of any outstanding checks) of $50.2 million, as well as $135.5 million in available borrowings under the 2006 Revloving Credit Facility, based upon the calculated borrowing base less approximately $14.5 million of outstanding letters of credit and $10.0 million then drawn on the 2006 Revolving Credit Facility. 15 Table of Contents A substantial portion of Products Corporation’s indebtedness is subject to floating interest rates. A substantial portion of Products Corporation’s indebtedness is subject to floating interest rates, which makes the Company more vulnerable in the event of adverse economic conditions, increases in prevailing interest rates or a downturn in the Company’s business. As of December 31, 2007, $735.5 million of Products Corporation’s total indebtedness, or approximately 51% of Products Corporation’s total indebtedness, was subject to floating interest rates, after giving effect to the interest rate swap transaction that Products Corporation entered into in September 2007, which effectively fixed through September 17, 2009 the LIBOR portion of the interest rate on $150.0 million of aggregate principal amount on indebtedness outstanding under the 2006 Term Loan Facility at 4.692%. Under the 2006 Term Loan Facility, loans bear interest, at Products Corporation’s option, at either the Eurodollar Rate plus 4.0% per annum, which is based upon LIBOR, or the Alternate Base Rate (as defined in the 2006 Term Loan Agreement) plus 3.0% per annum, which Alternate Base Rate is based on the greater of Citibank, N.A.’s announced base rate and the U.S. federal funds rate plus 0.5%; provided that pursuant to the interest rate swap transaction that Products Corporation entered into in September 2007 with Citibank, N.A. acting as the counterparty, the LIBOR portion of the interest rate on $150.0 million of outstanding indebtedness under the 2006 Term Loan Facility was effectively fixed at 4.692% through September 17, 2009. Under the terms of the interest rate swap transaction, Products Corporation is required to pay to the counterparty a quarterly fixed interest rate of 4.692% on the $150.0 million notional amount, whic h commenced in December 2007, while receiving a variable interest rate payment from the counterparty equal to three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR. Borrowings under the 2006 Revolving Credit Facility (other than loans in foreign currencies) bear interest at a rate equal to, at Products Corporation’s option, either (i) the Eurodollar Rate plus 2.0% per annum or (ii) the Alternate Base Rate (as defined in the 2006 Revolving Credit Agreement) plus 1.0% per annum. Loans in foreign currencies bear interest in certain limited circumstances, or if mutually acceptable to Products Corporation and the relevant foreign lenders, at the Local Rate, and otherwise at the Eurocurrency Rate (as each such term is defined in the 2006 Revolving Credit Agreement), in each case plus 2.0%. If any of LIBOR, the base rate, the U.S. federal funds rate or such equivalent local currency rate increases, the Company’s debt service costs will increase to the extent that Products Corporation has elected such rates for its outstanding loans. Based on the amounts outstanding under the 2006 Credit Agreements and other short-term borrowings (which, in the aggregate, is Products Corporation’s only debt currently subject to floating interest rates) as of December 31, 2007, an increase in LIBOR of 1% would increase the Company’s annual interest expense by approximately $7.5 million. Increased debt service costs would adversely affect the Company’s cash flow. While Products Corporation may enter into other interest hedging contracts, it may not be able to do so on a cost-effective basis, any additional hedging transactions it might enter into may not achieve their intended purpose and shifts in interest rates may have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company depends on its Oxford, North Carolina facility for production of a substantial portion of its products. Disruptions to this facility could affect the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The Company produces a substantial portion of its products at its Oxford, North Carolina facility. Significant unscheduled downtime at this facility due to equipment breakdowns, power failures, natural disasters, weather conditions hampering delivery schedules or other disruptions, including those caused by transitioning manufacturing from other facilities to the Company’s Oxford, North Carolina facility, or any other cause could adversely affect the Company’s ability to provide products to its customers, which would affect the Company’s sales, business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Additionally, if product sales exceed forecasts, the Company could, from time to time, not have an adequate supply of products to meet customer demands, which could cause the Company to lose sales. 16 Table of Contents The Company’s new product introductions may not be as successful as the Company anticipates, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The Company has implemented a rigorous process for the continuous development and evaluation of new product concepts, formed in 2007 and led by senior executives in marketing, sales, product development, operations and finance, which has improved the Company’s new product commercialization process and created a comprehensive, long-term portfolio strategy. This new process is intended to optimize the Company’s ability to regularly bring to market its innovative new product offerings and to manage the Company’s product portfolio for profitable growth over time. Each new product launch, including those resulting from this new product development process, carries risks, as well as the possibility of unexpected consequences, including: • the acceptance of the new product launches by, and sales of such new products to, the Company’s retail customers may not be as high as the Company anticipates; • the Company’s advertising and marketing strategies for its new products may be less effective than planned and may fail to effectively reach the targeted consumer base or engender the desired consumption; • the rate of purchases by the Company’s consumers may not be as high as the Company anticipates; • the Company’s wall displays to showcase the new products may fail to achieve their intended effects; • the Company may experience out-of-stocks and/or product returns exceeding its expectations as a result of its new product launches or reductions in retail display space; • the Company may incur costs exceeding its expectations as a result of the continued development and launch of new products, including, for example, advertising and promotional expenses, sales return expenses or other costs, including trade support, related to launching new products; • the Company may experience a decrease in sales of certain of the Company’s existing products as a result of newly-launched products; • the Company’s product pricing strategies for new product launches may not be accepted by its retail customers and/or its consumers, which may result in the Company’s sales being less than it anticipates; and • any delays or difficulties impacting the Company’s ability, or the ability of the Company’s suppliers to timely manufacture, distribute and ship products, displays or display walls in connection with launching new products, such as due to inclement weather conditions or those delays or difficulties discussed under ‘‘ — The Company depends on its Oxford, North Carolina facility for production of a substantial portion of its products. Disruptions to this facility could affect the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations,’’ could affect the Company’s ability to ship and deliver products to meet its retail customers’ reset deadlines. Each of the risks referred to above could delay or impede the Company’s ability to achieve its sales objectives, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company has implemented the organizational realignment and streamlining programs in 2006 and 2007, which may affect employee morale and retention. The Company implemented the organizational realignment and streamlining programs in 2006 and 2007 which have resulted in significant reductions in administrative expenses, principally by consolidating responsibilities in certain related functions; reducing layers of management to increase accountability and effectiveness; streamlining support functions to reflect the new organizational structure; eliminating positions; and consolidating various facilities. While these changes were designed to streamline internal processes, provide greater empowerment and accountability to employees and to enable the Company to 17 Table of Contents continue to be more effective and efficient in meeting the needs of its consumers and retail customers, operating in this leaner environment could affect employee morale and retention. The Company’s ability to service its debt and meet its cash requirements depends on many factors, including achieving anticipated levels of revenue and expenses. If such revenue or expense levels prove to be other than as anticipated, the Company may be unable to meet its cash requirements or Products Corporation may be unable to meet the requirements of the financial covenants under the 2006 Credit Agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The Company currently expects that operating revenues, cash on hand, and funds available for borrowing under the 2006 Revolving Credit Agreement and other permitted lines of credit will be sufficient to enable the Company to cover its operating expenses for 2008, including cash requirements in connection with the execution of the Company’s business strategy, purchases of permanent wall displays, capital expenditure requirements, payments in connection with the Company’s restructuring programs (including, without limitation, the 2006 Programs, the 2007 Programs and prior programs), executive severance not otherwise included in the Company’s restructuring programs, debt service payments and costs and regularly scheduled pension and post-retirement plan contributions. If the Company’s anticipated level of revenue is not achieved, however, because of, for example, decreased consumer spending in response to weak economic conditions or weakness in the cosmetics category in the mass retail channel; adverse changes in currency; decreased sales of the Company’s products as a result of increased competitive activities by the Company’s competitors; changes in consumer purchasing habits, including with respect to shopping channels; retailer inventory management; retailer space reconfigurations or reductions in retailer display space; less than anticipated results from the Company’s existing or new products or from its advertising and/or marketing plans; or if the Company’s expenses, including, without limitation, for advertising and promotions or for returns related to any reduction of retail space, product discontinuances or otherwise, exceed the anticipated level of expenses, the Company’s current sources of funds may be insufficient to meet its cash requirements. In addition, such developments, if significant, could reduce the Company’s revenues and could adversely affect Products Corporation’s ability to comply with certain financial covenants under the 2006 Credit Agreements. If operating revenues, cash on hand and funds available for borrowing are insufficient to cover the Company’s expenses or are insufficient to enable Products Corporation to comply with the financial covenants under the 2006 Credit Agreements, the Company could be required to adopt one or more alternatives listed below. For example, the Company could be required to: • delay the implementation of or revise certain aspects of the Company’s business strategy; • reduce or delay purchases of wall displays or advertising or promotional expenses; • reduce or delay capital spending; • restructure Products Corporation’s indebtedness; • sell assets or operations; • delay, reduce or revise the Company’s restructuring plans; • seek additional capital contributions or loans from MacAndrews & Forbes, the Company’s other affiliates and/or third parties; • sell additional Revlon, Inc. equity or debt securities or debt securities of Products Corporation; or • reduce other discretionary spending. If the Company is required to take any of these actions, it could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and/or results of operations. In addition, the Company may be unable to take any of these actions, because of a variety of commercial or market factors or constraints in Products Corporation’s debt instruments, including, for example, market conditions being unfavorable for an equity or debt issuance, additional capital contributions or loans not being available from affiliates and/or 18 Table of Contents third parties, or that the transactions may not be permitted under the terms of the various debt instruments then in effect, such as due to restrictions on the incurrence of debt, incurrence of liens, asset dispositions and/or related party transactions. Such actions, if ever taken, may not enable the Company to satisfy its cash requirements or enable Products Corporation to comply with the financial covenants under the 2006 Credit Agreements if the actions do not result in sufficient savings or generate a sufficient amount of additional capital, as the case may be. See also, ‘‘— Restrictions and covenants in Products Corporation’s debt agreements limit its ability to take certain actions and impose consequences in the event of failure to comply’’ which discusses, among other things, the consequences of noncompliance with Products Corporation’s credit agreement covenants. The Company depends on a limited number of customers for a large portion of its net sales and the loss of one or more of these customers could reduce the Company’s net sales and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. For 2007, 2006 and 2005, Wal-Mart, Inc. accounted for approximately 24%, 23% and 24%, respectively, of the Company’s worldwide net sales. The Company expects that for 2008 and future periods, Wal-Mart and a small number of other customers will, in the aggregate, continue to account for a large portion of the Company’s net sales. These customers have demanded, and may continue to demand, increased service and other accomodations. The Company may be affected by changes in the policies and demands of its retail customers relating to service levels, inventory de-stocking or limitations on access to wall display space. As is customary in the consumer products industry, none of the Company’s customers is under an obligation to continue purchasing products from the Company in the future. The loss of Wal-Mart or one or more of the Company’s other customers that may account for a significant portion of the Company’s net sales, or any significant decrease in sales to these customers or any significant decrease in the Company’s retail display space in any of these customers’ stores, could reduce the Company’s net sales and therefore could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The Company may be unable to increase its sales through the Company’s primary distribution channels, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. In the U.S., mass volume retailers and chain drug and food stores currently are the primary distribution channels for the Company’s products. Additionally, other channels, including prestige and department stores, television shopping, door-to-door, specialty stores, the internet, perfumeries and other distribution outlets, combined account for a significant amount of sales of cosmetics and beauty care products. A decrease in consumer demand in the U.S. mass retail channel for color cosmetics, retailer inventory management, a reduction in retailer display space and/or a change in consumers’ purchasing habits, such as by buying more cosmetics and beauty care products in channels in which the Company does not currently compete, could impact the sales of its products through these distribution channels, which could reduce the Company’s net sales and therefore have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Competition in the cosmetics and beauty care products business could materially adversely affect the Company’s net sales and its share of the mass retail channel and could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The cosmetics and beauty care products business is highly competitive. The Company competes primarily on the basis of: • developing quality products with innovative performance features, shades, finishes and packaging; • educating consumers on the Company’s product benefits; • anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner, including the timing of new product introductions and line extensions; • offering attractively priced products, relative to the product benefits provided; 19 Table of Contents • maintaining favorable brand recognition; • generating competitive margins and inventory turns for the Company’s retail customers by providing relevant products and executing effective pricing, incentive and promotion programs; • ensuring product availability through effective planning and replenishment collaboration with retailers; • providing strong and effective advertising, marketing, promotion and merchandising support; • maintaining an effective sales force; and • obtaining and retaining sufficient retail display space, optimal in-store positioning and effective presentation of the Company’s products at retail. An increase in the amount of competition that the Company faces could have a material adverse effect on its share of the mass retail channel and revenues. The Company experienced significant declines in its share in color cosmetics in the U.S. mass retail channel from approximately 32% in the second quarter of 1998 to approximately 22% in the second quarter of 2002. In 2007, the Company achieved a combined U.S. color cosmetics share in the mass retail channel of 19.2% (with the Revlon brand registering a U.S. mass retail channel share of 13.0% for 2007, compared to 14.0% for 2006, and the Almay brand registering a U.S. mass retail channel share of 6.0% for 2007, compared to 6.2% for 2006). It is possible that declines in the Company’s share of the mass retail channel could occur in the future. In addition, the Company competes against a number of multi-national manufacturers, some of which are larger and have substantially greater resources than the Company, and which may therefore have the ability to spend more aggressively on advertising and marketing and have more flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions than the Company. In addition to products sold in the mass retail channel, the Company’s products also compete with similar products sold through other channels, including prestige and department stores, television shopping, door-to-door, specialty stores, the internet, perfumeries and other distirbution outlets. Additionally, the Company’s major retail customers periodically assess the allocation of retail display space among competitors and in the course of doing so could elect to reduce the display space allocated to the Company’s products, if, for example, the Company’s marketing strategies for its new and/or existing products are less effective than planned, fail to effectively reach the targeted consumer base or engender the desired consumption; and/or the rate of purchases by the Company’s consumers are not as high as the Company anticipates. Any significant loss of display space could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s foreign operations are subject to a variety of social, political and economic risks and may be affected by foreign currency fluctuation, which could adversely affect the results of the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations and the value of its foreign assets. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had operations based in 15 foreign countries and its products were sold throughout the world. The Company is exposed to the risk of changes in social, political and economic conditions inherent in operating in foreign countries, including those in Asia, Eastern Europe, Latin America and South Africa, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Such changes include changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in countries where the Company has operations, changes in consumer purchasing habits including as to shopping channels, as well as, to a lesser extent, changes in U.S. laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment. In addition, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may affect the results of the Company’s operations and the value of its foreign assets, which in turn may adversely affect the Company’s reported net sales and earnings and, accordingly, the comparability of period-to-period results of operations. Changes in currency exchange rates may affect the relative prices at which the Company and its foreign competitors sell products in the same markets. 20 Table of Contents The Company’s net sales outside of the U.S. for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were approximately 43%, 43% and 41% of the Company’s total consolidated net sales, respectively. In addition, changes in the value of relevant currencies may affect the cost of certain items and materials required in the Company’s operations. Products Corporation enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge certain cash flows denominated in foreign currency. At December 31, 2007, the notional amount of Products Corporation’s foreign currency forward exchange contracts was $23.6 million. The foreign currency forward exchange contracts that Products Corporation enters into may not adequately protect against currency fluctuations. Terrorist attacks, acts of war or military actions may adversely affect the markets in which the Company operates and the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. On September 11, 2001, the U.S. was the target of terrorist attacks of unprecedented scope. These attacks contributed to major instability in the U.S. and other financial markets and reduced consumer confidence. These terrorist attacks, as well as terrorist attacks such as those that have occurred in Madrid, Spain and London, England, military responses to terrorist attacks and future developments, or other military actions, such as the military actions in Iraq, may adversely affect prevailing economic conditions, resulting in reduced consumer spending and reduced demand for the Company’s products. These developments subject the Company’s worldwide operations to increased risks and, depending on their magnitude, could reduce net sales and therefore could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s products are subject to federal, state and international regulations that could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The Company is subject to regulation by the FTC and the FDA, in the U.S., as well as various other federal, state, local and foreign regulatory authorities, including the EU in Europe. The Company’s Oxford, North Carolina manufacturing facility is registered with the FDA as a drug manufacturing establishment, permitting the manufacture of cosmetics that contain over-the-counter drug ingredients, such as sunscreens and anti-perspirants. State and local regulations in the U.S. and regulations in the EU that are designed to protect consumers or the environment have an increasing influence on the Company’s product claims, ingredients and packaging. To the extent regulatory changes occur in the future, they could require the Company to reformulate or discontinue certain of its products or revise its product packaging or labeling, either of which could result in, among other things, increased costs to the Company, delays in product launches or result in pr oduct returns and therefore could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Shares of Revlon, Inc. Class A Common Stock and Products Corporation’s capital stock are pledged to secure various of Revlon, Inc.’s and/or other of the Company’s affiliates’ obligations and foreclosure upon these shares or dispositions of shares could result in the acceleration of debt under the 2006 Credit Agreements and could have other consequences. All of Products Corporation’s shares of common stock are pledged to secure Revlon, Inc.’s guarantee under the 2006 Credit Agreements. MacAndrews & Forbes has advised the Company that it has pledged shares of Revlon, Inc.’s Class A Common Stock to secure certain obligations of MacAndrews & Forbes. Additional shares of Revlon, Inc. and shares of common stock of intermediate holding companies between Revlon, Inc. and MacAndrews & Forbes may from time to time be pledged to secure obligations of MacAndrews & Forbes. A default under any of these obligations that are secured by the pledged shares could cause a foreclosure with respect to such shares of Revlon, Inc.’s Class A Common Stock, Products Corporation’s common stock or stock of intermediate holding companies. A foreclosure upon any such shares of common stock or dispositions of shares of Revlon, Inc.’s Class A Common Stock, Products Corporation’s common stock or stock of intermediate holding companies beneficially owned by MacAndrews & Forbes could, in a sufficient amount, constitute a ‘‘change of control’’ under the 2006 Credit Agreements, the MacAndrews & Forbes Senior Subordinated Term Loan Agreement and the indenture governing the 9½% Senior Notes. A change of control constitutes an event of default under the 2006 Credit Agreements, which would permit Products Corporation’s lenders to 21 Table of Contents accelerate amounts outstanding under the 2006 Credit Facilities. In addition, holders of the 9½% Senior Notes may require Products Corporation to repurchase their respective notes under those circumstances. Upon a change of control, Products Corporation would also be required, after fulfiling its repayment obligations under the 9½% Senior Notes indenture, to repay in full the MacAndrews & Forbes Senior Subordinated Term Loan. Products Corporation may not have sufficient funds at the time of any such change of control to repay in full the borrowings under the 2006 Credit Facilities or to repurchase or redeem the 9½% Senior Notes and/or repay the MacAndrews & Forbes Senior Subordinated Term Loan. (See ‘‘The Company’s ability to service its debt and meet its cash requirements depends on many factors, including achieving anticipated levels of revenue and expenses. If such revenue or expense levels prove to be other than as anticipated, the Company may be unable to meet its cash requirements or Products Corporation may be unable to meet the requirements of the financial covenants under the 2006 Credit Agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations’’). MacAndrews & Forbes has the power to direct and control the Company’s business. MacAndrews & Forbes is wholly-owned by Ronald O. Perelman. Mr. Perelman, directly and through MacAndrews & Forbes, beneficially owned, at December 31, 2007, approximately 60% of Revlon, Inc.’s outstanding Common Stock and controlled approximately 74% of the combined voting power of the outstanding shares of Revlon, Inc.’s Class A and Class B Common Stock. As a result, MacAndrews & Forbes is able to control the election of the entire Board of Directors of Revlon, Inc. and Products Corporation (as it is a wholly owned subsidiary of Revlon, Inc.) and controls the vote on all matters submitted to a vote of Revlon, Inc.’s and Products Corporation’s stockholders, including the approval of mergers, consolidations, sales of some, all or substantially all of Revlon, Inc.’s or Products Corporation’s assets, issuances of capital stock and similar transactions. Delaware law, provisions of the Company’s governing documents and the fact that the Company is a controlled company could make a third-party acquisition of the Company difficult. The Company is a Delaware corporation. The Delaware General Corporation Law contains provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company. MacAndrews & Forbes controls the vote on all matters submitted to a vote of the Company’s stockholders, including the election of the Company’s entire Board of Directors and approval of mergers, consolidations, sales of some, all or substantially all of the Company’s assets, issuances of capital stock and similar transactions. The Company’s certificate of incorporation makes available additional authorized shares of Class A Common Stock for issuance from time to time at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors without further action by the Company’s stockholders, except where stockholder approval is required by law or NYSE requirements. The Company’s certificate of incorporation also authorizes ‘‘blank check’’ preferred stock, whereby the Company’s Board of Directors has the authority to issue shares of preferred stock from time to time in one or more series and to fix the voting rights, if any, designations, powers, preferences and the relative participation, optional or other rights, if any, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of any unissued series of preferred stock, to fix the number of shares constituting such series, and to increase or decrease the number of shares of any such series (but n ot below the number of shares of such series then outstanding). This flexibility to authorize and issue additional shares may be utilized for a variety of corporate purposes, including future public offerings to raise additional capital and corporate acquisitions. These provisions, however, or MacAndrews & Forbes’ control of the Company, may be construed as having an anti-takeover effect to the extent they would discourage or render more difficult an attempt to obtain control of the Company by means of a proxy contest, tender offer, merger or otherwise, which could affect the market price for the shares held by the Company’s stockholders. 22 Table of Contents Future sales or issuances of Class A Common Stock or the Company’s issuance of other equity securities may depress the Company’s stock price or dilute existing stockholders. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of Class A Common Stock, or the availability of Class A Common Stock for future sales, will have on the market price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock. Sales in the public market of substantial amounts of Class A Common Stock, including shares held by MacAndrews & Forbes, or investor perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for the Company’s Class A Common Stock. In addition, as stated above, the Company’s certificate of incorporation makes available additional authorized shares of Class A Common Stock for issuance from time to time at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors without further action by the Company’s stockholders, except where stockholder approval is required by law or NYSE requirements. The Company may also issue shares of ‘‘blank check’’ preferred stock or securities convertible into either common stock or preferred stock. Any future issuance of additional authorized shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock, preferred stock or securities convertible into shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock or preferred stock may dilute the Company’s existing stockholders’ equity interest in the Company. With respect to the Company’s Class A Common Stock, such future issuances could, among other things, dilute the earnings per s hare of the Company’s Class A Common Stock and the equity and voting rights of those stockholders holding the Company’s Class A Common Stock at the time of such future issuances. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 