Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following discussion of risk factors contains "forward-looking statements" as discussed in Item 1. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Management's Discussion and Analysis, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A Failure to Maintain or Increase our Dividend Could Reduce the Market Price of Our Stock. In January 2008, we declared a $0.13 per share monthly dividend for the first quarter of calendar 2008. During calendar 2007, we paid a $0.125 monthly dividend on our common stock. During calendar 2006, we paid a $0.12 monthly dividend on our common stock. The ability to maintain or raise our common dividend is dependent, to a large part, on growth of funds from operations. This growth in turn depends upon increased revenues from additional investments and loans, rental increases and mortgage rate increases. At Times, We May Have Limited Access to Capital Which Will Slow Our Growth. A REIT is required to make dividend distributions and retains little cash flow for growth. As a result, growth for a REIT is generally through the steady investment of new capital in real estate assets. Currently, we believe that our low debt levels, $90.0 million available under our unsecured revolving credit line and $42.6 million cash balance at December 31, 2007, will enable us to meet our obligations and continue to make investments. Recently, liquidity in the credit markets has deteriorated, however, we believe capital is available to us. There may be times when we will have limited access to capital from the equity and/or debt markets. During such periods, virtually all of our available capital would be required to meet existing commitments and to reduce existing debt. We may not be able, during such periods, to obtain additional equity or debt capital or dispose of assets on favorable terms, if at all, at the time we require additional capital to acquire health care properties on a competitive basis or meet our obligations. 15 Income and Returns from Health Care Facilities Can be Volatile. The possibility that the health care properties in which we invest will not generate income sufficient to meet operating expenses, will generate income and capital appreciation, if any, at rates lower than those anticipated or will yield returns lower than those available through investments in comparable real estate or other investments are additional risks of investing in health care related real estate. Income from properties and yields from investments in such properties may be affected by many factors, including changes in governmental regulation (such as zoning laws and government payment), general or local economic conditions (such as fluctuations in interest rates and employment conditions), the available local supply of and demand for improved real estate, a reduction in rental income as the result of an inability to maintain occupancy levels, natural disasters (such as hurricanes, earthquakes and floods) or similar factors. We Depend on Lease Income and Mortgage Payments from Real Property. Since 94% of our income is derived from mortgage payments and lease income from real property, our income would be adversely affected if a significant number of our borrowers or lessees were unable to meet their obligations to us or if we were unable to lease our properties or make mortgage loans on economically favorable terms. There can be no assurance that any lessee will exercise its option to renew its lease upon the expiration of the initial term or that if such failure to renew were to occur, we could lease the property to others on favorable terms. We Rely on a Few Major Operators. Extendicare REIT and Assisted Living Concepts, Inc (or ALC), collectively lease 37 assisted living properties with a total of 1,427 units owned by us representing approximately 11.7%, or $63.9 million, of our total assets at December 31, 2007. Alterra Healthcare Corporation (or Alterra), a wholly owned subsidiary of Brookdale Senior Living, Inc., leases 35 assisted living properties with a total of 1,416 units owned by us representing approximately 11.6%, or $63.3 million, of our total assets at December 31, 2007. Preferred Care, Inc. (or Preferred Care), through various wholly owned subsidiaries, operates 35 skilled nursing properties with a total of 4,409 beds that we own or on which we hold mortgages secured by first trust deeds. This represents approximately 13.1% or $71.1 million of our total assets at December 31, 2007. Our financial position and ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by financial difficulties experienced by any of our other lessees and borrowers, including bankruptcies, inability to emerge from bankruptcy, insolvency or general downturn in business of any such operator, or in the event any such operator does not renew and/or extend its relationship with us or our borrowers when it expires. Our Borrowers and Lessees Face Competition in the Health Care Industry. The long-term care industry is highly competitive and we expect that it may become more competitive in the future. Our borrowers and lessees are competing with numerous other companies providing similar long-term care services or alternatives such as home health agencies, hospices, life care at home, community-based service programs, retirement communities and convalescent centers. There can be no assurance that our borrowers and lessees will not encounter increased competition in the future which could limit their ability to attract residents or expand their businesses and therefore affect their ability to make their debt or lease payments to us. The Health Care Industry is Heavily Regulated by the Government. Our borrowers and lessees who operate health care facilities are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governments. These laws and regulations are subject to frequent and substantial changes resulting from legislation, adoption of rules and regulations, and administrative and judicial interpretations of existing law. These changes may have a dramatic effect on the definition of permissible or impermissible activities, the relative costs associated with doing business and the amount of reimbursement by both government and 16 other third-party payors. These changes may be applied retroactively. The ultimate timing or effect of these changes cannot be predicted. The failure of any borrower of funds from us or lessee of any of our properties to comply with such laws, requirements and regulations could affect its ability to operate its facility or facilities and could adversely affect such borrower's or lessee's ability to make debt or lease payments to us. Also see "Government Regulation" beginning on page 5. Congress and the States Have Enacted Health Care Reform Measures. The health care industry continues to face various challenges, including increased government and private payor pressure on health care providers to control costs. For instance, the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 enacted significant changes to the Medicare and Medicaid programs designed to modernize payment and health care delivery systems while achieving substantial budgetary savings. In seeking to limit Medicare reimbursement for long-term care services, Congress established the prospective payment system for skilled nursing facility services to replace the cost-based reimbursement system. Skilled nursing facilities needed to restructure their operations to accommodate the Medicare prospective payment system reimbursement. Since the skilled nursing facility prospective payment system was enacted, several then publicly held operators of long-term care facilities and at least two then publicly held operators of assisted living facilities filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy laws. During their reorganizations and in some instances subsequent thereto, long-term care operators and assisted living operators reduced their operations by rejecting leases and/or defaulting on loans resulting in properties being returned to lessors or lenders. There can be no assurances given that there will not be additional bankruptcies of skilled nursing and assisted living operators in the future. In recent years, Congress has adopted legislation to somewhat mitigate the impact of the Balanced Budget Act on providers, including skilled nursing facilities. For instance, on December 8, 2003, President Bush signed into law the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (P.L. 108-173). In addition to providing expanded Medicare prescription drug coverage, the law modifies Medicare payments to a variety of health care providers. With respect to skilled nursing facilities, the act provides a temporary 128% increase in the Medicare payment for skilled nursing facility residents with acquired immune deficiency syndrome, applicable to services furnished on or after October 1, 2004. This temporary increase is still in effect as of December 31, 2007. On the other hand, in February 2006 Congress gave final approval to the Deficit Reduction Act (or DRA), which will reduce net Medicare and Medicaid spending by approximately $11.0 billion over five years. Among other things, the legislation reduces Medicare skilled nursing facility bad debt payments by 30 percent for those individuals who are not dually eligible for Medicare and Medicaid, and strengthens Medicaid asset transfer restrictions for persons seeking to qualify for Medicaid long-term care coverage. More recently, on December 20, 2006, President Bush signed into law the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 (P.L 109-432), which also modifies a number of Medicare and Medicaid policies. Among other things, the law reduces the limit on Medicaid provider taxes from 6% (set forth in regulations) to 5.5% from January 1, 2008 through September 30, 2011. The Bush Administration had been expected to issue regulations calling for deeper cuts in funding, which is used by many states to finance state health programs. President Bush's proposed 2009 fiscal year budget also would reduce Medicare and Medicaid payments to providers, including skilled nursing facilities. Congress may consider legislation in the future that would further restrict Medicare and Medicaid funding. No assurances can be given that any additional Medicare or Medicaid legislation enacted by Congress would not reduce Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement to skilled nursing facilities or result in additional costs for operators of skilled nursing facilities. In addition, comprehensive reforms affecting the payment for and availability of health care services have been proposed at the federal and state levels and major reform proposals have been 17 adopted by certain states. Congress and state legislatures can be expected to continue to review and assess alternative health care delivery systems and payment methodologies. Changes in the law, new interpretations of existing laws, or changes in payment methodology may have a dramatic effect on the definition of permissible or impermissible activities, the relative costs associated with doing business and the amount of reimbursement by the government and other third party payors. The DRA also gives states greater flexibility to expand access to home and community based services by allowing states to provide these services as an optional benefit without undergoing the waiver approval process. Moreover, the DRA includes a new demonstration to encourage states to provide long-term care services in a community setting to individuals who currently receive Medicaid services in nursing homes. Together the provisions could further increase state funding for home and community based services, while prompting states to cut funding for nursing facilities and homes for persons with disabilities. In light of continuing state Medicaid program reforms, budget cuts, and regulatory initiatives, no assurance can be given that the implementation of such regulations and reforms will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our lessees and/or borrowers which, in turn, could effect their ability to meet their contractual obligations to us. Also see "Government Regulation" beginning on page 5. Our Borrowers and Lessees Rely on Government and Third Party Reimbursement. The ability of our borrowers and lessees to generate revenue and profit determines the underlying value of that property to us. Revenues of our borrowers and lessees are generally derived from payments for patient care. Sources of such payments include the federal Medicare program, state Medicaid programs, private insurance carriers, health care service plans, health maintenance organizations, preferred provider arrangements, self-insured employers, as well as the patients themselves. Also see "Government Regulation" beginning on page 5. We Could Incur More Debt. We operate with a policy of incurring debt when, in the opinion of our Board of Directors, it is advisable. We may incur additional debt by issuing debt securities in a public offering or in a private transaction. Accordingly, we could become more highly leveraged. The degree of leverage could have important consequences to stockholders, including affecting our ability to obtain, in the future, additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes and making us more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy generally. We Could Fail to Collect Amounts Due Under Our Straight-line Rent Receivable Asset. Straight-line accounting requires us to calculate the total rent we will receive as a fixed amount over the life of the lease and recognize that revenue evenly over that life. In a situation where a lease calls for fixed rental increases during the life of the lease rental income recorded in the early years of a lease is higher than the actual cash rent received, which creates an asset on the balance sheet called deferred rent receivable. At some point during the lease, depending on the rent levels and terms, this reverses and the cash rent payments received during the later years of the lease are higher than the rental income recognized, which reduces the deferred rent receivable balance to zero by the end of the lease. We periodically assess the collectibility of the deferred rent receivable. If during our assessment we determined that we were unlikely to collect a portion or all of the deferred rent receivable balance, we will record an impairment charge in current period earnings for the portion, up to its full value, that we estimate will not be recovered. Our Assets May be Subject to Impairment Charges. We periodically but not less than quarterly evaluate our real estate investments and other assets for impairment indicators. The judgment regarding the existence of impairment indicators is based on factors such as market conditions, operator performance and legal structure. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we would be required to make an adjustment to the net carrying value of the asset, which could have a 18 material adverse affect on our results of operations and a non-cash impact on funds from operations in the period in which the write-off occurs. A Failure to Reinvest Cash Available to Us Could Adversely Affect Our Future Revenues and Our Ability to Increase Dividends to Stockholders; There is Considerable Competition in Our Market for Attractive Investments. From time to time, we will have cash available from (1) proceeds of sales of shares of securities, (2) proceeds from new debt issuances, (3) principal payments on our mortgages and other investments, (4) sale of properties, and (5) funds from operations. We may reinvest this cash in health care investments in accordance with our investment policies, repay outstanding debt or invest in qualified short-term or long-term investments. We compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors. The competition for attractive investments negatively affects our ability to make timely investments on acceptable terms. Delays in acquiring properties or making loans will negatively impact revenues and perhaps our ability to increase distributions to our stockholders. Our Failure to Qualify as a REIT Would Have Serious Adverse Consequences to Our Stockholders. We intend to operate so as to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code (the Code). We believe that we have been organized and have operated in a manner which would allow us to qualify as a REIT under the Code beginning with our taxable year ended December 31, 1992. However, it is possible that we have been organized or have operated in a manner which would not allow us to qualify as a REIT, or that our future operations could cause us to fail to qualify. Qualification as a REIT requires us to satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual and quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, and we must pay dividends to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% (95% for taxable years ending prior to January 1, 2001) of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital gains). Legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. However, we are not aware of any pending tax legislation that would adversely affect our ability to operate as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. Unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we lost qualification. If we lose our REIT status, our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders would be significantly reduced for each of the years involved. In addition, we would no longer be required to make distributions to stockholders. Our real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and, therefore, tend to limit our ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. All of our properties are "special purpose" properties that cannot be readily converted to general residential, retail or office use. Health care facilities that participate in Medicare or Medicaid must meet extensive program requirements, including physical plant and operational requirements, which are revised from time to time. Such requirements may include a duty to admit Medicare and Medicaid patients, limiting the ability of the facility to increase its private pay census beyond certain limits. Medicare and Medicaid facilities are regularly inspected to determine compliance, and may be excluded from the programs—in some cases without a prior hearing—for failure to meet program requirements. Transfers of operations of nursing homes and other healthcare-related facilities are subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real estate. Thus, if the operation of any of our properties becomes unprofitable due to competition, age of improvements or other factors such that our lessee or 19 mortgagor becomes unable to meet its obligations on the lease or mortgage loan, the liquidation value of the property may be substantially less, particularly relative to the amount owing on any related mortgage loan, than would be the case if the property were readily adaptable to other uses. The receipt of liquidation proceeds or the replacement of an operator that has defaulted on its lease or loan could be delayed by the approval process of any federal, state or local agency necessary for the transfer of the property or the replacement of the operator with a new operator licensed to manage the facility. In addition, certain significant expenditures associated with real estate investment, such as real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investment. Should such events occur, our income and cash flows from operations would be adversely affected. Our Remedies May Be Limited When Mortgage Loans Default. To the extent we invest in mortgage loans, such mortgage loans may or may not be recourse obligations of the borrower and generally will not be insured or guaranteed by governmental agencies or otherwise. In the event of a default under such obligations, we may have to foreclose on the property underlying the mortgage or protect our interest by acquiring title to a property and thereafter make substantial improvements or repairs in order to maximize the property's investment potential. Borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against such enforcement and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce mortgage obligations. If a borrower seeks bankruptcy protection, the Bankruptcy Court may impose an automatic stay that would preclude us from enforcing foreclosure or other remedies against the borrower. Relatively high "loan to value" ratios and declines in the value of the property may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our mortgage loan upon foreclosure. We are Subject to Risks and Liabilities in Connection with Properties Owned Through Limited Liability Companies and Partnerships. We have ownership interests in limited liability companies and/or partnerships. We may make additional investments through these ventures in the future. Partnership or limited liability company investments may involve risks such as the following: •our partners or co-members might become bankrupt (in which event we and any other remaining general partners or members would generally remain liable for the liabilities of the partnership or limited liability company); •our partners or co-members might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals; •our partners or co-members may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives, including our policy with respect to maintaining our qualification as a REIT; and •agreements governing limited liability companies and partnerships often contain restrictions on the transfer of a member's or partner's interest or "buy-sell" or other provisions which may result in a purchase or sale of the interest at a disadvantageous time or on disadvantageous terms. We will, however, generally seek to maintain sufficient control of our partnerships and limited liability companies to permit us to achieve our business objectives. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that we may invest in partnerships or limited liability companies. The occurrence of one or more of the events described above could have a direct and adverse impact on us. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 