Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information in this Form 10-K, including the risk factors listed below. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not now known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any circumstances discussed in these risks actually occur or occur again, our business could be materially harmed. If our business is harmed, the trading price of our common stock could decline. This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We undertake no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this Form 10-K. Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuations, and you should not rely on them as an indication of our future performance. Our operating results could fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. Our operating results for a particular quarter are difficult to predict. Our revenue and operating results could fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter and from year to year. This could result from any one or a combination of factors such as: • the cancellation or postponement of orders; • the timing and amount of significant orders; • our success in developing, introducing and shipping product enhancements and new products; • the mix of products we sell; • software, hardware or other errors in the products we sell requiring replacements or increased warranty reserves; • our annual reviews of goodwill and other intangibles that lead to impairment charges; • new product introductions by our competitors; • the timing of delivery and availability of components from suppliers; • readiness of customer sites for installation; • political stability in the areas of the world in which we operate in; • changes in material costs; • currency fluctuations; • changes in accounting rules; and • general economic conditions as well as changes in such conditions specific to our market segments. 13 Table of Contents Moreover, the volume and timing of orders we receive during a quarter are difficult to forecast. From time to time, our customers encounter uncertain and changing demand for their products. Customers generally order based on their forecasts. If demand falls below these forecasts or if customers do not control inventories effectively, they may cancel or reschedule shipments previously ordered from us. Our expense levels during any particular period are based, in part, on expectations of future sales. If sales in a particular quarter do not meet expectations, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. Because of these and other factors, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. It is possible that, in future periods, our results of operations will be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. This failure to meet expectations could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Similarly, the failure by our competitors or customers to meet or exceed the results expected by their analysts or investors could have a ripple effect on us and cause our stock price to decline. Our gross margins may fluctuate from period to period and our gross margins for optical components and/or networking equipment may be adversely affected by a number of factors. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, gross margins from our three principal operating segments and for our company as a whole: Years ended December 31: 2007 2006 2005 Network equipment group 50 % 52 % 53 % Network integration group 23 % 25 % 25 % Optical components group 19 % 19 % 11 % Total 29 % 31 % 32 % Our gross margins also fluctuate from quarter to quarter within a year. Yearly and quarterly fluctuations in our margins have been affected, often adversely, and may continue to be affected, by numerous factors, including: • increased price competition, including competition from low-cost producers in Asia; • price reductions that we make, such as marketing decisions that we have made in the past to reduce the price for our optical components to certain customers in an effort to secure long-term leadership in the market for FTTP components; • decreases in average selling prices of our products which, in addition to competitive factors and pressures from, or accommodations made to, significant customers, result from factors such as overcapacity and market conditions, the introduction of new and more technologically advanced products in the case of optical components and excess inventories, increased sales discounts and new product introductions; • the mix in any period or year of higher and lower margin products and services; • sales volume during a particular period or year; • charges for excess or obsolete inventory; • changes in the prices or the availability of components needed to manufacture our products; 14 Table of Contents • the relative success of our efforts to reduce product manufacturing costs, such as the transition of our optical component manufacturing to our Taiwan facility, to low-cost third party manufacturers in China, or in the future, to our planned consolidated optical components manufacturing facility in Chengdu, China; • our introduction of new products, with initial sales at relatively small volumes with resulting higher production costs; and • increased warranty or repair costs. We expect gross margins generally and for specific products to continue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year. Competition in the network infrastructure and optical components markets is ever increasing, which could reduce our revenue and gross margins or cause us to lose market share. The communications equipment and optical component industries are intensely competitive. We compete directly with a number of established and emerging networking and optical components companies. Our direct competitors in networking products, switches and routers generally include: ADVA Optical Networks, Alcatel-Lucent, Allied Telesyn, Avocent, Ciena, Cisco Systems, Extreme Networks, Foundry Networks, Nortel Networks and Raritan. Our competitors in fiber optic components include: Delta Electronics, Inc., EMCORE Corporation, ExceLight Communications, Inc., Finisar Corporation, JDS Uniphase Corporation, Ligent Photonics, Inc., NEC Corporation, NeoPhotonics Corporation, Nokia Siemens, Oplink Communications, Inc., Opnext Inc., Optium Corporation and Wuhan Telecommunication Devices Co., Ltd. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources and larger installed customer bases than we do. Many of our larger competitors offer customers a broader product line, which provides a more comprehensive networking solution than we provide. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources and larger installed customer bases than we have. Several of our competitors in our markets have recently introduced or announced their intentions to introduce new competitive products. Many of our larger competitors in the networking infrastructure market offer customers broader product lines, which provide a more comprehensive networking solution than we provide. As a result, many of our competitors are able to devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. In addition, several of our competitors have large market capitalizations, substantially larger cash reserves, and are much better positioned than we are to acquire other companies in order to gain new technologies or products that may displace our product lines. Any of these acquisitions could give our competitors a strategic advantage. Accordingly, in certain regional markets we have collaborated with other vendors in an effort to enhance our overall capability in providing products and services. Many of our competitors have significantly more established sales and customer support organizations than we do. In addition, many of our competitors have much greater name recognition, more extensive customer bases, better-developed distribution channels and broader product offerings than we have. These companies can leverage their customer bases and broader product offerings and adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share. Additional competitors may enter the market, and we are likely to compete with new companies in the future. Companies competing with us may introduce products that are more competitively priced, have increased performance or functionality, or incorporate technological advances that we have not yet developed or implemented, and may be able to react more quickly to changing customer requirements and expectations. There is also the risk that other network system vendors may enter or re-enter the subsystem market and begin to manufacture in-house the optical and networking subsystems 15 Table of Contents incorporated into their network systems. We also expect to encounter potential customers that, because of existing relationships with our competitors, are committed to the products offered by these competitors. As a result of the foregoing factors, we expect that competitive pressures may result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share in our markets. Our markets are subject to rapid technological change, and to compete effectively, we must continually introduce new products that achieve market acceptance. The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. We expect that new technologies will emerge as competition and the need for higher and more cost effective transmission capacity, or bandwidth, increases. Our future performance will depend on the successful development, introduction and market acceptance of new and enhanced products that address these changes as well as current and potential customer requirements. The introduction of new and enhanced products may cause our customers to defer or cancel orders for existing products. We have in the past experienced delays in product development and these delays may occur in the future. Therefore, to the extent that customers defer or cancel orders in the expectation of a new product release or there is any delay in development or introduction of our new products or enhancements of our products, our operating results would suffer. We also may not be able to develop the underlying core technologies necessary to create new products and enhancements, or to license these technologies from third parties. Product development delays may result from numerous factors, including: • changing product specifications and customer requirements; • difficulties in hiring and retaining necessary technical personnel; • difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations; • difficulties with contract manufacturers; • changing market or competitive product requirements; and • unanticipated engineering complexities. The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and highly skilled engineering and development personnel, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. In order to compete, we must be able to deliver to customers products that are highly reliable, operate with its existing equipment, lower the customer’s costs of acquisition, installation and maintenance and provide an overall cost-effective solution. We may not be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products successfully, if at all, or on a timely basis. Further, our new products may not gain market acceptance or we may not be able to respond effectively to product announcements by competitors, technological changes or emerging industry standards. Our failure to respond effectively to technological changes would significantly harm our business. Our products are deployed in large and complex systems and may contain defects that are not detected until after our products have been installed, which may cause us to incur significant costs, divert our attention from product development efforts or damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers. Our products are complex and undergo internal quality testing and qualification as well as formal qualification by our customers. However, defects may be found from time to time. Our customers’ testing procedures are limited to evaluating our products under likely and foreseeable failure scenarios and over varying amounts of time. For various reasons, including among others, the occurrence of performance problems that are unforeseeable in testing or that are detected only when products age or are operated under peak stress conditions, our products may fail to perform as expected long after customer 16 Table of Contents acceptance. Failures could result from faulty components or design, problems in manufacturing or other unforeseen reasons. As a result, we could incur significant costs to repair and/or replace defective products under warranty, particularly when such failures occur in installed systems. We have experienced such failures in the past and will continue to face this risk going forward, as our products are widely deployed throughout the world in multiple demanding environments and applications. In addition, we may in certain circumstances honor warranty claims after the warranty period has expired or for problems not covered by warranty in order to maintain customer relationships. Although we have limited by contract the types of damages customers may seek in conjunction with a warranty claim, Fiberxon did not do so and as a result we currently bear increased exposure to damages upon claims related to historical Fiberxon products. We believe that our warranty reserves adequately address our potential exposure to liability for warranty claims. Our warranty reserves are based on historical return rates, our average material costs incurred to repair items, including labor costs, and, with respect to Fiberxon, the lack of contractual limitations on such claims in some instances. The warranty reserves are evaluated and adjusted based on updated experience. In addition, our optical component products and certain of our data networking products are typically embedded in, or deployed in conjunction with, our customers’ products, which incorporate a variety of components and may be expected to interoperate with modules produced by third parties. As a result, not all defects are immediately detectable and when problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These problems may cause us to incur significant damages or warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts, cause significant customer relation problems or loss of customers and harm our reputation and brand, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business. The long and uncertain sales cycles for our products may cause revenues and operating results to vary from quarter to quarter, which could cause volatility in our stock price. The timing of our sales is difficult to predict because of the length and variability of the sales and implementation cycles for our products. We do not recognize revenue until a product has been shipped to a customer, all significant vendor obligations have been performed and collection is considered probable. Customers often view the purchase of our products as a significant and strategic decision. As a result, customers typically expend significant effort in evaluating, testing and qualifying our products and our manufacturing process. This customer evaluation and qualification process frequently results in a lengthy initial sales cycle of up to one year or more. In addition, some of our customers require that our products be subjected to life-time and reliability testing, which can take up to nine months or more. While our customers are evaluating our products and before they place an order with us, we may incur substantial sales and marketing and research and product development expenses to customize our products to the customer’s needs. We may also expend significant management effort, increase manufacturing capacity and order long lead-time components or materials prior to receiving an order. Even after this evaluation process, a potential customer may not purchase our products. Moreover, after acceptance of orders, our customers often change the scheduled delivery dates of their orders. Because of the evolving nature of the optical networking and networking infrastructure markets, we cannot predict the length of these sales, or the development or delivery cycles. As a result, fluctuations in our sales cycles may cause our revenue and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter-to-quarter, which could cause volatility in our stock price. Our customers may adopt alternate technologies for which we do not produce products or for which our products are not adaptable. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and new product introductions, which may minimize the demand for our existing products or render them obsolete. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance existing products and to develop and introduce new products that address such changes in technology and standards and respond to our customers’ potential desire to adopt such technologies in place of those supported by our current product offerings. The development of new or enhanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends as well as precise technological execution. Further, the development cycle for products integrating new 17 Table of Contents technologies or technologies with which we are not as familiar may be longer and more costly than our current product development process. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these new products, and the new products may not be successfully commercialized. These costs and delays may prevent us from being able to establish a market position with respect to such new technologies and industry standards or be as responsive as we would like to be in meeting our customers’ demands for such products, thus adversely affecting our results of operations and our customer relationships. If our customers do not qualify our products or if their customers do not qualify their products, our results of operations may suffer. Some of our customers purchase our products prior to qualification and satisfactory completion of factory audits and vendor evaluation. Our existing products, as well as each new product, must pass through varying levels of qualification with our customers. In addition, because of rapid technological changes in our market, a customer may cancel or modify a design project before we begin large-scale manufacture of the product and receive revenue from the customer. It is unlikely that we would be able to recover the expenses for cancelled or unutilized custom design projects. It is difficult to predict with any certainty whether our customers will delay or terminate product qualification or the frequency with which customers will cancel or modify their projects, but any such delay, cancellation or modification could have a negative effect on our results of operations. If network service providers that purchase equipment or systems from our customers fail to qualify or delay qualifications of our customers’ equipment or systems that contain our products, our business could be harmed. Qualification and field-testing of our customers’ systems by network service providers is long and unpredictable. This process is not under the control of our company or our customers, and, as a result, timing of our sales is unpredictable. Any unanticipated delay in qualification of one of our customers’ network systems could result in the delay or cancellation of orders from our customers for components and systems included in the applicable network system and could harm our results of operations. Our customers may elect to in-source production of certain components they traditionally have purchased from us, resulting in decreases in our revenue. Our revenue may decrease if certain of our direct and indirect significant customers, such as Tellabs and Verizon, respectively, or a substantial number of our customers overall chose to in-source production of the various types of components they currently purchase from us. If we cannot find alternate customers to purchase such components going forward, we may suffer not only a reduction in revenue, but may also have excess capacity in our production facilities and underutilized employees, undermining the overall efficiency and productivity of our operations. We do not have long-term volume purchase contracts with our customers, so our customers may increase, decrease, cancel or delay their buying levels at any time with minimal advance notice to us, which may significantly harm our business. Our customers typically purchase our products pursuant to individual purchase orders. While our customers generally provide us with their demand forecasts, in most cases they are not contractually committed to buy any quantity of products beyond firm purchase orders. Our customers may increase, decrease, cancel or delay purchase orders already in place. If any of our major customers decrease, stop or delay purchasing our products for any reason, our business and results of operations would be harmed. Cancellation or delays of such orders may cause us to fail to achieve our short- and long-term financial and operating goals. In the past, during periods of severe market downturns, certain of our largest customers canceled significant orders with us and with our competitors, which resulted in losses of sales and excess and obsolete inventory, that led to inventory and asset disposals throughout the industry. Similarly, decreases or deferrals of purchases by our customers may significantly harm our industry and specifically our business in these and in additional unforeseen ways, particularly if they are not anticipated. 18 Table of Contents We may suffer losses as a result of entering into fixed price contracts. From time to time we enter into contracts with certain customers in which the price we charge for particular products is fixed. Although our estimated production costs for these products is used to compute the fixed price for sale, if our actual production cost exceeds the estimated production cost because of our inability to obtain needed components timely, or at all, or for other reasons, we may incur a loss on the sale. Sales of material amounts of products on a fixed price basis, for which we have not accurately forecasted the production costs, could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. One customer accounted for a substantial portion of our sales during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, increasing both our dependence on a single revenue source and the risk that our operations will suffer materially if the customer stopped ordering from us or substantially reduced its business with us. The evident trend of consolidations in our markets could make us dependent on a smaller number of customers or force us to compete with even larger competitors. Until 2006, no customer accounted for 10 percent or more of our revenue and accordingly we were not dependent on any single customer. For the year ended December 31, 2007, no customer accounted for 10 percent or more of our revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we had one customer, Tellabs, Inc., an original equipment manufacturer for Verizon Communications, Inc., which accounted for 13% of our total revenues. Although not amounting to 10% or more of our total revenues during 2007, Tellabs accounted for a substantial portion of those revenues. Among other projects, Tellabs supplies Verizon for its large-scale deployment of fiber optic technology to individual homes and businesses to replace copper wire. Called fiber-to-the-premise, or FTTP, the technology provides the bandwidth and speed to make available an array of services that Verizon markets under the brand name “FiOS.” While our financial performance for 2007 and 2006 benefited from substantial sales to Tellabs, because of the magnitude of sales to that customer, our results would suffer if we were to lose their business. Additionally, if Tellabs made a substantial reduction in orders, or Verizon switched OEMs to a company that was not our customer, our results of operations would suffer unless we were able to replace the customer or orders with one or more customers of comparable size. Our sales are made on credit and our results of operations would be adversely affected if this customer were to experience unexpected financial reversals resulting in it being unable to pay for our products. The markets for network infrastructure fiber optic products, which constitute our customer base and competition, are each dominated by a small number of large companies and each is currently consolidating. Consolidation reduces the number of potential customers and may increase our dependence on an even smaller number of customers. It is also creating competition from other companies, which, through consolidation with other equipment and component suppliers, are growing larger with greater resources than we have to devote to development, promotion, sale and support of their products. Global economic conditions affecting our markets and those of our customers have harmed our operations and although conditions in our markets have improved, we have not achieved profitably on a consolidated basis for a full year since 1997 and may never again achieve such profitability. From time to time, we have experienced significant decreases in demand for our products and services as a result of economic conditions affecting our markets. Similarly, demand for our customers’ products has been negatively impacted, resulting in our customers delaying purchases of our products, or ordering lower volumes of our products than we previously anticipated. In the first few years of the new millennium, as a result of the economic downturn in the United States and internationally, and reduced capital spending, sales in our markets declined substantially. While the markets, our business, and our customers’ businesses have improved each year since 2003, we cannot provide assurance that this 19 Table of Contents improvement is sustainable, or that our markets will not again suffer declines similar to or worse than those occurring in 2002 and 2003. On a consolidated basis, we reported net losses for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 and have not achieved profitability on a consolidated basis for a full year since 1997. We anticipate continuing to incur significant product development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses and, as a result, we will need to continue our efforts to contain expense levels and increase revenue levels in an effort to achieve profitability in future fiscal quarters and years. However, we may not be successful and we may not attain profitability on a sustained basis or at all. We face risks in reselling the products of other companies. We distribute products manufactured by other companies. To the extent we succeed in reselling the products of these companies, or products of other vendors with which we may enter into similar arrangements, we may be required by customers to assume warranty and service obligations. While these suppliers have agreed to support us with respect to those obligations, if they should be unable, for any reason, to provide the required support, we may have to expend our own resources on doing so. We are unable to evaluate fully the potential magnitude of these warranty claims as the equipment has been designed and manufactured by others. There is a limited number of potential source suppliers for certain components. We currently purchase several key components used in the manufacture of our products from single or limited sources. We depend on these sources to meet our needs. Moreover, we depend on the quality of the products supplied to us, over which we have limited control. We have encountered shortages and delays in obtaining components in the past and expect to encounter shortages and delays in the future. If we cannot supply products due to a lack of certain components, or are unable to redesign products with other components, which in certain cases have been qualified by our customers, in a timely manner, our business will be significantly harmed. In our fiber optic components business particularly, our customers generally restrict our ability to change the component parts in our modules without their approval. For less critical components, this may require as little as a specification comparison. For more critical components, such as lasers, photodetectors and key integrated circuits, this may result in repeating the entire qualification process. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for key components that we have qualified to use in the manufacture of certain of our products. Some of these components are available only from a sole source or have been qualified only from a single supplier. We typically have not entered into long-term agreements with our suppliers and, therefore, our suppliers could stop supplying materials and equipment at any time or fail to supply adequate quantities of component parts on a timely basis. It is difficult, costly, time consuming and, on short notice, sometimes impossible for us to identify and qualify new component suppliers. The reliance on a sole supplier, single qualified vendor or limited number of suppliers could result in delivery and quality problems, reduced control over product pricing, reliability and performance and an inability to identify and qualify another supplier in a timely manner. We have in the past had to change suppliers, which, in some instances, has resulted in delays in product development and manufacturing until another supplier was found and qualified. Any such delays in the future may limit our ability to respond to changes in customer and market demands. During the last several years, the number of suppliers of components has decreased significantly and, more recently, demand for components has increased rapidly. Any supply deficiencies relating to the quality or quantities of components we use to manufacture our products could adversely affect our ability to fulfill customer orders and our results of operations. Our inability to achieve adequate production yields for certain components could result in a loss of sales and customers or higher than expected costs. We rely heavily on our own production capability for critical semiconductor lasers and light emitting diodes used in our products. Because we manufacture these and other key components at our own facilities and these components are not readily available from other sources, any interruption of our 20 Table of Contents manufacturing processes could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Furthermore, we have a limited number of employees dedicated to the operation and maintenance of our wafer fabrication equipment, the loss of any of whom could result in our inability to effectively operate and service this equipment. Wafer fabrication is sensitive to many factors, including variations and impurities in the raw materials, the fabrication process, performance of the manufacturing equipment, defects in the masks used to print circuits on the wafer and the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment. We may not be able to maintain acceptable production yields or avoid product shipment delays. In the event adequate production yields are not achieved, resulting in product shipment delays, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Manufacturing yields depend on a number of factors, including the stability and manufacturability of the product design, manufacturing improvements gained over cumulative production volumes, the quality and consistency of component parts and the nature and extent of customization requirements by customers. Higher volume demand for more mature designs requiring less customization generally results in higher manufacturing yields than products with lower volumes, less mature designs and extensive customization. Capacity constraints, raw materials shortages, logistics issues, the introduction of new product lines and changes in our customer requirements, manufacturing facilities or processes or those of our third party contract manufacturers and component suppliers have historically caused, and may in the future cause, significantly reduced manufacturing yields, negatively impacting the gross margins on and our production capacity for those products. Our ability to maintain sufficient manufacturing yields is particularly important with respect to certain products we manufacture such as lasers and photodetectors as a consequence of the long manufacturing process. Moreover, an increase in the rejection and rework rate of products during the quality control process before, during or after manufacture would result in lower yields, gross margins and production capacity. Finally, manufacturing yields and margins can also be lower if we receive and inadvertently use defective or contaminated materials from our suppliers. Because a significant portion of our manufacturing costs is relatively fixed, manufacturing yields may have a significant effect on our results of operations. Lower than expected manufacturing yields could delay product shipments and decrease our revenue and gross margins We rely substantially upon a limited number of contract manufacturing partners and if these contract manufacturers fail to meet our short- and long-term needs and contractual obligations, our business may be negatively impacted. We rely to a significant extent on a limited number of contract manufacturers to assemble, manufacture and test our products. The qualification and set up of these independent manufacturers under quality assurance standards is an expensive and time-consuming process. Certain of our independent manufacturers have a limited history of manufacturing optical modules or other components we use in our products and equipment. In the past, we have experienced delays or other problems, such as inferior quality, insufficient quantity of product and an inability to meet cost targets, which have led to delays in our ability to fulfill customer orders. Additionally, in the past, we have been required to qualify new contract manufacturing partners and replace contract manufacturers, which led to delays in deliveries. Any future interruption in the operations of these manufacturers, or any deficiency in the quality, quantity or timely delivery of the components or products built for us by these manufacturers, could impede our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our customers or require us to contract with and qualify new contract manufacturing partners. As a result, we may lose existing or potential customers or orders and our business may be negatively impacted. If we fail to forecast component and material requirements accurately for our manufacturing facilities, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays. We use rolling forecasts based on anticipated product orders to determine our component requirements. It is very important that we accurately predict both the demand for our products and the lead times required to obtain the necessary components and materials. Lead times for components and materials that we order vary significantly and depend on factors such as specific supplier requirements, the size of the order, contract terms and current market demand for the components. For substantial increases in production levels, some suppliers may need six months or more lead time. If we overestimate our component and material requirements, we may have excess inventory, which would 21 Table of Contents increase our costs. If we underestimate our component and material requirements, we may have inadequate inventory, which could interrupt our manufacturing and delay delivery of our products to our customers. Any of these occurrences would negatively impact our revenue. If we are unable to expand our manufacturing capacity in a timely manner, we may have insufficient capacity to meet demand. We have manufacturing operations in Chatsworth, California and in Hinchey, Taiwan. We also have manufacturing facilities in Shenzhen and Chengdu in the PRC through our acquisition of Fiberxon. We could experience difficulties and disruptions in the manufacture of our products, which could prevent us from achieving timely delivery of products and could result in lost sales. We could also face the inability to procure and install additional capital equipment, a shortage of raw materials we use in our products, a lack of availability of qualified manufacturing personnel to work in our facilities, difficulties in achieving adequate yields from new manufacturing lines and an inability to predict future order volumes. We may experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations, and, as a result, product shipments to our customers could be delayed, which would negatively impact our sales, competitive position and reputation. If we experience disruptions in the future, it may result in lower yields or delays of our product shipments, which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margins and results of operations. We face increased risks associated with our consolidation of our PRC-based manufacturing operations in a single location in Chengdu, China. Historically, we have manufactured most of our products in Taiwan, with some reliance on contract manufacturers in China as well, and Fiberxon manufactured its products in China. We anticipate consolidating our PRC-based manufacturing operations at a single location in Chengdu, China beginning in the second quarter of 2008. Although we believe that the consolidation process should take 18 to 24 months to complete, we could experience delays if we do not receive necessary permits from the local regulatory authorities as quickly as anticipated. Additional delays may occur if we are not able to transition our staff and equipment to our new facilities efficiently, which could result in short-term reductions in our production capabilities or an inability to increase production consistent with our long-term plans. In addition, we may experience higher manufacturing losses and lower gross margins due to the need to maintain older production lines while at the same time incurring expenses related to the consolidation process. Once the consolidation effort is complete, we will face increased risk of loss from any disruption of operations in Chengdu affecting our consolidated facility. Damage to our Chengdu manufacturing facility due to fire, contamination, natural disaster, power loss, unauthorized entry or other events could force us to cease manufacturing our products, resulting in loss of revenue and breached customer contracts. In addition, if the facility or the equipment in the facility is significantly damaged or destroyed for any reason, we may be unable to reallocate efficiently or replace our manufacturing capacity for an extended period of time, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Although our current manufacturing facilities each have a disaster recovery plan, and we intend to adopt a similar plan for the consolidated Chengdu facility, we cannot provide assurance that efforts will proceed according to such plans or that the plans adequately address all potential risks and outcomes. In addition, if the governmental regulations and special incentives pursuant to which we have negotiated use of our facility in Chengdu change, the perceived benefits from such consolidation of our PRC-based manufacturing efforts in Chengdu may not be realized fully or at all. Delays, disruptions or quality control problems in manufacturing could result in delays in product shipments to customers and could adversely affect our business. We may experience delays, disruptions or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations. As a result, we could incur additional costs that would adversely affect gross margins, and product shipments to our customers could be delayed beyond the shipment schedules requested by our customers, which would negatively affect our sales, competitive position and reputation. 22 Table of Contents Our business and future operating results may be adversely affected by events outside of our control. Our insurance coverage for natural disasters is limited. Prior to our acquisition of Fiberxon, we used our facilities in Chatsworth, California for major product design and development and customer support and we manufactured products at our facilities in Hinchey, Taiwan. Although our acquisition of Fiberxon provided us with manufacturing facilities in China, we plan to continue material manufacturing activities in Taiwan. The risk of earthquakes in Southern California and Taiwan is significant because of the proximity of these manufacturing facilities to major earthquake fault lines. In January 1994 and September 1999, major earthquakes near Chatsworth and in Taiwan, respectively, affected our facilities, causing power and communications outages and disruptions that impaired production capacity. While our facilities did not suffer material damage and our business was not materially disrupted by these earthquakes, the occurrence of an earthquake or other natural disaster could result in the disruption of our manufacturing facilities. Any disruption in our manufacturing facilities arising from earthquakes, other natural disasters or other catastrophic events including wildfires and other fires, excessive rain, terrorist attacks and wars, could disrupt our manufacturing ability, which could harm our operations and financial results, and could cause significant delays in the production or shipment of our products until we are able to shift production to different facilities or arrange for third parties to manufacture our products. We may not be able to obtain alternate capacity on favorable terms or at all. The location of our manufacturing facilities in Southern California, Taiwan and China subjects us to increased risk that a natural disaster could disrupt our operations. Although we believe our insurance coverage is adequate to address the variety of potential liabilities we face, our insurance coverage is subject to deductibles and coverage limits. Upon an occurrence of significant natural disaster, such coverage may not be adequate or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. In the event of a major earthquake or other disaster affecting one or more of our facilities, it could significantly disrupt our operations, delay or prevent product manufacture and shipment for the time required to transfer production, repair, rebuild or replace the affected manufacturing facilities. This time frame could be lengthy, and result in significant expenses for repair and related costs. In addition, concerns about terrorism or an outbreak of epidemic diseases such as avian influenza or severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, could have a negative effect on travel and our business operations, and result in adverse consequences to our business and results of operations. Environmental regulations applicable to our manufacturing operations could limit our ability to expand or subject us to substantial costs. Compliance with current and future environmental regulations may be costly which could impact our future operating results. We are subject to a variety of environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals used during our manufacturing processes. Further, we are subject to other safety, labeling and training regulations as required by foreign, local, state and federal law. We believe we are compliant in all material respects with applicable environmental regulations in the U.S., Taiwan and China. However, any failure by us to comply with present and future regulations, could subject us to future liabilities or the suspension of production. In addition, such regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities and we may need to acquire costly equipment or incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations. We cannot provide assurance that legal requirements will not be imposed on us that would require additional capital expenditures or the satisfaction of other requirements. If we fail to obtain required permits or otherwise fail to operate within current or future legal requirements, including those applicable to us in the U.S., Taiwan and China where we maintain facilities, we may be required to pay substantial penalties, suspend our operations or make costly changes to our manufacturing processes or facilities. In addition, we could face significant costs and liabilities in connection with legislation which enables customers to return a product at the end of its useful life and charges us with financial and other responsibility for environmentally safe collection, recycling, treatment and disposal. We also face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and upcoming requirements relating to the materials composition of our products. This includes the restrictions on lead and certain other substances in electronics that apply to specified electronics products 23 Table of Contents put on the market in the European Union as of July 1, 2007 (Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (RoHS)). The labeling provisions of similar legislation in China went into effect on March 1, 2007. Consequently, many suppliers of products sold into the EU countries have required their suppliers to be compliant with the new directive. Many of our customers have adopted this approach and have required our full compliance. For all customers which require us to ship RoHS-compliant products, we believe we have been able to do so and are not aware of any complaints or investigations regarding our RoHS program. Even though we have devoted a significant amount of resources and effort planning and executing our RoHS program, it is possible that some of our products might be incompatible with such regulations. In such event, we could experience the following: loss of revenue, damaged reputation, diversion of resources, monetary penalties and legal action. Other environmental regulations may require us to reengineer our products to utilize components that are more environmentally compatible. Such reengineering and component substitution may result in additional costs to us. Although we currently do not anticipate any material adverse effects based on the nature of our operations and the effect of such laws, there is no assurance that such existing laws or future laws will not have a material adverse effect on us. Our business and our customers are dependent on shipping companies for delivery of our products and interruptions to shipping or increased shipping costs could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Our business and our customers rely on a variety of carriers for product transportation through various world ports. A work stoppage, strike or shutdown of one or more major ports or airports could result in shipping delays materially and adversely affecting us and our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Similarly, an increase in freight surcharges from rising fuel costs or general price increases could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. We may be faced with product liability claims. Despite quality assurance measures, there remains a risk that defects may occur in our products. The occurrence of any defects in our products could give rise to liability for damages caused by such defects. Defects could, moreover, impair the market’s acceptance of our products. Both could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Although we carry product liability insurance, and believe such coverage is adequate based on the historical rate and nature of customer product quality claims or complaints, we cannot provide assurance that this insurance would adequately cover our costs arising from any significant defects in our products. If we become subject to unfair hiring claims, we could incur substantial defense costs Companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that their competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices or that employees have misappropriated confidential information or trade secrets. We cannot provide assurance that we will not receive claims of this kind or other claims relating to our employees in the future as we seek to hire qualified personnel or that those claims will not result in material litigation. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves or our employees against such claims, regardless of their merits. In addition, defending ourselves or our employees from such claims could divert the attention of our management away from our operations. Our business and future operating results are subject to a wide range of uncertainties arising out of the international nature of our operations and facilities. International sales are a significant part of our business. The following table sets forth the percentage of our total revenues from sales to customers in foreign countries for the periods identified: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Percentage of revenues from international sales 68 % 67 % 74 % 24 Table of Contents We have offices and facilities in, and conduct a significant portion of our operations in and from Israel, China and Taiwan and outsource substantial manufacturing to third-party contract manufacturers in China. We are, therefore, influenced by the political and economic conditions affecting these countries. Risks we face from international sales and our use of facilities and suppliers overseas for manufacturing include: • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; • the impact of recessions in economies outside the United States; • changes in regulatory requirements; • seasonal reductions in business activities in some parts of the world, such as during the summer months in Europe or in the winter months in Asia when the Chinese Lunar New Year is celebrated; • difficulties in managing operations across disparate geographic areas; • difficulties associated with enforcing agreements through foreign legal systems; • the payment of operating expenses in local currencies, which exposes us to risks of currency exchange rate fluctuations; • higher credit risks requiring cash in advance or letters of credit; • potentially adverse tax consequences, increasing taxes and heightened efforts by officials of foreign countries to increase revenues from tax collection; • increasing labor costs or other cost increases; • unavailability or delays in delivery of equipment, raw materials or key components; • trade restrictions, tariff increases and increasing import-export duties; • shipping delays; • limited protection of intellectual property rights; • tightening immigration controls that may adversely affect the residency status of our engineers, other key technical and other employees in our U.S. facilities who are not permanent U.S. residents or our ability to hire new non-U.S. employees in our U.S. facilities; • increasing U.S. and foreign environmental regulation or unforeseen environmental or engineering problems; and • personnel recruitment delays or the inability to obtain skilled technical, financial and management personnel needed in countries, such as China where we have facilities. Our business and operations are also subject to general geopolitical conditions, such as terrorism, political and economic instability, changes in the costs of key resources such as crude oil and changes in diplomatic or trade relationships. Economic conditions in several countries and markets outside the United States in which we have offices, personnel, facilities or sales represent significant risks to us. Instability in the Middle East, China or the European Union could have a negative impact on our sales and operations in these regions, and unstable conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The 25 Table of Contents wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and other turmoil in the Middle East and the global war on terror also may have negative effects on our business operations, including our U.S. operations. For example, heightened U.S. security concerns on domestic and international travel and commerce may result in increased immigration controls that could impact the residency status of our non-U.S. engineers and other key employees working in our U.S. facilities. In addition to the effect of global economic instability on our operations or facilities on sales to customers outside the United States, sales to United States customers could be negatively impacted by these conditions. We are subject to a number of additional business risks as a consequence of our acquisition of Fiberxon. On July 1, 2007, we acquired Fiberxon, which designs, manufacturing and markets high performance, cost effective and value-added modular optical link interfaces for optical communication systems. Although formerly headquartered in Santa Clara, California, USA, the Fiberxon entity conducts design and manufacturing activities at its facilities located in the PRC. Our future results of operations will be substantially influenced by the operations of Fiberxon’s legacy business. In addition to the risks associated with any acquisition, we are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and challenges related specifically to the acquisition of Fiberxon, including: • integration and retention of Fiberxon’s key management, sales, research and development and other personnel; • recruiting trained and experienced successor personnel in China, who are in much demand and limited supply, to fill vacancies in key positions; • incorporation of Fiberxon’s products and technology that we acquired as part of the acquisition with our products and technology; • coordinating Fiberxon’s manufacturing operations with ours; • integrating and supporting Fiberxon’s pre-existing supplier, distribution and customer relationships and coordinating sales and marketing efforts to communicate the capabilities of our combined company effectively; • consolidating duplicate facilities and functions, combining back office accounting, order processing and support functions and rationalizing information technology and operational infrastructures; • minimizing the diversion of attention by our management and that of Fiberxon from ongoing core business concerns; • successfully returning managers to regular business responsibilities from their integration activities; • operating a much larger company with operations in China, where our senior management has no operational experience; • managing geographically dispersed operations and personnel with diverse cultural backgrounds and organizational structures and overcoming the potential incompatibility of business cultures and/or the loss of key Fiberxon personnel; • efficiently reducing the combined company’s sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses; including expected increases in professional advisor fees related to the new profile of our combined companies, without associated disruption of our combined businesses; 26 Table of Contents • overcoming expected difficulties in financial forecasting due to our limited familiarity with Fiberxon’s operations, customers and markets or their impact on the overall results of operations of the combined company; and • maintaining the proper level of internal control over financial reporting in a foreign business environment in which we became aware of allegations of historical financial and accounting irregularities. Our efforts to meet these and other challenges could potentially disrupt our ongoing business operations and distract management from day-to-day operational matters, as well as forestall other strategic opportunities. These efforts could strain our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems, procedures implemented to collect financial data, prepare financial statements, books of account, and corporate records, and hinder our ability to prepare reliable business and financial forecasts. We may also encounter difficulties instituting business practices that meet Western standards and the expectations of the U.S. financial and investment community. Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are impracticable to estimate now. We may encounter unforeseen obstacles or costs in the integration of Fiberxon’s business or discover the existence of one or more material liabilities that are not now known and were not known at the time of the closing of the acquisition. The known and unknown problems and expenses and other difficulties we encounter in the integration process could, particularly in the near term, exceed the benefits that we expect to realize from the combination of Fiberxon’s business with ours. We may not successfully address problems encountered in connection with future acquisitions on which we may embark. As we have in connection with our acquisition of Fiberxon, we expect to continue to consider opportunities to acquire or make investments in other technologies, products and businesses that could enhance our capabilities, complement or augment our current products or expand the breadth and geography of our markets or customer base. We have limited experience in acquiring other businesses and technologies. The acquisition of Fiberxon and other potential acquisitions we may make, involve numerous risks, including: • problems assimilating the purchased technologies, products or business operations, including the timely integration of financial reporting systems; • problems may arise from acquiring companies in countries where English is not widely spoken, and the culture, political, economic, financial or monetary systems, principles or controls are different from those countries where we have maintained offices and have had facilities for an extended period, and in which we have substantial experience conducting operations; • problems maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies; • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; • start-up costs associated with any new business or product line we may acquire; • possible charges to operations for purchased technology and restructuring; • impairment charges related to goodwill and amortization expenses of other intangible assets and deferred stock expense; • incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; • adverse effects on our existing businesses as a result of providing funds or financing to support the operations of the acquired business; 27 Table of Contents • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers or on relations with our existing employees; • risks associated with entering new markets, such as those in China, in which we have limited or no prior experience; • potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses and difficulties recruiting adequate replacements; • the need to hire additional employees to operate the acquired business effectively, including employees with specialized knowledge or language skills; • potential litigation risks associated with acquisitions, whether completed or not; • dilutive issuances of our equity securities; and • increased legal and accounting costs as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions properly, our management team may be distracted or their attention diverted from our core businesses and their day-to-day operations, disrupting our business and adversely affecting our operating results. Our efforts to acquire Fiberxon have resulted in substantial expenses. Efforts to pursue other acquisitions, if any, could result in substantial expenses and could adversely affect our operating results if those acquisitions are not successfully consummated. The challenges of the integration process may minimize or negate the anticipated benefits from our acquisition of Fiberxon. Realization of the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of Fiberxon depends on our ability to complete the integration of Fiberxon’s technology, products, operations, personnel and distribution channels with our historical operations and systems in a timely and efficient manner. The challenges involved in this integration include: • incorporating acquired technology and products into a cohesive line of products; • introducing Fiberxon’s products into existing distribution channels while maintaining any vital historical Fiberxon distribution channels; • transitioning Fiberxon’s operations and financial reporting function to our existing operations and financial reporting systems; and • coordinating the efforts of the resulting larger manufacturing and sales organizations. The integration of any newly acquired business is time consuming and expensive, and may disrupt both the acquiree’s business as well as our historical businesses. Specifically, delays or disruptions in existing processes as a result of the integration may result in the loss of customers or key employees and the diversion of the attention of management from other operational issues, any of which could have a negative effect upon our overall business results and our stock price. Our operating results have been impacted by foreign exchange rates and our activities seeking to hedge against currency exchange and interest rate fluctuations. The majority of our sales are currently denominated in U.S. dollars. As we conduct business in several different countries, we have recently benefited from sales made in currencies other than the U.S. dollar because of the weakness of the U.S. dollar relative to the currencies in which these sales have been made. However, if this trend ceases or reverses, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could cause our products to become relatively more expensive in particular countries, leading to a reduction in 28 Table of Contents sales in that country. In addition, inflation or fluctuations in currency exchange or interest rates in these countries could increase our expenses and thereby adversely affect our operating results. Due to our acquisition of Fiberxon, foreign currency fluctuations between the Chinese RMB and the U.S. dollar may affect our total revenue going forward and, if present trends continue in China could significantly affect our operating results. Giving pro forma effect to our acquisition of Fiberxon as of January 1, 2007, approximately 15% of our total operating costs and expenses would have been paid in RMB. Approximately 8% of our total pro forma combined revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007 was denominated in RMB. Through one of our foreign subsidiaries, we have entered into foreign exchange and interest rate swap contracts to protect against currency exchange risks related to purchase commitments denominated in foreign currencies other than their functional currency, primarily the U.S. dollar and to hedge exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Net unrealized gains (losses) from these activities during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 amounted to $552,000, $161,000 and ($926,000), respectively. We could incur losses from these or other hedging activities in the future. We face risks inherent in doing business in China. As our operations in China assume a larger and more important role in our business, the risks inherent in doing business in China will become more acute. Many of these risks are beyond our control, including: • potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses and difficulties recruiting adequate replacements; • the need to hire additional employees to operate the acquired business effectively, including employees with specialized knowledge or language skills; • potential litigation risks associated with acquisitions, whether completed or not; • dilutive issuances of our equity securities; and • increased legal and accounting costs as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. • difficulties in obtaining domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; • compliance with PRC laws, including employment laws; and • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including cultural differences in the conduct of business, labor and other workforce requirements and inadequate local infrastructure. Any of these factors could harm our future revenues, gross margins and operations significantly. Moreover, the political tension between Taiwan and the PRC that continues to exist could eventually lead to hostilities, or there may be regulatory issues with either the PRC or Taiwan as a result of our having operations or business interests in both countries. Our manufacturing capacity may be interrupted, limited or delayed if we cannot maintain sufficient sources of electricity in China. The manufacturing processes for our products require a substantial and stable source of electricity. As our production capabilities increase in China, our requirements for electricity in China will grow substantially. Many companies with operations in China have experienced a lack of sufficient electricity supply and we cannot be assured that electric power generators that we may have available will produce sufficient electricity supply in the event of a disruption in power. Power interruptions, 29 Table of Contents electricity shortages, the cost of fuel to run power generators or government intervention, particularly in the form of rationing, are factors that could restrict access to electricity to our PRC manufacturing facilities, and adversely affect manufacturing costs. Any such power shortages could result in delays in shipments to our customers and, potentially, the loss of customer orders and penalties from such customers for the delay. Prior to our acquisition of Fiberxon, allegations of financial and accounting irregularities were revealed. If we failed to identify all of the irregularities, we may have to restate Fiberxon’s financial statements, as well as MRV financial statements, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock. We are in the process of implementing our internal controls over financial reporting and procedures throughout Fiberxon’s operations and taking other remedial actions designed to prevent the reoccurrence of pre-acquisition accounting irregularities discovered in Fiberxon’s financial statements. Prior to our acquisition of Fiberxon, allegations of financial and accounting irregularities were revealed that called into question the reliability of Fiberxon’s consolidated financial statements for its fiscal years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005 and raised serious concerns regarding Fiberxon’s financial reporting processes. These irregularities led to the departure of both Fiberxon’s chief executive officer (principal executive officer) and its vice president of finance (principal financial and accounting officer), in early 2007 prior to the closing of our acquisition of Fiberxon. These issues led to the investigation by Fiberxon’s audit committee into the nature and extent of the irregularities and their effect on Fiberxon’s historical financial statements. Further, in June 2007 the independent auditors engaged by Fiberxon to audit its financial statements at and for each of the three years ended December 31, 2006 reported to Fiberxon’s audit committee that in addition to irregularities identified and reported by Fiberxon’s audit committee, Fiberxon’s independent auditors had identified a number of serious issues and encountered significant difficulties in the performance of its audit. In the view of Fiberxon’s auditors, these issues called into question Fiberxon’s ability to: maintain reliable financial reporting systems including accounting books and records, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States or the PRC; identify, and ensure that Fiberxon complies with, the laws and regulations applicable to its activities and to inform Fiberxon’s auditors of any known material violations of such laws or regulations; adjust Fiberxon’s financial statements to correct material misstatements; and make all financial records and related information available to its auditors. In the view of Fiberxon’s auditors, these matters also raised doubt regarding the ability of Fiberxon’s departed management to provide its auditors the written representations required under auditing standards generally accepted in the United States. After our acquisition of Fiberxon, we engaged third parties who conducted internal investigations and concluded that the actions resulting in the financial and accounting irregularities were limited to the ex-chief executive officer and the ex-vice president of finance. In addition, we engaged third parties to reconstruct the financial statements of Fiberxon for each of the three years ended December 31, 2006, and the six months ended June 30, 2007. Based upon the reconstructed financial statements, an independent accounting firm conducted an audit of Fiberxon’s balance sheets at December 31, 2005 and 2006 and Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the three years ended December 31, 2006. However, Fiberxon’s financial statements for the six month period ended June 30, 2007 were not audited. Despite the results of our third party investigations, we cannot provide absolute assurance that the conduct that resulted in the financial and accounting irregularities affecting Fiberxon’s pre-reconstructed financial statements were limited to the misconduct of the ex-chief executive officer and the ex-vice president of finance. We cannot provide assurance that there was no other past misconduct or irregularities, not currently known to us, that might result in further material adjustments to Fiberxon’s financial statements and, as a result, our pro forma combined financial statements. If material adjustments were made to our financial statements, or they were restated, as a consequence of the discovery of additional financial irregularities, it could erode investor confidence in our ability to provide accurate financial statements and negatively impact the price of our common stock. If we fail to implement and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Fiberxon’s internal controls are not included in management’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. 30 Table of Contents We are required to establish and maintain appropriate internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to establish those controls, or any failure of those controls once established, could adversely impact our public disclosures regarding our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, management’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting may identify weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed in our internal controls over financial reporting or other matters that may raise concerns for investors. Any actual or perceived weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed in our internal control over financial reporting, disclosure of management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm’s report on our internal controls over financial reporting may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock and may require significant management time and resources to remedy. For example, in connection with the previously disclosed accounting irregularities at Fiberxon prior to its acquisition, we have taken remediation steps that include the following: • We have further engaged one of the firms responsible for the reconstruction of Fiberxon’s financial statements to assist us in prioritizing and implementing key internal controls at Fiberxon that are comparable to those underlying our financial reporting process. • We have implemented a new financial reporting structure under which all financial and accounting matters are reported directly to our Chief Financial Officer. • We have hired a new vice president of finance based in China with U.S. public company experience and five additional financial and accounting professionals to support her. We acquired Fiberxon on July 1, 2007 and Fiberxon’s assets and liabilities and financial results at, and for the six months ended, December 31, 2007 have been included in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Report. At December 31, 2007, Fiberxon’s total assets were $173.9 million and net assets were $129.3 million. During the six months from the date of our acquisition of Fiberxon through December 31, 2007 Fiberxon’s results of operations contributed $42.1 million in revenue, $4.2 million in operating loss and a net loss of $4.8 million. Because the acquisition was completed in mid 2007, the scope of our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 appearing elsewhere in this Report does not include Fiberxon. This exclusion is in accordance with the general guidance issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission that an assessment of a recently acquired business may be omitted from management’s report on internal control over financial reporting in the year of acquisition. We continue to assess and take steps designed to improve Fiberxon’s internal controls over financial reporting and procedures; however, if these accounting controls and procedures ultimately prove to be ineffective, we could experience future accounting irregularities and restatements of our financial results, which would negatively impact the price of our common stock. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We could suffer losses from corrupt or fraudulent business practices. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In addition, we are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent our transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions, and therefore may have a competitive advantage over us. Prior to the completion of the acquisition, Fiberxon’s management and employees were not subject to the FCPA. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices are common in the PRC. Unless we are successful in implementing and maintaining adequate preventative measures, of which there can be no assurance, our employees or other agents engaging in such conduct could render us responsible under the FCPA. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in these practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents We are subject to increased taxes in China because of the discontinuation of certain preferential tax treatments that were available to foreign enterprises prior to January 1, 2008. Our subsidiaries in China formerly paid enterprise income taxes, or EIT, under an income tax law that was applicable to both wholly domestic China enterprises and so-called foreign invested enterprises, or FIEs. Within the PRC, both domestic enterprises and foreign-invested enterprises were generally subject to an EIT rate of 33%. However, under this law and its implementing rules, qualified foreign-invested production enterprises incorporated and operating in certain economic development zones designated by the State Council enjoyed reduced EIT rates and certain preferential tax treatments. Our subsidiaries in China, which are FIEs, qualified for these reduced EIT rates and preferential tax treatments and prior to January 1, 2008 were subject to a reduced EIT rate of 15%. In addition, our China subsidiaries were entitled to a two-year exemption from EIT, followed by three years of a 50% tax reduction beginning from the first cumulative profit-making year net of losses carried forward. One of our China subsidiaries in Shenzhen was not able to realize such preferential tax treatment because it has not made a profit since its inception. Another of our subsidiaries in Chengdu is in its fifth year of the five years of preferential tax treatment under the law preexisting January 1, 2008. On March 16, 2007, China enacted a new Enterprise Income Tax Law (the “EIT Law”) under which, effective January 1, 2008, China adopted a uniform EIT rate of 25% for all enterprises (including FIEs) and cancels all preferential tax treatments that were previously enjoyed by FIEs. According to the China State Council circular (Guofa [2007] No. 39) dated December 26, 2007, for FIEs, such as our Shenzhen and Chengdu subsidiaries, which were established before March 16, 2007, a five-year transition period is provided during which the preferential tax treatments will continue to apply but gradually be phased out. Under the Circular, qualifying FIEs will continue to benefit from reduced EIT rates during the five-year transition period in accordance with the following schedule: Tax Year Rate under EIT Law 2008 18% 2009 20% 2010 22% 2011 24% 2012 25% In addition, pursuant to the Circular, for FIEs that have begun to realize the preferential tax treatment of the two year tax exemption and three year 50% tax reduction, they can continue to utilize such benefit until the expiration of the five year term. However, for FIEs that have not begun to realize such preferential tax treatment prior to January 1, 2008, the five year term shall begin to run effective January 1, 2008, regardless of whether those FIEs are making profit or not. Accordingly, our Shenzhen subsidiary entered into this five year term effective January 1, 2008 irrespective of its profitability and 2008 is the last year in which our Chengdu subsidiary will be entitled to a 50% tax reduction on EIT. It thus appears that the EIT Law and its associated new income tax rates will reduce after tax net income from Fiberxon’s operations if they become profitable and decrease income, if any, available for distribution to us from our China subsidiaries. Accordingly, the enactment and implementation of the EIT will, and potential new tax laws in China may further, reduce many of the tax saving benefits we had hoped to realize by expanding our operations into the PRC. Payment of dividends by our subsidiaries in the PRC to us is subject to restrictions and taxes under PRC law. Under PRC law, dividends may be paid only out of distributable profits. Distributable profits with respect to our subsidiaries in the PRC refers to after-tax profits as determined in accordance with accounting principles and financial regulations applicable to PRC enterprises, or China GAAP, less any recovery of accumulated losses and allocations to statutory funds that it is required to make. Any distributable profits that are not distributed in a given year are retained and available for distribution in subsequent years. The calculation of distributable profits under China GAAP differs in many respects 32 Table of Contents from the calculation under U.S. GAAP. Further, under PRC law, our subsidiaries in the PRC are required to allocate no less than 10 percent of their after-tax profits to a statutory general reserve fund until the aggregate balance in the fund reaches 50% of such subsidiaries’ registered capital, at which point further allocations to the fund are no longer required. There is also a requirement for our subsidiaries in the PRC to allocate certain after-tax profits to a staff bonus and welfare fund. But the exact percentage of such allocation is subject to the discretion of such subsidiaries. Allocations to these statutory reserves can only be used for specific purposes and are not distributable to us in the form of loans, advances or cash dividends. As a result, even if our subsidiaries in PRC become profitable, they may not be able to pay any dividend in a given year as determined under China GAAP. Moreover, prior to the new EIT Law, non-PRC equity holders of PRC companies were specifically exempt from withholding taxes with respect to earnings, distributions, or dividends payable to them by such PRC companies. However, under the new EIT Law, dividends payable to foreign investors, which are derived from sources within the PRC, will be subject to income taxes at the rates of up to 10%, which tax must be withheld from the dividends otherwise distributable. As a consequence of this new PRC withholding tax, if our PRC subsidiaries ever become profitable to the extent of being able to pay their stockholders distributable profits as dividends, the amounts available to us in earnings distributions from our PRC enterprises would be reduced by the amount of this new PRC withholding tax at the rates then prevailing. Recent changes in the PRC’s labor law restricts our ability to reduce our workforce in China in the event of an economic downturn and will increase our manufacturing costs and those of the contract manufacturers we use in China to manufacture our products. In June 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC enacted new labor law legislation called the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. It formalizes workers’ rights concerning overtime hours, pensions, layoffs, employment contracts and the role of trade unions. Considered one of the strictest labor laws in the world, among other things, this new law provides for specific standards and procedures for the termination of an employment contract and places the burden of proof on the employer. In addition, the law requires the payment of a statutory severance pay upon the termination of an employment contract in most cases, including the case of the expiration of a fixed term employment contract. Further, the law requires an employer to conclude an “employment contract without a fixed term” with any employee who either has worked for the same employer for 10 consecutive years or more or has had two consecutive fixed term contracts with the same employer. An “employment contract without a fixed term” can no longer be terminated on the ground of the expiration of the contract, although it can sill be terminated pursuant to the standards and procedure set forth under the new law. Because of the lack of implementing rules for the new law and the precedents for the enforcement of such a law, the standards and procedure set forth under the law in relation to the termination of an employment contract have raised concerns among FIEs in China that such “employment contract without a fixed term” might in fact become a “lifetime, permanent employment contract.” Finally, under the new law, downsizing by either more than 20 people or more than 10% of the workforce may occur only under specified circumstances, such as a restructuring undertaken pursuant China’s Enterprise Bankruptcy Law, or where a company suffers serious difficulties in production and/or business operations, or where there has been a material change in the objective economic circumstances relied upon by the parties at the time of the conclusion of the employment contract, thereby making the performance of such employment contract not possible. Again, there has been very little guidance and precedents as to how such specified circumstances for downsizing will be interpreted and enforced by the relevant PRC authorities. All of our employees working for us exclusively within the PRC are covered by the new law and thus, our ability to adjust the size of our operations when necessary in periods of recession or less severe economic downturns may be curtailed. Accordingly, if we face future periods of decline in business activity generally or adverse economic periods specific to our business, this new law can be expected to exacerbate the adverse effect of the economic environment on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the new law can be expected to increase our manufacturing costs and those of the contract manufacturers we use in China to manufacture our products in China and, unless we can pass any increases on to customers, which could be difficult, would reduce our gross margins. 33 Table of Contents Labor shortages in Southern China could adversely affect our gross margins or decrease revenues. Historically, there has been an abundance of labor in Southern China, but over the last few years, factories in Southern China, particularly in Shenzhen and to a lesser extent in Chengdu, where our manufacturing facilities are located, are to varying degrees facing a labor shortage as migrant workers and middle level management seek better wages and working conditions elsewhere. This trend of labor shortages is expected to continue, fueled by the effects of the one-child policy imposed by the Chinese government over the past three decades and will likely result in increasing wages as companies seek to keep their existing work forces. Continuing labor shortages can be expected to adversely impact our future operating results by, for example, preventing us from manufacturing at peak capacity and forcing us to increase wages and benefits to attract the diminishing pool of available workers. This could result in lower revenue or increased manufacturing costs, which would adversely affect gross margins. Political or trade controversies between China and the United States could harm our operating results or depress our stock price. Differences between the United States and PRC governments on some political issues occasionally negatively influence the trade relationship between the two countries. These controversies, if and when they arise, could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. Political or trade friction between the two countries could also materially and adversely affect the market price of our shares, whether or not they have a direct impact on our business. If our cash flow significantly deteriorates in the future, our liquidity and ability to operate our business could be adversely affected. We may not be able to attain capital when desired on favorable terms, if at all. We incurred net losses in 2007, 2006 and 2005, and our combined cash and short-term investments declined in 2007. Excluding the private placement of approximately 19.9 million shares of our common stock we issued to a group of institutional investors in March 2006, which resulted in proceeds of $69.9 million, our combined cash, cash equivalents, time deposits and short-term and long-term marketable securities would have declined at December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2007, cash, cash equivalents, time deposits and marketable securities have declined by approximately $32.0 million, or approximately 27%, since December 31, 2006. If our cash flow significantly deteriorates in the future, our liquidity and ability to operate our business could be adversely affected. For example, our ability to raise financial capital may be hindered due to our net losses and the possibility of future negative cash flow. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or otherwise have the capital resources to meet our future capital needs. If this occurs, we may need additional financing to satisfy our remaining deferred consideration obligation in connection with our acquisition of Fiberxon, if we choose to pay it in cash, or to execute on our current or future business strategies, including to: • satisfy our deferred payment obligation, if paid in cash, to the former stockholders of Fiberxon, which amounts to $31.5 million (excluding applicable offsets) and is due no later than March 28, 2009; • acquire complementary businesses or technologies; • enhance our operating infrastructure; • hire additional technical, sales and other personnel; • make investments in capital equipment, facilities and technology; • expand our manufacturing facilities; 34 Table of Contents • fund our working capital requirements; or • otherwise respond to competitive pressures. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of our common stock or convertible securities, or if we elect to satisfy our deferred consideration obligation to Fiberxon’s former stockholders using shares of our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted. We cannot provide assurance that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, if and when needed, our ability to fund our operations, use cash to satisfy our deferred consideration obligation, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance our products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures could be significantly limited. Our proprietary rights may be inadequately protected and there is a risk of poor enforcement of intellectual property rights in China. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in China is uncertain and still evolving, and PRC laws may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of some other jurisdictions, such as the United States. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable competitors, especially in the PRC, to benefit from our technologies without paying us any royalties. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, we may not be able to compete. We rely on a combination of trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure and patents, copyrights and trademarks to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that our pending patent applications will be approved, that any patents that may be issued will protect our intellectual property or that third parties will not challenge any issued patents. Other parties may independently develop similar or competing technology or design around any patents that may be issued to us. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Any of this kind of litigation, regardless of outcome, could be expensive and time consuming, and adverse determinations in any of this kind of litigation could seriously harm our business. We could in the future become subject to litigation regarding intellectual property rights, which could be costly and subject us to significant liability. From time to time, third parties, including our competitors, may assert patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us. Over the years, we have received notices from third parties alleging possible infringement of patents with respect to certain features of our products or our manufacturing processes and in connection with these notices have been involved in discussions with the claimants, including IBM, Lucent, Ortel, Nortel, Rockwell, the Lemelson Foundation, Finisar and Apcon. To date, our aggregate revenues potentially subject to the foregoing claims have not been material. However, these or other companies may pursue litigation with respect to these or other claims. The results of any litigation are inherently uncertain. In the event of an adverse result in any litigation with respect to intellectual property rights relevant to our products that could arise in the future, we could be required to obtain licenses to the infringing technology, to pay substantial damages under applicable law, to cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products or to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology. Licenses may not be available from third parties either on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, litigation frequently involves substantial expenditures and can require significant management attention, even if we ultimately prevail. Accordingly, any infringement claim or litigation against us could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 35 Table of Contents In the future, we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights to protect these rights or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of competitors. These claims could result in costly litigation and the diversion of our technical and management personnel. Necessary licenses of third-party technology may not be available to us or may be very expensive, which could adversely affect our ability to manufacture and sell our products. From time to time we may be required to license technology from third parties to develop new products or product enhancements. We cannot assure you that third-party licenses will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The inability to obtain any third-party license required to develop new products and product enhancements could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost, either of which could seriously harm our ability to manufacture and sell our products. We are dependent on certain members of our senior management. We are substantially dependent upon Dr. Shlomo Margalit, our Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Technical Officer and Secretary, and Mr. Noam Lotan, our President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of either of these officers could have a material adverse effect on us. We have entered into employment agreements with Dr. Margalit and Mr. Lotan and are the beneficiary of a key person life insurance policy in the amount of $1.0 million on Mr. Lotan’s life. However, we can give no assurance that the proceeds from this policy will be sufficient to compensate us in the event of the death of Mr. Lotan, and the policy is not applicable in the event that he becomes disabled or is otherwise unable to render services to us. Our business requires us to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our ability to develop, manufacture and market our products, run our operations and our ability to compete with our current and future competitors depend, and will depend, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Competition for executives and qualified personnel in the networking and fiber optics industries is intense, and we will be required to compete for those personnel with companies having substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. To attract executives, we have had to enter into compensation arrangements, which have resulted in substantial deferred stock expense and adversely affected our results of operations. We may enter into similar arrangements in the future to attract qualified executives. If we should be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to utilize our NOLs and certain other tax attributes may be limited. As of December 31, 2007, we had net operating losses, or NOLs, of approximately $193.8 million for federal income tax purposes and approximately $199.6 million for state income tax purposes. We also had capital loss carry forwards totaling $47.6 million as of December 31, 2007, which begin to expire in 2009. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, if a corporation undergoes an “ownership change,” the corporation’s ability to use its pre-change NOLs, capital loss carry forwards and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income may be limited. An ownership change is generally defined as a greater than 50% change in its equity ownership by value over a three-year period. We may experience an ownership change in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership, including as a result of issuing shares pursuant to the Fiberxon transaction. If we were to trigger an ownership change in the future, our ability to use any NOLs and capital loss carry forwards existing at that time could be limited. The price of our shares may continue to be highly volatile. Historically, the market price of our shares has been volatile. The market price of our common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be significantly affected by factors such as: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; 36 Table of Contents • announcements of technological innovations or new product introductions by us or our competitors; • changes of estimates of our future operating results by securities analysts; • developments with respect to patents, copyrights or proprietary rights; • to the extent not already sold, sales, or the potential for sales, of substantial numbers of our shares by 1) stockholders who acquired our shares in a private placement we completed in March 2006, by 2) stockholders receiving our shares in our acquisition of Fiberxon on July 1, 2007, or by 3) Deutsche Bank, which received our shares in August 2007 in exchange for our outstanding 5% Convertible Notes issued in June 2003. These shares are held by persons or entities who we believe are not our affiliates and are therefore eligible for sale under Rule 144 or Rule 145, as amended effective February 15, 2007, without restriction; or • general market conditions and other factors. In addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for shares of the common stocks of technology companies, unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. Similarly, the failure by our competitors or customers to meet or exceed the results expected by analysts or investors could have a residual effect on us and cause our stock price to decline. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been granted stock options. Legislative actions, higher insurance costs and new accounting pronouncements are likely to impact our future financial position and results of operations. There have been regulatory changes, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Stock Market rules and there may be new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings, which will have an impact on our future financial position and results of operations. These regulatory changes and other legislative initiatives have increased general and administrative costs. In addition, insurers are likely to increase rates as a result of high claim rates recently and our rates for various insurance policies are likely to increase. The Financial Accounting Standards Board’s change to mandate expensing share-based compensation requires us to record charges to operations for stock option grants to employees and directors. Such change has adversely affected our financial results since we implemented the new pronouncement in 2006 and will continue to adversely affect our financial results in the future. We are at risk of securities class action or other litigation that could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. Securities class action and stockholder derivative litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities or for perceived breaches of duties owing to the companies’ stockholders. Due to the volatility and potential volatility of our stock price generally, or as result of the consequences or potential consequences of our acquisition of Fiberxon, we may be the target of securities, derivative or other litigation in the future. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. 37 Table of Contents We were unable to timely file an amendment to our Form 8-K reporting the completion of our acquisition of Fiberxon containing Fiberxon’s audited consolidated financial statements and the pro forma financial information required by item 9.01 of Form 8-K by September 14, 2007. As such, we were late in complying with our reporting obligations under the Exchange Act, and we are ineligible until October 1, 2008 to use the SEC’s short-form registration statement to raise capital. On July 2, 2007, within the period required by SEC rules, we filed with the SEC a Current Report on Form 8-K reporting the completion of our acquisition of Fiberxon on July 1, 2007. In order to close the acquisition of Fiberxon on July 1, 2007, we, among other things, waived the condition precedent to the closing requiring that Fiberxon deliver to us its audited consolidated financial statements at, and for the years ended, December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006. Under Item 9.01, of Form 8-K, we were required to include Fiberxon’s audited consolidated financial statements and pro forma financial information in the form and for the periods specified by the SEC in an amendment to that Form 8-K that was due by September 14, 2007. Our inability to file the required financial statements and pro forma financial information by the September 14, 2007 deadline has rendered us ineligible until October 1, 2008 to use the SEC’s short-form registration statement on Form S-3 to register the issuance of our securities for any capital raising activities and that ineligibility may inhibit our ability to raise capital during that period. If we were able to raise capital during the period of our ineligibility to use Form S-3, the process of doing so will be more expensive and time consuming and the terms of any offering transaction may not be as favorable as they would have been if we were eligible to use Form S-3. Delaware law and our ability to issue preferred stock may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control, which may cause our stock price to decline. We are authorized to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock. This preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by our board of directors without further action by stockholders. The terms of any series of preferred stock may include voting rights (including the right to vote as a series on particular matters), preferences as to dividend, liquidation, conversion and redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. No preferred stock is currently outstanding. The issuance of any preferred stock could materially adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock, and therefore, reduce the value of our common stock. In particular, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell our assets to, a third party and thereby preserve control by the present management. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibit us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder unless the business combination is approved in the manner prescribed under Section 203. These provisions of Delaware law also may discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us, which may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 38 Table of Contents 