ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS All of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the risks discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial could, in the future, materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and financial results. 20 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Segments Changes in capital markets, M&A activity and legal or regulatory requirements and general economic or other factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services, in which case our revenues and profitability could decline. A number of factors outside of our control affect demand for our services. These include: • fluctuations in U.S. or global economies in general and the strength and rate of any general economic recovery from the 2008/2009 economic recession; • the U.S. or global financial markets and the availability, costs and terms of credit in the wake of the 2008/2009 financial crisis; • the level of leverage incurred by companies; • M&A activity; • over-expansion by businesses; • business and management crises; • new and complex laws and regulations; • other economic and geographic factors; and • general business conditions. Our Corporate Finance/Restructuring segment provides various restructuring and restructuring-related services to companies in financial distress or their creditors or other stakeholders. In 2010, we experienced a decline of restructuring (including bankruptcy) engagements and a reduction in large cases, which resulted in a greater portion of that segment’s business being comprised of bankruptcy and restructuring engagements involving mid-size companies. This reversed the trend that the segment had been experiencing between 2008 and 2009, when we worked on large bankruptcy and restructuring engagements resulting from the economic recession and the real estate, bank and credit crises. In our experience, mid-size bankruptcy and restructuring engagements are smaller and are more susceptible to cyclical factors such as holidays and vacations and lower utilization during those periods. Factors outside of our control also drive demand for the services of our other business segments. For example, decreases in litigation filings, class action suits and regulatory investigations and settlements of proceedings may adversely affect our Forensic and Litigation Consulting, Economic Consulting and Technology segments. In 2010, our Economic Consulting segment, which provides antitrust and competition advice and damages consulting, experienced a slower than anticipated recovery in utilization as M&A and capital market transactions recovered at a slower than anticipated pace due to the slow economic recovery, large M&A transactions continued to be scarce, and clients continued to delay authorizing major work on engagements until later in the litigation or investigations cycle. Our Strategic Communications segment has also experienced a slower than anticipated increase in utilization from 2008 and 2009 levels and retainer revenues, primarily as a result of the slow economic recovery, depressed M&A and public stock offering activity, and client decisions to postpone or curtail discretionary spending. We are not able to predict the positive or negative effects that future events or changes to the U.S. or global economy, financial markets and business environment could have on our operations. Changes to any of the factors described above as well as other events, including by way of example, continuing contractions of world economies, banking and credit markets and real estate and retail industries, changes to laws and regulations, including changes to the bankruptcy code, tort reform, banking reform, or a decline in government enforcement or litigation or monetary damages or remedies that are sought, may have adverse effects on one or more of our segments. 21 Table of Contents Our revenues, operating income and cash flows are likely to fluctuate. We experience periodic fluctuations in our revenues, operating income and cash flows and expect that this will continue to occur in the future. We experience fluctuations in our annual or quarterly revenues and operating income because of the timing of our client assignments, utilization of our revenue-generating professionals, the types of assignments we are working on at different times, new hiring, business and asset acquisitions, decreased productivity because of vacations taken by our professionals and economic factors beyond our control. Our profitability is likely to decline if we experience an unexpected variation in the number or timing of client assignments or in the utilization rates of our professionals, especially during the third and fourth quarters when substantial numbers of our professionals take vacations. We may also experience future fluctuations in our cash flows because of increases in employee compensation, including changes to our incentive compensation structure and the timing of incentive payments, which we generally pay during the first quarter of each year. Also, the timing of future acquisitions and the cost of integrating them may cause fluctuations in our operating results. Our segments may face risks of fee non-payment, clients may seek to renegotiate existing fees and contract arrangements, and clients may not accept billable rate increases, which could result in loss of clients, fee write-offs, reduced revenues and less profitable business. Our segments are engaged by clients who are experiencing or anticipate experiencing financial distress or are facing complex challenges that could result in financial liabilities. This is particularly true in light of the 2008/2009 economic recession, the current slow economic recovery, and lingering effects of the financial market and real estate downturns. Such clients may not have sufficient funds to continue operations or to pay for our services. We typically do not receive retainers before we begin performing services on a client’s behalf in connection with a significant number of engagements in our Forensic and Litigation Consulting and Economic Consulting segments and with respect to bankruptcy engagements in our Corporate Finance/Restructuring segment. In the cases where we have received retainers, we cannot assure the retainers will adequately cover our fees for the services we perform on behalf of these clients. With respect to bankruptcy cases, bankruptcy courts have the discretion to require us to return all, or a portion of, our fees. We have received requests to discount our fees or to negotiate lower rates for our services and to agree to contract terms relative to the scope of services and other terms that may limit the size of an engagement or our ability to pass through costs. We consider these requests on a case-by-case basis. We have been receiving these types of requests and negotiations more frequently as the economy has deteriorated and recovered slowly. In addition, our clients and prospective clients may not accept rate increases that we have recently put into effect or plan to implement in the future. Fee discounts, pressure to not increase or even decrease our rates and less advantageous contract terms, could result in the loss of clients, lower revenues and operating income, higher costs and less profitable engagements. More write-offs than we expect in any period would have a negative impact on our results of operations. There is no assurance that significant client engagements will be renewed or replaced in a timely manner or if at all, or that engagements will generate the same volume of work or revenues, and be as profitable as past engagements. The clients of certain of our sub-practices prefer fixed and other alternative fee arrangements that place cost ceilings or other limitations on our fee structure. Our segment’s ability to service clients with these fee arrangements at a cost that does not directly correlate to time and materials may negatively impact or result in a loss of the profitability of such engagement, adversely affecting the financial results of the segment. In addition, our Technology segment has experienced significant price competition from lower cost competitors. Our Technology segment faces certain risks, including the risk that (i) its proprietary software products may be subject to technological changes and obsolescence, which would make it more difficult for us to compete and (ii) we may not effectively protect the intellectual property used by that segment. The success of our technology business and its ability to compete depends, in part, upon our technology and other intellectual property, including our proprietary Ringtail® and TrialMax® software and other proprietary 22 Table of Contents information and intellectual property rights. The software and products of our Technology segment are subject to rapid technological innovation. There is no assurance that we will successfully develop new versions of our Ringtail® software, or other products. Our software may not keep pace with industry changes and innovation. There is no assurance that new, innovative or improved software or products will be developed, compete effectively with the software and technology developed and offered by competitors, or be accepted by our clients or the marketplace. If our Technology segment is unable to develop and offer competitive software and products or is otherwise unable to capitalize on market opportunities, the revenues, net income and growth of the Technology segment and the Company could decline. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect these assets. Our Ringtail® and TrialMax® software and related documentation are protected principally under trade secret and copyright laws, which afford only limited protection, and the laws of some foreign jurisdictions provide less protection for our proprietary rights than the laws of the U.S. Certain aspects of our Technology segment software are protected by patents granted in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Unauthorized use and misuse of our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the legal remedies available to us may not adequately compensate us for the damages caused by unauthorized use. We may not manage our growth effectively and our profitability may suffer. We experience fluctuations in growth with periods of rapid growth. Periods of rapid expansion of our business may strain our management team, human resources and information systems. We cannot assure that we can successfully manage the integration of the companies and assets we acquire or that they will result in the financial, operational and other benefits that we anticipate. To manage growth successfully, we may need to add qualified managers and employees and periodically update our operating, financial and other systems, as well as our internal procedures and controls. We also must effectively motivate, train and manage a larger professional staff. Some acquisitions may not be immediately accretive to earnings and some expansion may result in significant expenditures, which may adversely affect profitability in the near term. If we fail to add qualified managers and employees, estimate costs or manage our growth effectively, our business, financial results and financial condition may be harmed. Risks Related to Our Operations If we do not effectively manage the utilization of our professionals our financial results could decline. If we fail to manage the utilization of our professionals who bill on an hourly basis or maintain or increase the hourly rates we charge our clients for our services, we may experience adverse consequences, such as non- or lower-revenue-generating professionals, the loss of clients and engagements or the inability to appropriately staff engagements. In such event, our financial results may decline. A number of factors affect the utilization of our professionals. Some of these factors we cannot predict with certainty, including general economic and financial market conditions, the number, size and timing of client engagements, the level of demand for our services, appropriate professional staffing levels in light of changing client demands, utilization of professionals across segments, acquisitions and staff vacations. Factors that could negatively affect utilization in our Corporate Finance/Restructuring segment include the completion of bankruptcy proceedings, completion of current engagements, fewer and smaller restructuring (including bankruptcy) cases, a recovering or strong economy, easy credit availability, low interest rates and less M&A activity. Factors that could negatively affect utilization in our Forensic and Litigation Consulting segment include the settlement of litigation, fewer and less complex legal disputes, fewer class action suits, the timing of the completion of engagements, less government regulation or fewer regulatory investigations and the timing of government investigations and litigation. Factors that could adversely affect utilization in our Economic Consulting segment include less M&A activity, fewer regulatory filings and less litigation, reduced antitrust and competition regulation, fewer government investigations and proceedings and timing of client utilization of our services. Our global expansion into new locations where we are not well known or where demand for our services is not well developed could also contribute to low or lower utilization rates in certain locations. 23 Table of Contents Our Technology segment derives revenue from recurring licensing fees and the amount of data hosted for a client. Factors that could adversely affect our Technology segment’s revenues include the settlement of litigation and a decline in and less complex litigation proceedings and governmental investigations. Our Strategic Communications segment derives revenues from fixed monthly fee and retainer based contracts. Factors that could adversely affect our Strategic Communications segment’s revenues include a decline in M&A activity, fewer event driven crises affecting businesses, fewer public securities offerings and general economic decline that may reduce certain discretionary spending by clients. In addition, lower priced competition could adversely affect the revenues of these segments. Our international operations involve special risks. Primarily as a result of acquisitions, we operate in 22 countries in addition to the U.S. We expect to continue our international expansion, and our international revenues are expected to account for an increasing portion of our revenues in the future. In the year ended December 31, 2010, operations outside of the U.S. accounted for approximately 21% of our total revenues, of which approximately 42% were generated by our Strategic Communications segment. Our international operations involve financial and business risks that differ from or are in addition to those faced by our U.S. operations, including: • cultural and language differences; • limited “brand” recognition of FTI Consulting in non-U.S. markets; • employment laws and rules and related social and cultural factors that could result in lower utilization rates and cyclical fluctuations in utilization and revenues; • currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies that could adversely affect financial and operating results; • different regulatory requirements and other barriers to conducting business; • greater difficulties in resolving the collection of receivables when legal proceedings are necessary; • greater difficulties in managing our non-U.S. operations in certain locations; • higher operating costs; • longer sales cycles; • restrictions or adverse tax consequences for the repatriation of earnings; • potentially adverse tax consequences, such as trapped foreign losses; • different or less stable political and economic environments; and • civil disturbances or other catastrophic events that reduce business activity. If we are not able to quickly adapt to our new geographic markets outside of the U.S., our business prospects and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Risks Related to Our People Our failure to retain and recruit qualified professionals could negatively affect our financial results and our ability to staff client engagements, maintain relationships with clients and drive future growth. We deliver sophisticated professional services to our clients. To attract and retain clients, we need to demonstrate professional acumen and build trust and strong relationships. Our professionals have highly specialized skills. They also develop strong bonds with the clients they serve. Our continued success depends upon our ability to attract and retain professionals who have expertise, reputations and client relationships critical to maintaining and developing our business. We face intense competition in recruiting and retaining highly 24 Table of Contents qualified professionals to drive our organic growth and support expansion of our services and geographic footprint. We cannot assure that we will be able to attract and retain enough qualified professionals to maintain or expand our business. Moreover, competition has been increasing our costs of retaining and hiring qualified professionals, a trend which could adversely affect our operating margins and financial results. As of December 31, 2010, we had written employment arrangements with substantially all of our 305 SMDs, of which 179 employment agreements have fixed terms ending between 2011 and 2019. In an effort to reduce risk, 147 of such written agreements provide that at the end of the initial term they renew for one year from year-to-year unless either party provides written notice of non-renewal to the other party at least 90 days prior to the date of the expiration of the initial term or any extended term. Of the 179 agreements, 54 will come up for renewal in 2011 and 36 will come up for renewal in 2012, primarily as a result of our 2006 and 2007 initiatives to renegotiate long-term employment arrangements with certain SMDs who participate in our SMD IC Program. All of our written employment arrangements with SMDs include covenants providing for restrictions on the SMD’s ability to compete and solicit the employees of the Company following the end of their employment. Despite the renewal provisions, we could face retention issues at the end of the terms of those agreements and large compensation expenses to secure extensions. There is no assurance we will enter into new long-term employment agreements with other SMDs, although that is our intention. We monitor contract expirations carefully to commence dialogues with professionals regarding their employment well in advance of the actual contract expiration dates. Our goal is to renew employment agreements when advisable and to stagger the expirations of the agreements if possible. Because of the concentration of contract expirations in certain years, we may experience high turnover or other adverse consequences, such as higher costs, loss of clients and engagements or difficulty staffing engagements, if we are unable to renegotiate employment arrangements or the costs of retaining qualified professionals become higher. The admission of additional SMDs into the SMD IC Program may result in the concentration of expirations in future years. We incur substantial costs to hire and retain our professionals and we expect these costs to continue and grow. We make unsecured general recourse forgivable loans and grant stock option and restricted stock awards to attract and retain our professional employees. In 2006, we implemented our SMD IC Program, which is designed to align the interests of our professionals with the interests of our company and its stakeholders. The cost of implementing and retaining our SMD IC Program has been significant. Participants receive cash payments in the form of unsecured general recourse forgivable loans. We also make forgivable loans to new hires and professionals who join us in connection with acquisitions as well as current employees on a case-by-case basis. Some or all of the principal amount and accrued interest of the loans we make to employees will be forgiven by us upon the passage of time, provided that the professional is an employee on the forgiveness date, and upon other specified events, such as death, disability, termination by us without cause or termination by the employee with good reason, as may be applicable to such loan grant. We expect to continue issuing significant amounts of unsecured general recourse forgivable loans. We also provide significant additional payments under the SMD IC Program in the form of stock options and restricted stock awards or, alternatively, cash if we do not have adequate equity securities available under stockholder approved equity plans. In addition, our Economic Consulting segment has contracts with its economists that provide for compensation equal to such professionals annual collected client fees plus a percentage of the annual fees generated by junior professionals working on engagements managed by such professionals, which results in compensation expense for that segment being a higher percentage of revenues and EBITDA than the compensation paid by other segments. We expect that these arrangements will continue and that the Company will enter into similar arrangements with other economists hired by the Company. We rely heavily on our executive officers and the heads of our business segments and geographic regions for the success of our business. We rely heavily on our executive officers and the heads of our business segments to manage our segments and operations. Given the highly specialized nature of our services and the scale of our operations, our executive 25 Table of Contents officers and senior managers must have a thorough understanding of our service offerings as well as the skills and experience necessary to manage a large organization in diverse geographic locations. If one or more members of our management team leaves and we cannot replace them with suitable candidates quickly, we could experience difficulty in managing our business properly. This could harm our business prospects, client relationships, employee morale and financial results. We may not have, or may choose not to pursue, legal recourse against professionals who leave our company to form or join competitors. Our professionals typically have close relationships with the clients they serve, based on their expertise and bonds of personal trust and confidence. Although our clients generally contract for services with us as a company, and not with individual professionals, in the event that professionals leave, such clients may decide that they prefer to continue working with a professional rather than with our company. Substantially all of our written employment arrangements with our SMDs include non-competition and non-solicitation covenants. These restrictions have generally been drafted to comply with state “reasonableness” standards. However, states generally interpret restrictions on competition narrowly and in favor of employees. Therefore, a state may hold certain restrictions on competition to be unenforceable. In the case of employees outside of the U.S., we draft non-competition provisions in an effort to comply with applicable foreign law. In the event an employee departs and acts in a way that we believe violates his or her non-competition or non-solicitation agreement, we will consider any legal remedies we may have against such person on a case-by-case basis. We may decide that preserving cooperation and a professional relationship with the former employee or client, or other concerns, outweigh the benefits of any possible legal recourse. We may also decide that the likelihood of success does not justify the costs of pursuing a legal remedy. Therefore, we may decide not to pursue legal action, even if it is available to us. Risks Related to Our Client Relationships If we are unable to accept client engagements due to real or perceived relationship issues, our revenues, growth, client engagements and prospects may be negatively affected. Our inability to accept engagements from clients or prospective clients, represent multiple clients in connection with the same or competitive engagements, and any requirement that we resign from client engagements may negatively impact our revenues, growth and financial results. While we follow internal practices to assess real and potential issues in the relationships between and among our clients, engagements, practices and professionals, such concerns cannot always be avoided. For example, we generally will not represent parties adverse to each other in the same matter. Under federal bankruptcy rules, we generally may not represent both a debtor and its creditors in the same proceeding, and we are required to notify the U.S. Trustee of real or potential conflicts. Even if we begin a bankruptcy-related engagement, the U.S. Trustee could find that we no longer meet the disinterestedness standard because of real or potential changes in our status as a disinterested party, and order us to resign, which could result in disgorgement of fees. Acquisitions may require us to resign from a current client engagement because of relationship issues that are not currently identifiable. In addition, businesses that we acquire or employees who join us may not be free to accept engagements they could have accepted prior to our acquisition or hire because of relationship issues. Claims involving our services could harm our overall professional reputation and our ability to compete and attract business and hire and retain qualified professionals. Our engagements involve matters that may result in a severe impact on a client’s business, cause the client a substantial monetary loss or prevent the client from pursuing business opportunities. Our ability to attract new clients and generate new and repeat engagements depends upon our ability to maintain a high degree of client satisfaction as well as our reputation among industry professionals. As a result, any claims against us involving the quality of our services may be more damaging than similar claims against businesses in other industries. 26 Table of Contents We may incur significant costs and may lose engagements as a result of claims by our clients regarding our services. Many of our engagements involve complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including litigation and governmental investigatory matters where we act as experts. Therefore, we are subject to the risk of professional liability. Although we believe we maintain an appropriate amount of liability insurance, it is limited. Any claim by a client or a third party against us could expose us to professional or other liabilities in excess of the amount of our insurance limits. Damages and/or expenses resulting from any successful claims against us, for indemnity or otherwise, in excess of the amount of insurance coverage we maintain, would have to be borne directly by us and could harm our profitability and financial resources. Our clients may terminate our engagements with little or no notice and without penalty, which may result in unexpected declines in our utilization and revenues. Our engagements center on transactions, disputes, litigation and other event-driven occurrences that require independent analysis or expert services. Transactions may be postponed or cancelled, litigation may be settled or be dismissed, and disputes may be resolved, in each case with little or no prior notice to us. If we cannot manage our backlog, our professionals may be underutilized until we can reassign them or obtain new engagements, which can adversely affect financial results. The engagement letters that we typically enter into with clients do not obligate them to continue to use our services. Typically, our engagement letters permit clients to terminate our services at any time without penalties. In addition, our business involves large client engagements that we staff with a substantial number of professionals. At any time, one or more client engagements may represent a significant portion of a segment’s revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2010, two clients of our Technology segment accounted for approximately 36% of that segment’s annual revenues and one client of our Forensic and Litigation Consulting segment accounted for approximately 12% of that segment’s annual revenues. If we are unable to replace clients or revenues as engagements end, clients unexpectedly cancel engagements with us or curtail the scope of our engagements, and we are unable to replace the revenues from those engagements, eliminate the costs associated with those engagements or find other engagements to utilize our professionals, the financial results and profitability of a segment or the Company could be adversely affected. We may not have, or may choose not to pursue, legal remedies against clients who terminate their engagements. The engagement letters that we typically have with clients do not obligate them to continue to use our services and permit them to terminate the engagement without penalty at any time. Even if the termination of an ongoing engagement by a client could constitute a breach of the client’s engagement agreement, we may decide that preserving the overall client relationship is more important than seeking damages for the breach, and for that or other reasons, decide not to pursue any legal remedies against a client, even though such remedies may be available to us. We make the determination whether to pursue any legal actions against a client on a case-by-case basis. Failure to protect our client confidential information could subject us to claims or impair our reputation and ability to obtain new client engagements, and governmental focus on data security could increase our costs of operations. If we do not maintain the confidentiality of client information, we may be exposed to claims and potential liability. Our reputation may be damaged by a compromise of data security, unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or accidental loss or theft of client data in our possession. If our reputation is damaged due to a data security breach, our ability to attract new engagements may be impaired, which could negatively impact our businesses, financial condition or results of operations. 27 Table of Contents In reaction to publicized incidents in which electronically stored information has been lost, illegally accessed or stolen, many states have adopted breach of data security statutes and regulations. In addition, many non-U.S. jurisdictions have data privacy laws applicable to personal information. Continued governmental focus on data security may lead to additional legislative and regulatory action. The increased emphasis on information security and the requirements to comply with applicable U.S. and foreign data privacy laws and regulations may increase our costs of doing business and negatively impact our results of operations. Our Technology segment may host or act as a repository for confidential and proprietary client information, the loss or disclosure of which could result in significant losses and damages. Risks Related to Competition If we fail to compete effectively, we may miss new business opportunities or lose existing clients and our revenues and profitability may decline. The market for our consulting services is highly competitive. We do not compete against the same companies across all of our segments or services. Instead we compete with different companies or businesses of companies depending on the particular nature of a proposed engagement and the requested service(s). Our businesses are highly competitive. Our competitors include large organizations, such as the global accounting firms and the large management and financial consulting companies that offer a broad range of consulting services, investment banking firms, consulting and software companies, which offer niche services that are the same or similar to services or products offered by one or more of our segments, and small firms and independent contractors that focus on specialized services. Some of our competitors have significantly more financial resources, a larger national or international presence, larger professional staffs and greater brand recognition than we do. Some have lower overhead and other costs and can compete through lower cost service offerings. Since our business depends in large part on professional relationships, our business has low barriers of entry for professionals electing to start their own firms or work independently. In addition, it is relatively easy for professionals to change employers. If we cannot compete effectively with our competitors or if the costs of competing, including the costs of retaining and hiring professionals, becomes too expensive, our expected revenue growth and financial results may differ materially from our expectations. We may face competition from parties who sell us their businesses and from professionals who cease working for us. In connection with our acquisitions, we generally obtain non-solicitation agreements from the professionals we hire, as well as non-competition agreements from senior managers and professionals. The agreements prohibit such individuals from competing with us during the term of their employment and for a fixed period afterwards and seeking to solicit our employees or clients. In some cases, but not all, we may obtain non-competition or non-solicitation agreements from parties who sell us their business or assets. The duration of post-employment non-competition and non-solicitation agreements typically range from six- to 12-months. Non-competition agreements with the sellers of businesses or assets that we acquire typically continue longer than 12- months. Certain activities may be carved out of or otherwise may not be prohibited by these arrangements. We cannot assure that one or more of the parties from whom we acquire assets or a business and who do not join us or leave our employment will not compete with us or solicit our employees or clients in the future. Such persons, because they have worked for our company or a business that we acquire, may be able to compete more effectively with us, or be more successful in soliciting our employees and clients, than unaffiliated third parties. Risks Relating to our Acquisition Strategy If we fail to find suitable acquisition candidates, or if we are unable to take advantage of opportunistic acquisition situations, our ability to expand our business may be slowed or curtailed. If the competition for acquisitions increases, or if the cost of acquiring businesses or assets becomes too expensive, the number of suitable acquisition opportunities may decline, the cost of making an acquisition may 28 Table of Contents increase or we may be forced to agree to less advantageous acquisition terms for the companies that we are able to acquire. Alternatively, at the time an acquisition opportunity presents itself, internal and external pressures (including, but not limited to, borrowing capacity under our amended and restated senior secured bank credit facility or the availability of alternative financing), may cause us to be unable to pursue or complete an acquisition. Our ability to grow our business, particularly through acquisitions, may depend on our ability to raise capital by selling equity or debt securities or obtaining additional debt financing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing when we need it or on terms acceptable to us. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to grow our business or expand our client offerings as quickly as we have in the past or as we currently plan. We may have difficulty integrating our acquisitions or convincing clients to allow assignment of their engagements to us, which can reduce the benefits we receive from acquisitions. A substantial amount of our growth has resulted from acquisitions. The process of managing and integrating our acquisitions into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial, operational and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the operation, development and expansion of our existing business. To the extent that we misjudge our ability to integrate and properly manage acquisitions, we may have difficulty achieving our operating, strategic and financial objectives. Acquisitions also may involve a number of special financial, business and operational risks, such as: • difficulties in integrating diverse corporate cultures and management styles; • disparate company policies and practices; • client relationship issues; • decreased utilization during the integration process; • loss of key existing or acquired personnel; • increased costs to improve or coordinate managerial, operational, financial and administrative systems; • dilutive issuances of equity securities, including convertible debt securities to finance acquisitions; • the assumption of legal liabilities; • future earn-out payments or other price adjustments; and • potential write-offs relating to the impairment of goodwill or other acquired intangible assets. In addition to the integration challenges mentioned above, our acquisitions of non-U.S. companies offer distinct integration challenges relating to foreign laws and governmental regulations, including tax and employee benefit laws, and other factors relating to operating in countries other than the U.S., which have been discussed above in the discussion regarding the difficulties we may face operating globally. Asset transactions may require us to seek client consents to the assignment of their engagements to us or a subsidiary. All clients may not consent to an assignment. In certain cases, such as government contracts and bankruptcy engagements, the consents of clients cannot be solicited until after the acquisition has closed. Further, such engagements may be subject to security clearance requirements or bidding provisions with which we might not be able to comply. There is no assurance that local, state, federal or foreign governments will agree to novate their contracts to us. Strategic acquisitions may not be accretive in the near term. To compete for strategic acquisitions, competitive market conditions may require us to pay prices that represent a higher multiple of revenues or profits than acquisitions we make in other business sectors. As a result of these competitive dynamics, certain acquisitions with strategic importance may not be accretive to our overall financial results in the near term. 29 Table of Contents We may have a different system of governance and management from the companies we acquire or their parents, which could cause professionals who join us from acquired companies to leave us. Our governance and management practices and policies do not mirror the policies and practices of acquired companies or their parents. In some cases, different management practices and policies may lead to workplace dissatisfaction on the part of acquired professionals. Some professionals may choose not to join our company or leave after joining us. Existing professionals may leave us as well. The loss of key professionals may harm our business and results of operations and cause us not to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Due to fluctuations in our stock price, acquisition candidates may be reluctant to accept shares of our common stock as purchase price consideration, use of our shares as purchase price consideration may be more dilutive, and the owners of certain companies we seek to acquire may insist on stock price guarantees. We structure many acquisitions to pay a portion of the purchase price in shares of our common stock. The number of shares issued as consideration is typically based on an average closing price per share of our common stock for a number of days prior to the closing of such acquisition. We believe that payment in the form of FTI shares of common stock provides the acquired entity and its principals with a vested interest in the future success of the acquisition and FTI. The recent extreme volatility of stock markets and the recent decline and volatility of the price per share of FTI common stock may result in acquisition candidates being reluctant to accept our shares as consideration. In such cases, we may have to issue more shares, if stock constitutes part of the consideration, pay the entire purchase price in cash, or negotiate an alternative price structure. The result may be an increase in the cost of an acquisition. Certain acquisition related agreements contain stock price guarantees that may result in cash payments in the future if our price per share falls below a specified per share market value on the date restrictions lapse. Acquisition candidates may continue to negotiate stock price guarantees, particularly in light of our recent stock price volatility, which may increase the cash paid for an acquisition. Risks Related to our Indebtedness Our leverage could adversely affect our financial condition or operating flexibility and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding Notes, Revolving Credit Facility and other outstanding indebtedness. Our total consolidated long-term debt as of December 31, 2010 was approximately $792.8 million, after giving effect to the offering and sale of $400.0 million principal amount of our 6 3/4% senior notes due 2020, or 2020 Notes, and our purchase or redemption of $200 million of our outstanding 7 5/8% Senior Notes due 2013, or 2013 Notes, which closed on October 12, 2010 pursuant to the Tender Offer that commenced on September 14, 2010. On September 27, 2010, we closed our new $250.0 million senior secured bank revolving credit facility, or Revolving Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2010, we had $246.4 million of undrawn availability under our Revolving Credit Facility. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences on our future operations, including: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment and other obligations under our outstanding senior notes or our other outstanding debt, which may result in defaults; • resulting in an event of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes, the credit agreement governing the Revolving Credit Facility and the documents governing our other outstanding debt agreements, which could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable and could permit the lenders under our Revolving Credit Facility to foreclose on the assets securing such debt; • subjecting us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases on our debt with variable interest rates, including the Revolving Credit Facility; 30 Table of Contents • reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged. If we or our subsidiaries incur additional debt, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify. Our ability to pay principal and interest on and to refinance our debt depends upon the operating performance of our subsidiaries, which will be affected by, among other things, general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us under our Revolving Credit Facility or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. In the event that we need to refinance all or a portion of our outstanding debt before maturity or as it matures, we may not be able to obtain terms as favorable as the terms of our existing debt or refinance our existing debt at all. If interest rates or other factors existing at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to the refinanced debt would increase. Furthermore, if any rating agency changes our credit rating or outlook, our debt and equity securities could be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may still incur significant additional indebtedness, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness, in the future. The terms of the indentures governing our 7 3/4% senior notes due 2016, or 2016 Notes, 2020 Notes and 3 3/4% convertible senior subordinated notes due 2012, or Convertible Notes, or collectively referred to with the 2016 Notes and 2020 Notes, the Notes, and our Revolving Credit Facility, limit, but do not prohibit, us from incurring additional indebtedness. In addition, the indentures that govern the Notes will allow us to issue additional notes under certain circumstances which may also be guaranteed by our domestic subsidiaries that guarantee the Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility and our future domestic subsidiaries. The indentures for the Notes also allow us to incur certain other additional secured debt, which would be effectively senior to the Notes. In addition, the indentures for the Notes do not prevent us from incurring other liabilities that do not constitute indebtedness. Our ability to incur additional indebtedness may have the effect of reducing the amounts available to pay amounts due with respect to the Notes. If we incur new debt or other liabilities, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our indebtedness, including the Notes, and we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our payment obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business and economic conditions and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the industries in which we operate and competitive pressures. Our cash flow may not be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our debt and to meet our other obligations, including with respect to the Notes. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments 31 Table of Contents and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the Notes. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements, including our Revolving Credit Facility and the indentures that govern the Notes, may restrict us from pursuing any of these alternatives. Any limitation on our ability to pay principal of and interest on the Notes and/or our Revolving Credit Facility may also reduce the value of our Notes. Our indebtedness is guaranteed by substantially all of our domestic subsidiaries and will be required to be guaranteed by future domestic subsidiaries including those that join us in connection with acquisitions. Substantially all of our U.S. subsidiaries guarantee our obligations under our Notes and Revolving Credit Facility. Future U.S. subsidiaries will be required to provide similar guarantees and, in the case of the Revolving Credit Facility, similar security. If we default on any indebtedness, our U.S. subsidiaries could be required to make payments under their guarantees, and our senior secured creditors could foreclose on their assets to satisfy unpaid obligations, which would materially adversely affect our business and financial results. Our variable rate indebtedness will subject us to interest rate risk, which could cause our annual debt service obligations to increase significantly. Borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility will be at variable rates of interest which expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income would decrease. An increase in debt service obligations under our variable rate indebtedness could affect our ability to make payments required under the terms of the Revolving Credit Facility, Notes or our other indebtedness. The covenants in our Revolving Credit Facility and the indentures governing our Notes impose restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility. The Revolving Credit Facility includes negative covenants that may, subject to exceptions, limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: • create, incur, assume or suffer to exist liens; • make investments and loans; • create, incur, assume or suffer to exist additional indebtedness or guarantees; • engage in mergers, acquisitions, consolidations, sale-leasebacks and other asset sales and dispositions; • pay dividends or redeem or repurchase our capital stock; • alter the business that we and our subsidiaries conduct; • engage in certain transactions with officers, directors, and affiliates; • modify the terms of certain indebtedness, including the indentures governing the Convertible Notes, the 2016 Notes and the 2020 Notes; • prepay, redeem or purchase certain indebtedness, including the Convertible Notes, the 2016 Notes and 2020 Notes; and • make material changes to accounting and reporting practices. In addition, the Revolving Credit Facility includes financial covenants that require us to maintain (i) a maximum leverage ratio, (ii) a maximum senior secured leverage ratio, (iii) a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, and (iv) commencing December 31, 2011, minimum liquidity of at least 115% of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Convertible Notes (excluding amounts subject to net share settlement). 32 Table of Contents The indentures governing the 2016 Notes and 2020 Notes contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that may limit our ability and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • make certain restricted payments; • create or incur certain liens; • create restrictions on the payment of dividends or other distributions to us from our restricted subsidiaries; • engage in certain sale and leaseback transactions; • transfer all or substantially all of our assets or the assets of any restricted subsidiary or enter into merger or consolidation transactions with third parties; and • engage in certain transactions with affiliates. Operating results below current levels or other adverse factors, including a significant increase in interest rates, could result in us being unable to comply with certain debt covenants. If we violate these covenants and are unable to obtain waivers, our debt under these agreements would be in default and could be accelerated and could permit, in the case of secured debt, the lenders to foreclose on our assets securing the debt thereunder. If the indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or on terms that are acceptable to us. If our debt is in default for any reason, our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, complying with these covenants may also cause us to take actions that are not favorable to holders of the Notes and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions. We may not have sufficient funds to repurchase Notes upon a change of control, and certain strategic transactions may not constitute a change of control. The terms of the Notes will require us to make an offer to repurchase the Notes upon the occurrence of a change of control (as defined under the applicable indentures), in some cases at a premium in excess of the principal amount of such Notes plus accrued interest to the date of the purchase. It is possible that we will not have sufficient funds at the time of the change of control to make the required repurchase of Notes and will be required to obtain third party financing to do so. We may not be able to obtain this financing on commercially reasonable terms, or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, the occurrence of certain change of control events may constitute an event of default under the terms of our Revolving Credit Facility. Such an event of default would entitle the lenders under our Revolving Credit Facility to, among other things, cause all outstanding debt to become due and payable. We continuously evaluate and may in the future enter into strategic transactions. Any such transaction could happen at any time, could be material to our business and could take any number of forms, including, for example, an acquisition, merger or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Moreover, such strategic transactions may or may not be deemed to constitute a “change of control” as defined in the indentures that govern the Notes and/or the credit agreement governing our Revolving Credit Facility. We may be required to pay substantial amounts in cash to holders of our Convertible Notes at the time of conversion prior to maturity. Our Convertible Notes will mature on July 15, 2012. The Convertible Notes will be convertible if the trading price of our common stock equals or is above the applicable conversion price for a conversion measurement period. If the trading price of our common stock falls below the applicable conversion price for a 33 Table of Contents conversion measurement period, the Convertible Notes will not be convertible until the trading price of our common stock is again above the applicable conversion price for a conversion measurement period. We may be required to pay substantial amounts in cash to holders of our Convertible Notes prior to their stated maturity due to conversions. The indentures governing the 2016 Notes and 2020 Notes, and the credit agreement governing our Revolving Credit Facility generally allow for these payments in some, but not all, circumstances. Payments of our Convertible Notes upon conversion could be construed to be a prepayment of principal on subordinated debt, and our existing and future senior debt may prohibit us from making those payments, or may restrict our ability to do so by requiring that we satisfy certain covenants relating to the making of restricted payments. If we are unable to pay the conversion consideration, we could seek consent from our senior creditors to make the payment. If we are unable to obtain their consent, we could attempt to refinance the senior debt. If we were unable to obtain consent or refinance the debt, we would be prohibited from paying the cash portion of the conversion consideration, in which case we would have an event of default under the indenture governing our Convertible Notes. An event of default under the indenture governing the Convertible Notes could constitute an event of default under the indentures governing our 2016 Notes and 2020 Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility. The indenture governing the Convertible Notes provides that the Convertible Notes are convertible only upon the occurrence of certain events; therefore, we are not able to control the timing of any conversion of the Convertible Notes. As a result of making cash payments on the Convertible Notes, we may not have sufficient cash to pay the principal of, or interest on, our other indebtedness and fund our other cash needs. We may attempt to borrow under our Revolving Credit Facility to help fund such payments, but there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient availability under that or any successor facility or that our credit facility lenders will allow us to draw on that facility for the purpose of making payments on our Notes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 