Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following discussion of risk factors contains "forward-looking statements" as discussed above under the heading "Cautionary Statement." These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Management's Discussion and Analysis, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A Failure to Maintain or Increase our Dividend Could Reduce the Market Price of Our Stock. The ability to maintain or raise our common dividend is dependent, to a large part, on growth of funds 19 available for distribution. This growth in turn depends upon increased revenues from additional investments and loans, rental increases and mortgage rate increases. At Times, We May Have Limited Access to Capital Which Will Slow Our Growth. A REIT is required to make dividend distributions and retains little cash flow for growth. As a result, growth for a REIT is generally through the steady investment of new capital in real estate assets. There may be times when we will have limited access to capital from the equity and/or debt markets. During such periods, virtually all of our available capital would be required to meet existing commitments and to reduce existing debt. We may not be able, during such periods, to obtain additional equity and/or debt capital or dispose of assets on favorable terms, if at all, at the time we require additional capital to acquire health care properties on a competitive basis or meet our obligations. We believe that our $7.2 million cash balance at December 31, 2012, our low debt levels, $124.5 million available under our $240.0 million Unsecured Credit Agreement and $100.0 million available under the uncommitted private shelf agreement, and our potential ability to access the capital markets through the issuance of $64.6 million of common stock under our Amended Equity Distribution Agreement and through the issuance of debt and/or equity securities under our $167.6 million effective shelf registration, will enable us to meet our obligations and continue to make investments. Income and Returns from Health Care Facilities Can be Volatile. The possibility that the health care properties in which we invest will not generate income sufficient to meet operating expenses, will generate income and capital appreciation, if any, at rates lower than those anticipated or will yield returns lower than those available through investments in comparable real estate or other investments are additional risks of investing in health care related real estate. Income from properties and yields from investments in such properties may be affected by many factors, including changes in governmental regulation (such as zoning laws and government payment), general or local economic conditions (such as fluctuations in interest rates and employment conditions), the available local supply of and demand for improved real estate, a reduction in rental income as the result of an inability to maintain occupancy levels, natural disasters (such as hurricanes, earthquakes and floods) or similar factors. We Depend on Lease Income and Mortgage Payments from Real Property. Approximately 99% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012, was derived from lease income and mortgage payments from real property. Our revenue would be adversely affected if a significant number of our borrowers or lessees were unable to meet their obligations to us or if we were unable to lease our properties or make mortgage loans on economically favorable terms. There can be no assurance that any lessee will exercise its option to renew its lease upon the expiration of the initial term or that if such failure to renew were to occur, we could lease the property to others on favorable terms. We Rely on our Operators. Substantially all of our revenues and sources of cash flows from operations are derived from operating lease rentals and interest earned on outstanding loans receivable. Our investments in mortgage loans and owned properties represent our primary source of liquidity to fund distributions and are dependent upon the performance of the operators on their lease and loan obligations and the rates earned thereon. Our financial position and ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by financial difficulties experienced by any of our lessees or borrowers, including bankruptcies, inability to emerge from bankruptcy, insolvency or general downturn in business of any such operator, or in the event any such operator does not renew and/or extend its relationship with us or our borrowers when it expires. Our Borrowers and Lessees Face Competition in the Health Care Industry. The long term care industry is highly competitive and we expect that it may become more competitive in the future. Our borrowers and lessees are competing with numerous other companies providing similar long term care services or alternatives such as home health agencies, hospices, life care at home, community-based service programs, retirement communities and convalescent centers. There can be no assurance that 20 our borrowers and lessees will not encounter increased competition in the future which could limit their ability to attract residents or expand their businesses and therefore affect their ability to make their debt or lease payments to us. The Health Care Industry is Heavily Regulated by the Government. Our borrowers and lessees who operate health care facilities are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governments. These laws and regulations are subject to frequent and substantial changes resulting from legislation, adoption of rules and regulations, and administrative and judicial interpretations of existing law. These changes may have a dramatic effect on the definition of permissible or impermissible activities, the relative costs associated with doing business and the amount of reimbursement by both government and other third-party payors. These changes may be applied retroactively. The ultimate timing or effect of these changes cannot be predicted. The failure of any borrower of funds from us or lessee of any of our properties to comply with such laws, requirements and regulations could affect its ability to operate its facility or facilities and could adversely affect such borrower's or lessee's ability to make debt or lease payments to us. In March 2010, the President signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which subsequently was amended by the Health Care and Education and Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively referred to as the "Affordable Care Act"). The Affordable Care Act is designed to expand access to affordable health insurance, contain health care costs, and institute a variety of health policy reforms. The provisions of the sweeping law may affect us directly, as well as impact our lessees and borrowers. While certain provisions, such as expanding the insured population, may positively impact the revenues of our lessees and borrowers, other provisions, particularly those intended to reduce federal health care spending, could have a negative impact on our lessees and borrowers. Among other things, the Affordable Care Act: reduces Medicare skilled nursing facility reimbursement by a so-called "productivity adjustment" based on economy-wide productivity gains beginning in fiscal year 2012; requires the development of a value-based purchasing program for Medicare skilled nursing facility services; establishes a national voluntary pilot program to bundle Medicare payments for hospital and post-acute services that could lead to changes in the delivery of post-acute services; and provides incentives to state Medicaid programs to promote community-based care as an alternative to institutional long term care services. The Affordable Care Act also includes provisions intended to expand public disclosure about nursing home ownership and operations, institute mandatory compliance and quality assurance programs, increase penalties for noncompliance, and expand fraud and abuse enforcement and penalty provisions that could impact our operators. In addition, the Affordable Care Act impacts both us and our lessees and borrowers as employers, including new requirements related to the health insurance we offer to our respective employees. Many aspects of the Affordable Care Act are being implemented through new regulations and subregulatory guidance. We cannot predict at this time what effect, if any, the various provisions of the Affordable Care Act will have on our lessees and borrowers or our business. There can be no assurances, however, that the Affordable Care Act will not adversely impact the operations, cash flows or financial condition of our lessees and borrowers, which subsequently could materially adversely impact our revenue and operations. In addition, comprehensive reforms affecting the payment for and availability of health care services have been proposed at the state level and adopted by certain states. Congress and state legislatures can be expected to continue to review and assess alternative health care delivery systems and payment methodologies. In particular, the federal Budget Control Act of 2011 was scheduled to trigger a total of $1.2 trillion in spending reductions in January 2013, divided between domestic and defense spending. Medicare provider payments are subject to sequestration, although reductions are capped at 2%. On January 2, 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, delays sequestration for two months in order to provide an additional opportunity for Congress and the President to agree on alternative deficit reduction options. Such alternatives also could impact the Medicare and Medicaid programs. These and other changes in 21 the law, new interpretations of existing laws, or changes in payment methodologies may have a dramatic effect on the definition of permissible or impermissible activities, the relative costs associated with doing business and the amount of reimbursement by the government and other third party payors. Federal and State Health Care Cost Containment Measures Including Reductions in Reimbursement From Third Party Payors Such as Medicare and Medicaid Could Adversely Affect Us and The Ability of Our Tenants to Make Payments to Us. The ability of our borrowers and lessees to generate revenue and profit determines the underlying value of that property to us. Revenues of our borrowers and skilled nursing property lessees are generally derived from payments for patient care. Sources of such payments include the federal Medicare program, state Medicaid programs, private insurance carriers, health care service plans, health maintenance organizations, preferred provider arrangements, self-insured employers, as well as the patients themselves. The health care industry continues to face increased government and private payor pressure on health care providers to control costs. Certain of these initiatives have had the result of limiting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement for nursing facility services. In particular, the establishment of a Medicare prospective payment system for skilled nursing facility services to replace the cost-based reimbursement system significantly reduced Medicare reimbursement to skilled nursing facility providers. While Congress subsequently took steps to mitigate the impact of the prospective payment system on skilled nursing facilities, other federal legislative and regulatory policies have been adopted and may continue to be proposed that would reduce Medicare and/or Medicaid payments to nursing facilities. Moreover, states are facing increasing budget pressures in light of the current economic conditions, prompting consideration and in some cases adoption of cuts in state Medicaid payments to providers. No assurances can be given that any additional Medicare or Medicaid legislation or regulatory policies adopted by the federal government or the states would not reduce Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement to nursing facilities or result in additional costs for operators of nursing facilities. Congress also has given states greater flexibility to expand access to home and community based services as an alternative to nursing facility services. These provisions could further increase state funding for home and community based services, while prompting states to cut funding for nursing facilities and homes for persons with disabilities. In light of continuing state Medicaid program reforms, budget cuts, and regulatory initiatives, no assurance can be given that the implementation of such regulations and reforms will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our lessees and/or borrowers which, in turn, could affect their ability to meet their contractual obligations to us. We Could Incur More Debt. We operate with a policy of incurring debt when, in the opinion of our Board of Directors, it is advisable. We may incur additional debt by borrowing under our Unsecured Credit Agreement or the uncommitted private shelf agreement, mortgaging properties we own and/or issuing debt securities in a public offering or in a private transaction. Accordingly, we could become more highly leveraged. The degree of leverage could have important consequences to stockholders, including affecting our ability to obtain, in the future, additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes and making us more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy generally. We Could Fail to Collect Amounts Due Under Our Straight-line Rent Receivable Asset. Straight-line accounting requires us to calculate the total rent we will receive as a fixed amount over the life of the lease and recognize that revenue evenly over that life. In a situation where a lease calls for fixed rental increases during the life of the lease, rental income recorded in the early years of a lease is higher than the actual cash rent received which creates an asset on the consolidated balance sheet called straight-line rent receivable. At some point during the lease, depending on the rent levels and terms, this reverses and the cash rent payments received during the later years of the lease are higher than the 22 rental income recognized which reduces the straight-line rent receivable balance to zero by the end of the lease. We periodically assess the collectability of the straight-line rent receivable. If during our assessment we determined that we were unlikely to collect a portion or the entire straight-line rent receivable asset, we may provide a reserve against the previously recognized straight-line rent receivable asset for a portion or up to its full value that we estimate may not be recoverable. Our Assets May be Subject to Impairment Charges. We periodically but not less than quarterly evaluate our real estate investments and other assets for impairment indicators. The judgment regarding the existence of impairment indicators is based on factors such as market conditions, operator performance and legal structure. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we would be required to make an adjustment to the net carrying value of the asset which could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and a non-cash impact on funds from operations in the period in which the write-off occurs. A Failure to Reinvest Cash Available to Us Could Adversely Affect Our Future Revenues and Our Ability to Increase Dividends to Stockholders; There is Considerable Competition in Our Market for Attractive Investments. From time to time, we will have cash available from (1) proceeds of sales of shares of securities, (2) proceeds from new debt issuances, (3) principal payments on our mortgages and other investments, (4) sale of properties, and (5) funds from operations. We may reinvest this cash in health care investments and in accordance with our investment policies, repay outstanding debt or invest in qualified short term or long term investments. We compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors. The competition for attractive investments negatively affects our ability to make timely investments on acceptable terms. Delays in acquiring properties or making loans will negatively impact revenues and perhaps our ability to increase distributions to our stockholders. Our Failure to Qualify as a REIT Would Have Serious Adverse Consequences to Our Stockholders. We intend to operate so as to qualify as a REIT under the Code. We believe that we have been organized and have operated in a manner which would allow us to qualify as a REIT under the Code beginning with our taxable year ended December 31, 1992. However, it is possible that we have been organized or have operated in a manner which would not allow us to qualify as a REIT, or that our future operations could cause us to fail to qualify. Qualification as a REIT requires us to satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual and quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, and we must pay dividends to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% (95% for taxable years ending prior to January 1, 2001) of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital gains). Legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. Unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we lost qualification. If we lose our REIT status, our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders would be significantly reduced for each of the years involved. In addition, we would no longer be required to make distributions to stockholders. Provisions in Our Articles of Incorporation May Limit Ownership of Shares of Our Capital Stock. In order for us to qualify as a REIT, no more than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of our stock may be beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last 23 half of each taxable year. To ensure qualification under this test, our Articles of Incorporation provide that, subject to exceptions, no person may beneficially own more than 9.8% of outstanding shares of any class or series of our stock, including our common stock. Our Board of Directors may exempt a person from the 9.8% ownership limit upon such conditions as the Board of Directors may direct. However, our Board of Directors may not grant an exemption from the 9.8% ownership limit if it would result in the termination of our status as a REIT. Shares of capital stock in excess of the 9.8% ownership limitation that lack an applicable exemption may lose rights to dividends and voting, and may be subject to redemption. As a result of the limitations on ownership set forth in our Articles of Incorporation, acquisition of any shares of capital stock that would result in our disqualification as a REIT may be limited or void. The 9.8% ownership limitation also may have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of us, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might provide a premium price for holders of our capital stock. Our Real Estate Investments are Relatively Illiquid. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and, therefore, tend to limit our ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. All of our properties are "special purpose" properties that cannot be readily converted to general residential, retail or office use. Health care facilities that participate in Medicare or Medicaid must meet extensive program requirements, including physical plant and operational requirements, which are revised from time to time. Such requirements may include a duty to admit Medicare and Medicaid patients, limiting the ability of the facility to increase its private pay census beyond certain limits. Medicare and Medicaid facilities are regularly inspected to determine compliance, and may be excluded from the programs—in some cases without a prior hearing—for failure to meet program requirements. Transfers of operations of nursing homes and other health care-related facilities are subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real estate. Thus, if the operation of any of our properties becomes unprofitable due to competition, age of improvements or other factors such that our lessee or borrower becomes unable to meet its obligations on the lease or mortgage loan, the liquidation value of the property may be substantially less than the net book value or the amount owing on any related mortgage loan, than would be the case if the property were readily adaptable to other uses. The receipt of liquidation proceeds or the replacement of an operator that has defaulted on its lease or loan could be delayed by the approval process of any federal, state or local agency necessary for the transfer of the property or the replacement of the operator with a new operator licensed to manage the facility. In addition, certain significant expenditures associated with real estate investment, such as real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investment. Should such events occur, our income and cash flows from operations would be adversely affected. Our Remedies May Be Limited When Mortgage Loans Default. To the extent we invest in mortgage loans, such mortgage loans may or may not be recourse obligations of the borrower and generally will not be insured or guaranteed by governmental agencies or otherwise. In the event of a default under such obligations, we may have to foreclose on the property underlying the mortgage or protect our interest by acquiring title to a property and thereafter make substantial improvements or repairs in order to maximize the property's investment potential. Borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against such enforcement and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce mortgage obligations. If a borrower seeks bankruptcy protection, the Bankruptcy Court may impose an automatic stay that would preclude us from enforcing foreclosure or other remedies against the borrower. Declines in the value of the property may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our mortgage loan upon foreclosure. We are Subject to Risks and Liabilities in Connection with Properties Owned Through Limited Liability Companies and Partnerships. In prior years, we had ownership interests in limited liability companies 24 and partnerships. We may make additional investments through these ventures in the future. Partnership or limited liability company investments may involve risks such as the following: •our partners or co-members might become bankrupt (in which event we and any other remaining general partners or members would generally remain liable for the liabilities of the partnership or limited liability company); •our partners or co-members might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals; •our partners or co-members may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives, including our policy with respect to maintaining our qualification as a REIT; and •agreements governing limited liability companies and partnerships often contain restrictions on the transfer of a member's or partner's interest or "buy-sell" or other provisions which may result in a purchase or sale of the interest at a disadvantageous time or on disadvantageous terms. We will, however, generally seek to maintain sufficient control of our partnerships and limited liability companies to permit us to achieve our business objectives. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that we may invest in partnerships or limited liability companies. The occurrence of one or more of the events described above could have a direct and adverse impact on us. Risks Associated with Property Development that Can Render a Project Less Profitable or Not Profitable, and, Under Certain Circumstances, Prevent Completion of Development Activities Undertaken. Our business includes development of senior housing and long term care properties. We currently have five parcels of land under development. Ground up development presents additional risk, including but not limited to the following: •a development opportunity may be abandoned after expending significant resources resulting in the loss of deposits or failure to recover expenses already incurred; •the development and construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates due to increased interest rates and higher materials, transportation, labor, leasing or other costs, which could make completion of the development project less profitable; •construction and/or permanent financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all; •the project may not be completed on schedule, which can result in increases in construction costs and debt service expenses as a result of a variety of factors that are beyond our control, including natural disasters, labor conditions, material shortages, regulatory hurdles, civil unrest and acts of war; and •occupancy rates and rents at a newly completed property may not meet expected levels and could be insufficient to make the property profitable. These risks could result in substantial unanticipated delays or expenses and, under certain circumstances, could prevent completion of development activities once undertaken, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes to the Fair Value of Contingent Consideration to be Paid in Connection with Acquisitions May Result in Significant Fluctuations to Our Results to Operations. In connection with acquiring senior housing and long term care properties, we have an established liability of $6.7 million as of December 31, 2012 representing our estimate of the fair value of contingent consideration to be paid (i.e. earn-out). The fair value of such contingent consideration is re-evaluated on a quarterly basis 25 based on changes in our estimate of future operating results and changes in market discount rates. Any changes in our estimated fair value are recognized in our results of operations. Because contingent consideration is generally based on multiples of operating results of the acquired properties during a measurement period, changes to our estimate of projected operating results of the acquired property may have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 26 