Item 1A. Risk Factors - “Restrictions and covenants in Products Corporation's debt agreements limit its ability to take certain actions and impose consequences in the event of failure 15REVLON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIESto comply,” which discusses, among other things, the consequences of noncompliance with Products Corporation's credit agreement covenants).Economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and/or results of operations or on the financial condition of its customers and suppliers.Economic conditions, in the U.S. and/or other countries where the Company operates, have contributed and may continue to contribute to high unemployment levels, lower consumer spending and reduced credit availability, and have impacted and could in the future impact business and consumer confidence. Such conditions could have an impact on consumer purchases and/or customer purchases of the Company's products, which could result in a reduction of net sales, operating income and/or cash flows. Additionally, disruptions in the credit and other financial markets and economic conditions could, among other things, impair the financial condition of one or more of the Company's customers or suppliers, thereby increasing the risk of customer bad debts or non-performance by suppliers. These conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and/or results of operations.The Company depends on a limited number of customers for a large portion of its net sales, and the loss of one or more of these customers could reduce the Company's net sales and have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and/or results of operations.Walmart and its affiliates worldwide accounted for approximately 16%, 20% and 22% of the Company’s worldwide net sales for 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The Company expects that, for future periods, Walmart and a small number of other customers in the Consumer and Professional segments will, in the aggregate, continue to account for a large portion of the Company's net sales. These customers have demanded, and may continue to demand, increased service and other accommodations. The Company may be affected by changes in the policies and demands of its customers relating to service levels, inventory de-stocking, pricing and promotional strategies or limitations on access to wall display space. As is customary in the consumer products industry, none of the Company's customers is under an obligation to continue purchasing products from the Company in the future.The loss of Walmart or one or more of the Company's other customers that may account for a significant portion of the Company's net sales, or any significant decrease in sales to these customers, including as a result of consolidation among the Company's customers, inventory management by the Company's customers, changes in pricing or promotional strategies by the Company's customers or space reconfigurations by the Company's customers or any significant decrease in the Company's display space, could reduce the Company's net sales and/or operating income and therefore could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and/or results of operations.Declines in the financial markets may result in increased pension expense and increased cash contributions to the Company's pension plans.Declines in the U.S. and global financial markets could result in significant declines in the Company's pension plan assets and result in increased pension expense and cash contributions to the Company's pension plans. Interest rate levels will affect the discount rate used to value the Company's year-end pension benefit obligations. One or more of these factors, individually or taken together, could impact future required cash contributions to the Company's pension plans and pension expense. Any one or more of these conditions could reduce the Company's available liquidity, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and/or results of operations.The Company may be unable to maintain or increase its sales through the Company's primary distribution channels, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and/or results of operations.A decrease in consumer demand in the U.S. and internationally for beauty care products, inventory management by the Company's customers, changes in pricing or promotional strategies by the Company's customers (such as the development and/or expansion of their own private label brands), a reduction in display space by the Company's customers and/or a change in consumers’ purchasing habits, such as by buying more cosmetics and beauty care products in channels in which the Company does not currently compete (such as prestige and department stores, television shopping, door-to-door, specialty stores, the internet, perfumeries and other distribution outlets, which combine to account for a significant amount of beauty care sales), could impact sales of the Company's products, which could reduce the Company's net sales and which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and/or results of operations.Competition in the cosmetics, hair and beauty care products business could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The cosmetics, hair and beauty care products business is highly competitive. The Company competes primarily by:•developing quality products with innovative performance features, shades, finishes and packaging;•educating consumers and salon professionals about the benefits of the Company’s products;16REVLON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES•anticipating and responding to changing consumer and salon professional demands in a timely manner, including the timing of new product introductions and line extensions;•offering attractively priced products, relative to the product benefits provided;•maintaining favorable brand recognition;•generating competitive margins and inventory turns for the Company’s customers by providing relevant products and executing effective pricing, incentive and promotion programs;•ensuring product availability through effective planning and replenishment collaboration with the Company's customers;•providing strong and effective advertising, promotion, marketing and merchandising support;•maintaining an effective sales force and distribution network; and•obtaining and retaining sufficient display space, optimal in-store positioning and effective presentation of the Company’s products on-shelf.An increase in or change in the current level of competition that the Company faces could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and/or results of operations.In addition, the Company competes against a number of multi-national manufacturers, some of which are larger and have substantially greater resources than the Company, and which may therefore have the ability to spend more aggressively than the Company on advertising, promotions and marketing and have more flexibility than the Company to respond to changing business and economic conditions. The Company's products also compete with similar products sold through channels other than those in which it competes, including prestige and department stores, television shopping, door-to-door, specialty stores, the internet, perfumeries and other distribution outlets.Additionally, the Company's major customers periodically assess the allocation of display space among competitors and in the course of doing so could elect to reduce the display space allocated to the Company's products, if, for example, the Company's marketing strategies for its new and/or existing products are less effective than planned, fail to effectively reach the targeted consumer base, fail to engender the desired consumption and/or fail to sustain productive levels of consumption dollar share; and/or the rate of purchases by the Company's consumers are not as high as the Company anticipates. Within the Company’s Consumer segment, among the factors used by the Company’s major customers in assessing the allocation of display space is a brand’s share of the color cosmetics category in the U.S. mass retail channel. The Company's color cosmetics brands have experienced, over time, year-over-year share declines in its color cosmetics brands in the U.S. mass retail channel and it is possible that the Company may continue to experience further share declines. Further declines in the Company's share in the U.S. mass retail channel could, among other things, contribute to a loss of display space and/or decreased revenues. Any significant loss of display space could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The Company's foreign operations are subject to a variety of social, political and economic risks and have been, and are expected to continue to be, affected by foreign currency fluctuations, currency controls and/or government-mandated pricing controls, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and/or results of operations and the value of its foreign assets.As of December 31, 2014, the Company had operations based in 24 foreign countries and its products were sold in approximately 150 countries. The Company is exposed to risks associated with social, political and economic conditions, including inflation, inherent in operating in foreign countries, including those in Asia (including Japan), Australia, Eastern Europe, South America (including Venezuela and Argentina) and South Africa, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Such risks arise from laws and policies that govern foreign investment in countries where the Company has operations, hyperinflation, currency devaluation, currency controls, government-mandated pricing controls, currency remittance restrictions, changes in consumer purchasing habits (including as to shopping channels), as well as, to a lesser extent, changes in U.S. laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment.These risks and limitations could affect the ability of the Company's foreign subsidiaries to obtain sufficient capital to conduct their operations in the ordinary course of business. These limitations and the difficulties that certain of the Company's foreign subsidiaries may experience on the free flow of funds to these foreign subsidiaries could restrict the Company's ability to respond timely to challenging market conditions or changes in operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and/or results of operations.Currency restrictions enacted by the Venezuelan government, which began in 2003, have impacted the ability of Revlon Venezuela to obtain U.S. Dollars in exchange for local currency at the official foreign exchange rates. Revlon Venezuela accounted for approximately 1% of the Company's net sales for each of 2014 and 2013 and 2% of the Company's net sales for 2012.17REVLON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIESEffective January 1, 2010, Venezuela was designated as a highly inflationary economy under U.S. GAAP and as a result of that hyperinflationary designation and the devaluation of Venezuela's currency, the Company's results of operations in 2010 were adversely impacted. As a result, through 2012, the Company used alternative foreign currency markets with less favorable exchange rates to access U.S. Dollars for Revlon Venezuela, which also adversely impacted the Company's results of operations. Throughout 2013, the Company imported certain products at a rate of 6.3 Bolivars per U.S. Dollar, which represented the Venezuela foreign exchange commission's Official Rate. In March 2014, a parallel foreign currency exchange system, SICAD II, started functioning which allows companies to apply for the purchase of foreign currency and foreign currency denominated securities for any legal use or purpose. During 2014, SICAD II has had an average transaction rate to the Company of approximately 53 Bolivars per U.S. Dollar (the "SICAD II Rate").Throughout 2014, the Company exchanged Bolivars for U.S. Dollars to the extent permitted through the various foreign currency markets available to the Company based on its ability to participate in those markets. Prior to June 30, 2014, the Company utilized the Official Rate of 6.3 Bolivars per U.S. Dollar. Following a consideration of the Company's specific facts and circumstances, which included its legal ability and intent to participate in the SICAD II exchange market to import finished goods into Venezuela, the Company determined that it was appropriate to utilize the SICAD II Rate of 53 Bolivars per U.S. Dollar to translate Revlon Venezuela’s financial statements beginning on June 30, 2014. As a result, the Company recorded a foreign currency loss of $6.0 million in the second quarter of 2014 related to the required re-measurement of Revlon Venezuela’s monetary assets and liabilities. For the year ended December 31, 2014, the change to the SICAD II Rate of 53 Bolivars per U.S. Dollar, as compared to the 6.3 Official Rate, has had the impact of reducing the Company's consolidated net sales by $16.2 million and reducing the Company's consolidated operating income by $8.4 million. The Company's net sales outside of the U.S. for each of 2014, 2013 and 2012 were approximately 47%, 44% and 43% of the Company's total consolidated net sales, respectively. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the Company's results of operations and the value of the Company's foreign assets in 2015, which in turn could cause a material adverse effect on the Company's reported net sales and earnings and the comparability of period-to-period results of operations.Products Corporation enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge certain net cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. The foreign currency forward exchange contracts are entered into primarily for the purpose of hedging anticipated inventory purchases and certain intercompany payments denominated in foreign currencies and generally have maturities of less than one year. At December 31, 2014, the notional amount of Products Corporation's foreign currency forward exchange contracts was $7.6 million. The foreign currency forward exchange contracts that Products Corporation enters into may not adequately protect against foreign currency fluctuations.Terrorist attacks, acts of war or military actions and/or other civil unrest may adversely affect the territories in which the Company operates and the Company's business, financial condition and/or results of operations. On September 11, 2001, the U.S. was the target of terrorist attacks of unprecedented scope. These attacks contributed to major instability in the U.S. and other financial markets and reduced consumer confidence. These terrorist attacks, as well as terrorist attacks such as those that have occurred in Paris, France, Benghazi, Libya, Madrid, Spain and London, England, attempted terrorist attacks, military responses to terrorist attacks, other military actions and/or civil unrest such as that recently occurring in the Ukraine, Venezuela, Syria, Iraq and surrounding areas, may adversely affect prevailing economic conditions, resulting in work stoppages, reduced consumer spending and/or reduced demand for the Company's products. These developments subject the Company's worldwide operations to increased risks and, depending on their magnitude, could reduce net sales and therefore could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and/or results of operations.The Company's products are subject to federal, state and international regulations that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and/or results of operations.The Company is subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”) and the Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”), in the U.S., as well as various other federal, state, local and foreign regulatory authorities, including those in the European Union, or the EU, Canada and other countries in which the Company operates. The Company's Oxford, North Carolina and Jacksonville, Florida manufacturing facilities are registered with the FDA as drug manufacturing establishments, permitting the manufacture of cosmetics and other beauty-care products that contain over-the-counter drug ingredients, such as sunscreens and anti-perspirant deodorants in the case of the Oxford, North Carolina facility and anti-dandruff hair-care products in the case of the Jacksonville, Florida facility. Regulations in the U.S., the EU, Canada and other countries in which the Company operates that are designed to protect consumers or the environment have an increasing influence on the Company's product claims, ingredients and packaging. To the extent federal, state, local and/or foreign regulatory changes occur in the future, they could require the Company to reformulate or discontinue certain of its products or revise its product packaging or labeling, any of which could result in, among other things, increased costs to the Company, delays in product launches, product returns or recalls and lower net sales, and therefore could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and/or results of operations.18REVLON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIESThe failure of the Company's information technology systems and/or difficulties or delays in implementing new information technology systems could disrupt the Company's business operations which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and/or results of operations.The operation of the Company's business depends on the Company's information technology systems. The Company relies on its information technology systems to effectively manage, among other things, the Company's business data, communications, supply chain, inventory management, customer order entry and order fulfillment, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, human resources benefits and payroll management, compliance with regulatory, legal and tax requirements and other processes and data necessary to manage the Company's business. The failure of the Company's information technology systems, including any failure of the Company's current systems and/or as a result of transitioning to additional or replacement information technology systems, as the case may be, to perform as the Company anticipates could disrupt the Company's business and could result in, among other things, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, loss of data and the loss of sales and customers, which could cause the Company's business, financial condition and/or results of operations to suffer. In addition, the Company's information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond the Company's control, including, without limitation, fire, natural disasters, power outages, systems failure, system conversions, security breaches, cyber-attacks, viruses and/or human error. In any such event, the Company could be required to make a significant investment to fix or replace its information technology systems, and the Company could experience interruptions in its ability to service its customers. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and/or results of operations.The Company is currently implementing a company-wide SAP enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system. The Company's anticipated implementation of this SAP ERP system may not result in improvements that outweigh its costs and may disrupt the Company's operations. This system implementation subjects the Company to substantial costs, the majority of which are capital expenditures, and inherent risks associated with migrating from the Company's legacy systems. These costs and risks could include, but are not limited to: •inability to fill customer orders accurately or on a timely basis, or at all; •inability to process payments to vendors accurately or in a timely manner;•disruption of the Company's internal control structure; •inability to fulfill the Company's SEC or other governmental reporting requirements in a timely or accurate manner;•inability to fulfill federal, state and local tax filing requirements in a timely or accurate manner; •increased demands on management and staff time to the detriment of other corporate initiatives; and •significant capital and operating expenditures. If the Company is unable to successfully plan, design or implement this new SAP ERP system, in whole or in part, or experience unanticipated difficulties or delays in doing so, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and/or results of operations.The illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit versions of the Company’s products or the unauthorized diversion by third parties of the Company’s products could have an adverse effect on the Company’s revenues and a negative impact on the Company’s reputation and business. Third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit versions of the Company’s products. These counterfeit products may be inferior in terms of quality and other characteristics compared to the Company’s authentic products and/or the counterfeit products could pose safety risks that the Company’s authentic products would not otherwise present to consumers. Consumers could confuse counterfeit products with the Company’s authentic products, which could damage or diminish the image, reputation and/or value of the Company’s brands and cause consumers to refrain from purchasing the Company’s products in the future, which could adversely affect the Company’s revenues and have a negative impact on the Company’s reputation. A substantial portion of the products that the Company sells under its Professional segment are sold to professional salon distributors and/or wholesalers. Products sold in these channels are meant to be used exclusively by salons and individual salon professionals or are sold exclusively to the retail consumers of these salons. Despite the Company’s efforts to prevent diversion of such products from these distribution channels, incidents have occurred and continue to occur whereby the Company’s products are sold to sales outlets other than the intended salons and salon professionals, such as to general merchandise retailers or unapproved outlets. In some instances, these diverted products may be old, damaged or otherwise adulterated, which could damage or diminish the image, reputation and/or value of the Company’s brands. In addition, such diversion may result in lower net sales of the Company’s products if consumers choose to purchase diverted products and/or or choose to purchase products manufactured or sold by the Company’s competitors because of any perceived damage or diminishment to the image, reputation and/or value of the Company’s brands. 19REVLON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES The Company believes that its trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights are extremely important to the Company’s success and its competitive position. The Company devotes significant resources to registering and protecting its intellectual property rights and maintaining the positive image of its brands. The Company’s trademark and patent applications may fail to result in issued registrations or provide the scope of coverage sought. Unplanned increases in legal fees and other costs associated with enforcing and/or defending the Company’s trademarks, patents and/or other intellectual property rights could result in higher than expected operating expenses. The Company has been unable to eliminate, and may in the future be unable to eliminate, all counterfeiting activities, unauthorized product diversion and infringement of its trademarks, patents and/or other intellectual property, any of which could adversely affect the Company’s revenues and have a negative impact on the Company’s reputation. The Company’s success largely depends upon its ability to attract, hire and retain its senior management team, other key employees and a highly skilled and diverse workforce, as well as effectively implement succession planning for its senior management team, and, as such, the Company’s inability to do so could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The continued execution of the Company's business strategy largely depends on the Company’s ability to attract, hire and retain its senior management team, other key employees and a highly skilled and diverse workforce, as well as effectively implement succession planning for its senior management team. Unexpected levels of employee turnover or the Company’s failure to maintain an adequate succession plan to effectively transition current management leadership positions and/or the Company’s failure to attract, hire and retain its senior management team, other key employees and a highly skilled and diverse workforce could adversely affect the Company’s institutional knowledge base and/or competitive advantage. If the Company is unable to attract, hire and/or retain talented and highly qualified senior management, other key employees and/or a highly skilled and diverse workforce, or if the Company is unable to effectively provide for the succession of its senior management team, it could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations.Shares of Revlon, Inc. Class A Common Stock and Products Corporation's capital stock are pledged to secure various of Revlon, Inc.'s and/or other of the Company's affiliates’ obligations and foreclosure upon these shares or dispositions of shares could result in the acceleration of debt under Products Corporation's Amended Credit Agreements and Products Corporation's 5¾% Senior Notes Indenture and could have other consequences.All of Products Corporation's shares of common stock are pledged to secure Revlon, Inc.’s guarantee under the Amended Credit Agreements. MacAndrews & Forbes has advised the Company that it has pledged shares of Revlon, Inc.’s Class A Common Stock to secure certain obligations of MacAndrews & Forbes. Additional shares of Revlon, Inc. and shares of common stock of intermediate holding companies between Revlon, Inc. and MacAndrews & Forbes may from time to time be pledged to secure obligations of MacAndrews & Forbes. A default under any of these obligations that are secured by the pledged shares could cause a foreclosure with respect to such shares of Revlon, Inc.'s Class A Common Stock, Products Corporation's common stock or stock of intermediate holding companies between Revlon, Inc. and MacAndrews & Forbes.A foreclosure upon any such shares of common stock or dispositions of shares of Revlon, Inc.’s Class A Common Stock, Products Corporation's common stock or stock of intermediate holding companies between Revlon, Inc. and MacAndrews & Forbes which are beneficially owned by MacAndrews & Forbes could, in a sufficient amount, constitute a “change of control” under the Amended Credit Agreements and the 5¾% Senior Notes Indenture. A change of control constitutes an event of default under the Amended Credit Agreements which would permit Products Corporation's lenders to accelerate amounts outstanding under such facilities. In addition, holders of the 5¾% Senior Notes may require Products Corporation to repurchase their respective 5¾% Senior Notes under those circumstances. Products Corporation may not have sufficient funds at the time of any such change of control to repay in full the borrowings under the Amended Credit Facilities and/or to repurchase or redeem the 5¾% Senior Notes. (See “- The Company's ability to service its debt and meet its cash requirements depends on many factors, including achieving anticipated levels of revenue and expenses. If such revenue or expense levels prove to be other than as anticipated, the Company may be unable to meet its cash requirements or Products Corporation may be unable to meet the requirements of the financial covenants under the Amended Credit Agreements which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and/or results of operations.”)MacAndrews & Forbes has the power to direct and control the Company's business.MacAndrews & Forbes is wholly-owned by Ronald O. Perelman. Mr. Perelman, through MacAndrews & Forbes, beneficially owned approximately 78% of Revlon, Inc.'s outstanding Class A Common Stock on December 31, 2014. As a result, MacAndrews & Forbes is able to control the election of the entire Board of Directors of Revlon, Inc. and of Products Corporation's Board of Directors (as it is a wholly owned subsidiary of Revlon, Inc.) and controls the vote on all matters submitted to a vote of Revlon, Inc.’s and Products Corporation's stockholders, including the approval of mergers, consolidations, sales of some, substantially all or all of the Company's assets, issuances of capital stock and similar transactions.20REVLON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIESThe Company may not be able to efficiently integrate Colomer into the Company’s ongoing business operations, which may result in the Company’s inability to fully realize the intended benefits of the Colomer Acquisition, or may disrupt the Company's current operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position and/or results of operations. The Company is in the process of integrating the operations of Colomer into the Company’s business and expects to achieve approximately $30.0 million to $35.0 million of annualized cost reductions by the end of 2015, at a cost of approximately $50.0 million in the aggregate through 2015. The ongoing process of continuing to integrate Colomer into the Company's business involves complex operational, technological and personnel-related challenges, which are time-consuming and expensive and may disrupt the Company's ongoing core business operations. These integration activities involve a number of risks, including, but not limited to:•difficulties or complications in combining the companies' operations;•differences in controls, procedures and policies, regulatory standards and business cultures among the combined companies;•the diversion of management's attention from the Company's ongoing core business operations;•difficulties or delays in consolidating Colomer’s information technology platforms, including implementing systems designed to continue to ensure that the Company maintains effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting for the combined company and enable the Company to continue to comply with U.S. GAAP and applicable U.S. securities laws and regulations;•possible disruptions that could result from efforts to consolidate the combined Company’s manufacturing facilities or changes in the combined Company’s supply chain, including work stoppages;•unanticipated costs and other assumed contingent liabilities; and/or•possible tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the combined company.These factors could cause the Company to not fully realize the anticipated financial and/or strategic benefits of the Colomer Acquisition, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.21REVLON, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES