ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information in this Form 10-K, including the risk factors listed below. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not now known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any circumstances discussed in these risks actually occur or occur again, our business could be materially harmed. If our business is harmed, the trading price of our common stock could decline. This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We undertake no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this Form 10-K. Our Operating Results Could Fluctuate Significantly from Quarter to Quarter. Our operating results for a particular quarter are extremely difficult to predict. Our revenue and operating results could fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter and from year to year. This could result from any one or a combination of factors such as: • the cancellation or postponement of orders; • the timing and amount of significant orders; • our success in developing, introducing and shipping product enhancements and new products; • the mix of products we sell; • software, hardware or other errors in the products we sell requiring replacements or increased warranty reserves; • our annual reviews of goodwill and other intangibles that lead to impairment charges; • new product introductions by our competitors; • the timing of delivery and availability of components from suppliers; • readiness of customer sites for installation; • political stability in the areas of the world in which we operate in; • changes in material costs; • currency fluctuations; • changes in accounting rules; and • general economic conditions as well as changes in such conditions specific to our market segments. 12 Table of Contents Moreover, the volume and timing of orders we receive during a quarter are difficult to forecast. From time to time, our customers encounter uncertain and changing demand for their products. Customers generally order based on their forecasts. If demand falls below these forecasts or if customers do not control inventories effectively, they may cancel or reschedule shipments previously ordered from us. Our expense levels during any particular period are based, in part, on expectations of future sales. If sales in a particular quarter do not meet expectations, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our success is dependent, in part, on the overall growth rate of the fiber optic components and networking industry. The Internet, or the industries that serve it, may not continue to grow, and even if it does or they do, we may not achieve increased growth. Our business, operating results or financial condition may be adversely affected by any decreases in industry growth rates. In addition, we can give no assurance that our results in any particular period will fall within the ranges for growth forecast by market researchers or securities analysts. Because of these and other factors, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. It is possible that, in future periods, our results of operations will be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. This failure to meet expectations could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Similarly, the failure by our competitors or customers to meet or exceed the results expected by their analysts or investors could have a ripple effect on us and cause our stock price to decline. Our Gross Margin May Fluctuate from Period to Period and Our Gross Margins for Optical Components and/or Networking Equipment May Be Adversely Affected by a Number Of Factors. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, our gross margins from our two principal operating segments and for our company as a whole: For the year ended December 31: 2006 2005 2004 Networking group 35 % 36 % 38 % Optical components group 19 % 11 % 14 % Total 31 % 32 % 34 % Our gross margins also fluctuate from quarter to quarter within a year and from year-to-year. These yearly and quarterly fluctuations in our margins have been affected, often adversely, and may continue to be affected, by numerous factors, including: • increased price competition, including competition from low-cost producers in Asia; • price reductions that we make, such as marketing decisions that we have made in the past to reduce the price for our optical components to certain customers in an effort to secure long-term leadership in the market for FTTP components; • decreases in average selling prices of our products which, in addition to competitive factors and pressures from, or accommodations made to, significant customers, result from factors such as overcapacity and the introduction of new and more technologically advanced products in the case of optical components and excess inventories, increased sales discounts and new product introductions in the case of networking equipment; • the mix in any period or year of higher and lower margin products and services; • sales volume during a particular period or year; • charges for excess or obsolete inventory; 13 Table of Contents • changes in the prices or the availability of components needed to manufacture our products; • the relative success of our efforts to reduce product manufacturing costs, such as the transition of our optical component manufacturing to our Taiwan facility or to low-cost third party manufacturers in China; • our introduction of new products, with initial sales at relatively small volumes with resulting higher production costs; and • increased warranty or repair costs. We expect gross margins generally and for specific products to continue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year. One Customer Accounted for over 10 percent of Our Sales During the Three and Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2006, Increasing Both Our Dependence on a Single Revenue Source and the Risk that Our Operations Will Suffer Materially If the Customer Stopped Ordering from Us or Substantially Reduced Its Business With Us. For the last several years and for the interim periods within those years, no customer has accounted for 10 percent or more of our revenues and accordingly we were not dependent on any single customer. For the year ended December 31, 2006, however, we had one customer, Verizon Communications Inc., which, through its original equipment manufacturers, accounted for 13% of our total revenues. While our financial performance during this year benefited from the increased sales to that customer, because of the magnitude of our sales to that customer, our results would suffer if we lost that customer or it made a substantial reduction in orders unless we were able to replace the customer or orders with one or more of comparable size. In addition, our sales are made on credit and our results of operations would be adversely affected if this customer were to experience unexpected financial reversals resulting in it being unable to pay for our products. Our Markets Are Subject to Rapid Technological Change, and to Compete Effectively, We Must Continually Introduce New Products That Achieve Market Acceptance. The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. We expect that new technologies will emerge as competition and the need for higher and more cost effective transmission capacity, or bandwidth, increases. Our future performance will depend on the successful development, introduction and market acceptance of new and enhanced products that address these changes as well as current and potential customer requirements. The introduction of new and enhanced products may cause our customers to defer or cancel orders for existing products. We have in the past experienced delays in product development and these delays may occur in the future. Therefore, to the extent that customers defer or cancel orders in the expectation of a new product release or there is any delay in development or introduction of our new products or enhancements of our products, our operating results would suffer. We also may not be able to develop the underlying core technologies necessary to create new products and enhancements, or to license these technologies from third parties. Product development delays may result from numerous factors, including: • changing product specifications and customer requirements; • difficulties in hiring and retaining necessary technical personnel; • difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations; • difficulties with contract manufacturers; • changing market or competitive product requirements; and 14 Table of Contents • unanticipated engineering complexities. The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and highly skilled engineering and development personnel, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. In order to compete, we must be able to deliver to customers products that are highly reliable, operate with its existing equipment, lower the customer’s costs of acquisition, installation and maintenance and provide an overall cost-effective solution. We may not be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products successfully, if at all, or on a timely basis. Further, our new products may not gain market acceptance or we may not be able to respond effectively to product announcements by competitors, technological changes or emerging industry standards. Our failure to respond effectively to technological changes would significantly harm our business. Defects In Our Products Resulting from Their Complexity Or Otherwise Could Hurt Our Financial Performance. Complex products, such as those we offer, may contain undetected software or hardware errors when we first introduce them or when we release new versions. The occurrence of these errors in the future, and our inability to correct these errors quickly or at all, could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products. It could also result in material warranty expense, diversion of engineering and other resources from our product development efforts and the loss of credibility with, and legal actions by, our customers, system integrators and end users. Any of these or other eventualities resulting from defects in our products could cause our sales to decline and have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The Long Sales Cycles for Our Products May Cause Revenues and Operating Results to Vary from Quarter to Quarter, Which Could Cause Volatility In Our Stock Price. The timing of our revenue is difficult to predict because of the length and variability of the sales and implementation cycles for our products. We do not recognize revenue until a product has been shipped to a customer, all significant vendor obligations have been performed and collection is considered probable. Customers often view the purchase of our products as a significant and strategic decision. As a result, customers typically expend significant effort in evaluating, testing and qualifying our products and our manufacturing process. This customer evaluation and qualification process frequently results in a lengthy initial sales cycle of, depending on the products, many months or more. In addition, some of our customers require that our products be subjected to lifetime and reliability testing, which also can take months or more. While our customers are evaluating our products and before they place an order with us, we may incur substantial sales and marketing and research and development expenses to customize our products to the customer’s needs. We may also expend significant management efforts, increase manufacturing capacity and order long lead-time components or materials prior to receiving an order. Even after this evaluation process, a potential customer may not purchase our products. Even after acceptance of orders, our customers often change the scheduled delivery dates of their orders. Because of the evolving nature of the optical networking and network infrastructure markets, we cannot predict the length of these sales, development or delivery cycles. As a result, these long sales cycles may cause our net sales and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter-to-quarter, which could cause volatility in our stock price. Our Business Has Been Adversely Impacted By the Worldwide Economic Slowdown and Related Uncertainties. Weaker economic conditions worldwide, particularly in the U.S. and Europe, have contributed to the current technology industry slowdown compared to levels before 2000 and impacted our business resulting in: • reduced demand for our products, particularly fiber optic components; • increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories; 15 Table of Contents • increased price competition for our products; • excess manufacturing capacity under current market conditions; and • higher overhead costs, as a percentage of revenues. We reported losses for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 and have not achieved profitability for a full year since 1997. We anticipate continuing to incur significant sales and marketing, product development and general and administrative expenses and, as a result, we will continue to need to contain expense levels and increase revenue levels to continue to achieve profitability in future fiscal quarters. Cost Containment Is Critical to Achieving Positive Cash Flow from Operations and Profitability Consistently. We are continuing efforts at strict cost containment and believe that such efforts are essential to achieving positive cash flow from operations in future quarters and maintaining profitability on a consistent basis, especially since the outlook for future quarters is subject to numerous challenges. Additional measures to contain costs and reduce expenses may be undertaken if revenues do not continue to improve. A number of factors could preclude us from consistently bringing costs and expenses in line with our revenues, such as our inability to forecast business activities and the deterioration of our revenues accurately. If we are not able to maintain an expense structure commensurate with our business activities and revenues, we may have inadequate levels of cash for operations or for capital requirements, which could significantly harm our ability to operate the business. Our Business and Future Operating Results Are Subject to a Wide Range of Uncertainties Arising Out of the Continuing Threat of Terrorist Attacks and Ongoing Military Action In the Middle East. Like other U.S. companies, our business and operating results are subject to uncertainties arising out of the continuing threat of terrorist attacks on the United States and ongoing military action in the Middle East, including the potential worsening or extension of the current global economic slowdown, the economic consequences of the war in Iraq or additional terrorist activities and associated political instability, and the impact of heightened security concerns on domestic and international travel and commerce. In particular, due to these uncertainties, we are subject to: • increased risks related to the operations of our manufacturing facilities in China; • greater risks of disruption in the operations of our Asian contract manufacturers and more frequent instances of shipping delays; and • the risk that future tightening of immigration controls may adversely affect the residence status of non-U.S. engineers and other key technical and other employees in our U.S. facilities or our ability to hire new non-U.S. employees in such facilities. We Face Risks in Reselling the Products of Other Companies. We distribute products manufactured by other companies. To the extent we succeed in reselling the products of these companies, or products of other vendors with which we may enter into similar arrangements, we may be required by customers to assume warranty and service obligations. While these suppliers have agreed to support us with respect to those obligations, if they should be unable, for any reason, to provide the required support, we may have to expend our own resources on doing so. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that the equipment has been designed and manufactured by others, and is thus subject to warranty claims, the magnitude of which we are currently unable to evaluate fully. 16 Table of Contents Our 2003 Notes Provide for Various Events of Default That Would Entitle the Holder to Require Us to Repay Upon its Demand the Outstanding Principal Amount, Plus Accrued and Unpaid Interest. If We Complete the Acquisition of Fiberxon Without Waivers from the Holder We Will be in Default. On June 4, 2003, we completed the sale of $23 million principal amount of 2003 Notes to Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch in a private placement pursuant to Regulation D under the Securities Act of 1933. The 2003 Notes mature in June 2008. We will be considered in default of the 2003 Notes if any of the following events, among others, occur: • our default in payment of any principal amount of, interest on or other amount due under the 2003 Notes when and as due; • the effectiveness of the registration statement, which registered for resale the shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the 2003 Notes, lapses for any reason or is unavailable to the holder of the 2003 Notes for resale of all of the shares issuable upon conversion, other than during allowable grace periods, for a period of five consecutive trading days or for more than an aggregate of ten trading days in any 365-day period; • the suspension from trading or failure of our common stock to be listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market for a period of five consecutive trading days or for more than an aggregate of ten trading days in any 365-day period; • we or our transfer agent notify any holder of our intention not to issue shares of our common stock to the holder upon receipt of any conversion notice delivered in respect of a Note by the holder; • we fail to deliver shares of our common stock to the holder within twelve business days of the conversion date specified in any conversion notice delivered in respect of a Note by the holder; • we breach any material representation, warranty, covenant or other term or condition of the 2003 Notes or the Securities Purchase Agreement, or the Registration Rights Agreement relating to 2003 Notes and the breach, if curable, is not cured by us within ten days; • failure by us for ten days after notice to comply with any other provision of the 2003 Notes in all material respects, which include abiding by our covenants not to: O incur any form of unsecured indebtedness in excess of $17.0 million, plus obligations arising from accounts receivable financing transactions with recourse through our foreign offices, in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practices; O repurchase our common stock for an aggregate amount in excess of $5.0 million; pursuant to a stock purchase program that was approved by our Board of Directors and publicly announced on June 13, 2002; or O declare or pay any dividend on any of our capital stock, other than dividends of common stock with respect to our common stock; • we breach provisions of the 2003 Notes prohibiting us from either issuing: O our common stock or securities that are convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of our common at a per share price less than the conversion price per share of the 2003 Notes then in effect, except in certain limited cases; or O securities that are convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of our common stock at a price that varies or may vary with the market price of our common stock; 17 Table of Contents • we breach any of our obligations under any other debt or credit agreements involving an amount exceeding $3,000,000; or • we become bankrupt or insolvent. If an event of default occurs, any holder of the 2003 Notes can elect to require us to pay the outstanding principal amount, together with all accrued and unpaid interest. Some of the events of default include matters over which we may have some, little or no control. If a default occurs and we do not pay the amounts payable under the 2003 Notes in cash (including any interest on such amounts and any applicable default interest under the 2003 Notes), the holders of the 2003 Notes may protect and enforce their rights or remedies either by suit in equity or by action at law, or both, whether for the specific performance of any covenant, agreement or other provision contained in the 2003 Notes. Any default under the 2003 Notes could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition or on the market price of our common stock. As a result of obligations we have agreed to undertake in connection with our acquisition of Fiberxon, we must obtain waivers from the holder of our 2003 Notes of various covenants, including the covenant restricting our ability to incur any indebtedness in excess of $17.0 million plus obligations arising from accounts receivable financing transactions with recourse through our foreign offices, in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practices. Although we have discussed with the holder our need for waivers in order to consummate the acquisition without causing a default to occur, such discussions have been preliminary and informal and we have not yet received the necessary waivers. There can be no assurance that the holder will actually provide the waivers on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and our inability or failure to obtain them will result in a default in the 2003 Notes, entitling the Holder to demand payment of principal and interest due on the Notes immediately following consummation of the acquisition. In the Event of a Change of Control, Holders of the 2003 Notes Have the Option to Require Immediate Repayment of the 2003 Notes At a Premium and This Right Could Prevent a Takeover Otherwise Favored By Stockholders. In the event of our “Change of Control,” which essentially means someone acquiring or merging with us, each holder of 2003 Notes has the right to require us to redeem the 2003 Notes in whole or in part at a redemption price of 105% of the principal amount of the 2003 Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest or if the amount is greater, an amount equal to the number of shares issuable upon conversion of the 2003 Notes based on the conversion price at the date the holder gives us notice of redemption, multiplied by the average of the weighted average prices of our common stock during the five days immediately proceeding that date. If a Change of Control were to occur, we might not have the financial resources or be able to arrange financing on acceptable terms to pay the redemption price for all the 2003 Notes as to which the purchase right is exercised. Further, the existence of this right in favor of the holders may discourage or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. Sales Of Substantial Amounts Of Our Shares By Selling Stockholders Could Cause The Market Price Of Our Shares To Decline. Under a registration statement that the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, declared effective in 2003, selling stockholders are offering for resale up to 9,913,914 shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of our 2003 Notes. This represents approximately 7.9% of the outstanding shares of our common stock on February 15, 2007 (or 7.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock on that date if pro forma effect were given to the full conversion of the 2003 Notes). 18 Table of Contents Under a registration statement that the SEC declared effective in April 2006, selling stockholders are offering and have been selling an additional 19,858,156 shares of our common stock. That represents approximately 15.8% of the outstanding shares of our common stock on February 15, 2007, (or 14.6% of the outstanding shares of our common stock on that date if pro forma effect were given to the full conversion of the 2003 Notes) and, when added to the shares being offered by the selling stockholders under our 2003 registration statement, approximately 23.7% of the outstanding shares of our common stock on February 15, 2007 (or 21.9% of the outstanding shares of our common stock on that date if pro forma effect were given to the full conversion of our 2003 Notes). If our pending acquisition of Fiberxon is consummated as anticipated during the first half of 2007, we have agreed to issue to Fiberxon’s stockholders and employees an aggregate of up to 21,188,630 shares of our common stock, including shares underlying Fiberxon’s employee options that we have agreed to assume for options to purchase shares of our common stock. This represents approximately 16.8% of the outstanding shares of our common stock on February 15, 2007 (or 15.6% of the outstanding shares of our common stock on that date if pro forma effect were given on that date to the full conversion of our 2003 Notes). The exemption from the registration provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 upon which we are planning to rely for the offer and sales of our shares to consummate the acquisition of Fiberxon is Section 3(a)(10) of the Securities Act, which will require the California Department of Corporations to determine that the acquisition is fair pursuant to a hearing before that agency which we are scheduling. If the California Department of Corporations does make a positive determination of fairness, the shares we issue to Fiberxon’s stockholders upon completion of the transaction will generally be eligible for sale in the open market. The shares issuable to Fiberxon’s stockholders if we successfully complete that acquisition, when added to the shares being offered by the selling stockholders under our 2003 and 2006 registration statements, amount to an aggregate of approximately 40.5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock on February 15, 2007 (or 37.6% of the outstanding shares of our common stock on that date if pro forma effect were given to the full conversion of the 2003 Notes). Sales of substantial amounts of these shares at any one time or from time to time, or even the availability of these shares for sale, could adversely affect the market price of our shares. The information presented in this risk factor has been calculated assuming that none of the shares covered by our 2006 registration statement have yet been sold (which may not be the case) and that all shares issuable upon consummation of the Fiberxon acquisition are issued at the closing of that transaction. In fact, shares issuable upon exercise of Fiberxon’s options that are outstanding at the closing will be subtracted from the shares we are otherwise required to issue to Fiberxon’s stockholders at the closing. Our Ability to Utilize Our NOLs and Certain Other Tax Attributes May Be Limited. As of December 31, 2006, we had net operating losses, or NOLs, of approximately $171.8 million for federal income tax purposes and approximately $214.4 million for state income tax purposes. We also had capital loss carryforwards totaling $262.0 million as of December 31, 2006, which begin to expire in 2007. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, if a corporation undergoes an “ownership change,” the corporation’s ability to use its pre-change NOLs, capital loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income may be limited. An ownership change is generally defined as a greater than 50% change in its equity ownership by value over a three-year period. We may experience an ownership change in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership, including as a result of our contemplated issuance of shares pursuant to the Fiberxon transaction. If we were to trigger an ownership change in the future, our ability to use any NOLs and capital loss carryforwards existing at that time could be limited. 19 Table of Contents The Price of Our Shares May Continue to Be Highly Volatile. Historically, the market price of our shares has been extremely volatile. The market price of our common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be significantly affected by factors such as: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • announcements of technological innovations or new product introductions by us or our competitors; • the progress or lack thereof of our closing of the acquisition of Fiberxon; • changes of estimates of our future operating results by securities analysts; • developments with respect to patents, copyrights or proprietary rights; • sales of substantial numbers of our shares by stockholders covered by our existing shelf registration statements or by stockholders receiving our shares if our acquisition of Fiberxon is successfully consummated; or • general market conditions and other factors. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for shares of the common stocks of technology companies in particular, and that have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. Similarly, the failure by our competitors or customers to meet or exceed the results expected by their analysts or investors could have a ripple effect on us and cause our stock price to decline. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been granted stock options. We Face Risks from Our International Operations. International sales have become an increasingly important part of our operations. The following table sets forth the percentage of our total revenues from sales to customers in foreign countries for the periods identified: Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Percentage of total revenue from foreign sales 67 % 74 % 77 % We have offices in, and conduct a significant portion of our operations in and from Israel. Similarly, some of our development stage enterprises are located in Israel. We are, therefore, influenced by the political and economic conditions affecting Israel. Any major hostilities involving Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners or a substantial downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Risks we face due to international sales and the use of overseas manufacturing include: • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; • the impact of recessions in economies outside the United States; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; 20 Table of Contents • seasonal reductions in business activities in some parts of the world, such as during the summer months in Europe or in the winter months in Asia when the Chinese New Year is celebrated; • difficulties in managing operations across disparate geographic areas; • difficulties associated with enforcing agreements through foreign legal systems; • the payment of operating expenses in local currencies, which exposes us to risks of currency fluctuations; • higher credit risks requiring cash in advance or letters of credit; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • unanticipated cost increases; • unavailability or late delivery of equipment; • trade restrictions; • limited protection of intellectual property rights; • unforeseen environmental or engineering problems; and • personnel recruitment delays. The majority of our sales are currently denominated in U.S. dollars. As we conduct business in several different countries, we have recently benefited from sales made in currencies other than the U.S. dollar because of the weakness of the U.S. dollar in relation to the currencies in which these sales have been made. However, if this trend ceases or reverses, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could cause our products to become relatively more expensive in particular countries, leading to a reduction in sales in that country. In addition, inflation or fluctuations in currency exchange rates in these countries could increase our expenses and thereby adversely affect our operating results. Through one of our foreign subsidiaries, we have entered into foreign exchange and interest rate swap contracts to protect against currency exchange risks related to purchase commitments denominated in foreign currencies other than their functional currency, primarily the U.S. dollar and to hedge exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Net unrealized gains from these activities during the year ended December 31, 2006 amounted to $161,000 and net unrealized losses from these activities during the year ended December 31, 2005 amounted to $926,000 and we could incur losses from these or other hedging activities in the future. 21 Table of Contents We Have Been Transitioning Volume Manufacturing of Our Optical Components to Taiwan and China and We Expect This to Increase, Especially If Our Acquisition of Fiberxon is Successfully Consummated, Which Exposes Us, and Will Expose Us Even More, to Risks Inherent in Doing Business in China. In order to seek to improve our gross margins in our optical components business, over the past few years we have been transitioning volume manufacturing of optical components to our facility in Taiwan and to third-party contract manufacturers in China. Luminent has a minority interest in a large manufacturing facility in the PRC in which it manufactures passive fiber optic components and both Luminent and we make sales of our products in the PRC. If we successfully consummate the acquisition of Fiberxon, which has all of its principal manufacturing facilities in China, our operations in China will increase substantially. We may determine to transfer some or all of the component manufacturing that we have been outsourcing to third-party electronic manufacturing service providers to Fiberxon’s manufacturing facilities in China. If we do, we may experience delays, disruption or quality problems in the manufacturing operations of Fiberxon, especially during the initial startup of manufacturing with it. As a result, we could incur additional costs that would adversely affect gross margins, and product shipments to our customers could be delayed beyond requested shipment schedules, which could adversely affect our revenues, competitive position and reputation. The political tension between Taiwan and the PRC that continues to exist, could eventually lead to hostilities or there may be regulatory issues with either the PRC or Taiwan as a result of our having operations or business interests in both countries. As our operations in China assume a larger and more important role in our business, the risks inherent in doing business in China will become more acute. Many of these risks are beyond our control, including: • difficulties in obtaining domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; • compliance with PRC laws, including employment laws; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including cultural differences in the conduct of business, labor and other workforce requirements and inadequate local infrastructure; • the need to successfully migrate the PRC locations to the financial reporting system used by us in the United States, including the need to implement and maintain financial controls that comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; • trade restrictions or higher tariffs; • transportation delays and difficulties of managing international distribution channels; • longer payment cycles for, and greater difficulty collecting, accounts receivable; • difficulties in collecting payments from PRC customers to whom we or Fiberxon have extended significant amounts of credit if those customers do not pay on the payment terms extended to them; • currency exchange rate fluctuations of the RMB, which has been appreciating in relation to the U.S. dollar since July 2005 when the People’s Bank of China announced that the yuan would no longer be pegged to the U.S. dollar; that may increase our manufacturing and labor costs in the PRC when translated to U.S. dollars and render prices on our products manufactured in China uncompetitive, adversely affecting our sales or gross margins, or both, and 22 Table of Contents • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, royalties and withholding taxes that restrict or make more costly the repatriation of earnings generated by Fiberxon’s operations in the PRC or influence the effective income tax rate attributable to profits generated or lost in the PRC. Any of these factors could harm our future sales and operations significantly. Our Manufacturing Capacity May be Interrupted, Limited or Delayed If We Cannot Maintain Sufficient Sources of Electricity in China, or If There is a Natural Disaster or Other Catastrophic Event in China. The manufacturing process for optical component manufacturing requires a substantial and stable source of electricity. As our production capabilities increase in China, our requirements for electricity in China will grow substantially. Many companies with operations in China have experienced a lack of sufficient electricity supply and we cannot be assured that electric power generators that we or Fiberxon may have available will produce sufficient electricity supply in the event of a disruption in power. Power interruptions, electricity shortages, the cost of fuel to run power generators or government intervention, particularly in the form of rationing, are factors that could restrict access to electricity to Fiberxon’s PRC manufacturing facilities, and adversely affect manufacturing costs. If we successfully acquire Fiberxon, any such power shortages could result in delays in shipments to Fiberxon’s or our customers and, potentially, the loss of customer orders and penalties from such customers for the delay. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events, including wildfires and other fires, earthquakes, excessive rain, terrorist attacks and wars, could disrupt manufacturing ability or capacity, which could harm our operations and financial results. China’s Legal System Embodies Uncertainties That Could Harm Our Business Operations. Since 1979, many new laws and regulations and government policies covering general economic matters have been implemented in China. Despite the development of the legal system, China’s system of laws is not yet complete. Even where adequate law exists in China, enforcement of contracts based on existing law may be uncertain and sporadic, and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of another jurisdiction. The relative inexperience of China’s judiciary in many cases creates additional uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. In addition, interpretation of statutes and regulations may be subject to government policies reflecting domestic political changes. As our activities in China increase, we will be subject to administrative review and approval by various national and local agencies of China’s government. Given the changes occurring in China’s legal and regulatory structure, we may not be able to secure the requisite governmental approval for our activities. Failure to obtain the requisite governmental approval for any of our activities could impede our ability to operate our business or increase our expenses. We May Not Address Successfully Problems Encountered in Connection With Our Acquisition of Fiberxon, If Successfully Consummated, or Any Other Acquisition on Which We May Embark. As we have in connection with our pending acquisition of Fiberxon, we expect to continue to consider opportunities to acquire or make investments in other technologies, products and businesses that could enhance our capabilities, complement or augment our current products or expand the breadth and geography of our markets or customer base. We have limited experience in acquiring other businesses and technologies. The acquisition of Fiberxon, if successfully completed, and other potential acquisitions we may make, involve numerous risks, including: 23 Table of Contents • problems assimilating the purchased technologies, products or business operations, including the timely integration of financial reporting systems particularly if, like in the case of Fiberxon if our acquisition is successfully completed, we acquire companies in countries where English is not widely spoken, the culture and political, economic, financial or monetary systems, principles or controls are different from those of the U.S., Taiwan, Israel or countries in Europe where we currently have offices or significant operations; • problems maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies; • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; • start-up costs associated with any new business or product line we may acquire; • possible charges to operations for purchased technology and restructuring; • incurrence of amortization expenses and impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets and deferred stock expense; • incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; • problems, and adverse effects on our existing businesses of, providing funds or financing to support the operations of the acquired business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers or on relations with our existing employees; • risks associated with entering new markets, such as those in China, in which we have no or limited prior experience; • potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses and difficulties recruiting adequate replacements; • the need to hire additional employees to operate the acquired business effectively, including employees with specialized knowledge or language skills; and • potential litigation risks associated with acquisitions, whether completed or not; • dilutive issuances of our equity securities; and • increased legal and accounting costs as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions properly, our management team may be distracted or their attention diverted from our core businesses and their day-to-day operations, disrupting our business and adversely affecting our operating results. We can give no assurance as to whether we can successfully integrate Fiberxon if that acquisition is successfully completed or integrate other companies, products, technologies or personnel of any business that we might acquire in the future. Moreover, there are significant conditions that need to be satisfied to complete the acquisition of Fiberxon, the failure of which could result in termination of the transaction prior to closing. Our efforts to acquire Fiberxon has resulted and will result, and our efforts to pursue other acquisitions could result, in substantial expenses and could adversely affect our operating results if our acquisition of Fiberxon is not, or other acquisitions that we may pursue are not, successfully consummated. 24 Table of Contents We Currently Depend On Third-Party Contract Manufacturers and Therefore Could Face Delays Harming Our Sales. We outsource the board-level assembly, test and quality control of material, components, subassemblies and systems relating to our networking products to third-party contract manufacturers. Though there are a large number of contract manufacturers that we can use for outsourcing, we have elected to use a limited number of vendors for a significant portion of our board assembly requirements in order to foster consistency in quality of the products and to achieve economies of scale. These independent third-party manufacturers also provide the same services to other companies. Risks associated with the use of independent manufacturers include unavailability of or delays in obtaining adequate supplies of products and reduced control of manufacturing quality and production costs. If our contract manufacturers failed to deliver needed components timely, we could face difficulty in obtaining adequate supplies of products from other sources in the near term. Our third party manufacturers may not provide us with adequate supplies of quality products on a timely basis, or at all. While we could outsource with other vendors, a change in vendors may require significant lead-time and may result in shipment delays and expenses. Our inability to obtain these products on a timely basis, the loss of a vendor or a change in the terms and conditions of the outsourcing would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We May Lose Sales If Suppliers of Other Critical Components Fail to Meet Our Needs. Our companies currently purchase several key components used in the manufacture of our products from single or limited sources. We depend on these sources to meet our needs. Moreover, we depend on the quality of the products supplied to us over which we have limited control. We have encountered shortages and delays in obtaining components in the past and expect to encounter shortages and delays in the future. If we cannot supply products due to a lack of components, or are unable to redesign products with other components in a timely manner, our business will be significantly harmed. We have no long-term or short-term contracts for any of our components. As a result, a supplier can discontinue supplying components to us without penalty. If a supplier discontinued supplying a component, our business may be harmed by the resulting product manufacturing and delivery delays. We May Suffer Losses as a Result of Entering into Fixed Price Contracts. From time to time we enter into contracts with certain customers where the price we charge for particular products is fixed. Although our estimated production costs for these products is used to compute the fixed price for sale, if our actual production cost exceeds the estimated production cost due to our inability to obtain needed components timely or at all or for other reasons, we may incur a loss on the sale. Sales of material amounts of products on a fixed price basis where we have not accurately predicted the production costs could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Our Inability to Achieve Adequate Production Yields for Certain Components We Manufacture Internally Could Result In a Loss of Sales and Customers. We rely heavily on our own production capability for critical semiconductor lasers and light emitting diodes used in our products. Because we manufacture these and other key components at our own facilities and these components are not readily available from other sources, any interruption of our manufacturing processes could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Furthermore, we have a limited number of employees dedicated to the operation and maintenance of our wafer fabrication equipment, the loss of any of whom could result in our inability to effectively operate and service this equipment. Wafer fabrication is sensitive to many factors, including variations and impurities in the raw materials, the fabrication process, performance of the manufacturing equipment, defects in the masks used to print circuits on the wafer and the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment. We may not be able to maintain acceptable production yields or avoid product shipment delays. In the event adequate production yields are not achieved, resulting in product shipment delays, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents If We Fail to Protect Our Intellectual Property, We May Not Be Able to Compete. We rely on a combination of trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure and patents, copyrights and trademarks to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that our pending patent applications will be approved, that any patents that may be issued will protect our intellectual property or that third parties will not challenge any issued patents. Other parties may independently develop similar or competing technology or design around any patents that may be issued to us. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Any of this kind of litigation, regardless of outcome, could be expensive and time consuming, and adverse determinations in any of this kind of litigation could seriously harm our business. We Could In the Future Become Subject to Litigation Regarding Intellectual Property Rights, Which Could Be Costly and Subject Us to Significant Liability. From time to time, third parties, including our competitors, may assert patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us. Over the years, we have received notices from third parties alleging possible infringement of patents with respect to certain features of our products or our manufacturing processes and in connection with these notices have been involved in discussions with the claimants, including IBM, Lucent, Ortel, Nortel, Rockwell, the Lemelson Foundation, Finisar and Apcon. To date, our aggregate revenues potentially subject to the foregoing claims have not been material. However, these or other companies may pursue litigation with respect to these or other claims. The results of any litigation are inherently uncertain. In the event of an adverse result in any litigation with respect to intellectual property rights relevant to our products that could arise in the future, we could be required to obtain licenses to the infringing technology, to pay substantial damages under applicable law, to cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products or to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology. Licenses may not be available from third parties either on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, litigation frequently involves substantial expenditures and can require significant management attention, even if we ultimately prevail. Accordingly, any infringement claim or litigation against us could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In the Future, We May Initiate Claims Or Litigation Against Third Parties for Infringement of Our Proprietary Rights to Protect These Rights Or to Determine the Scope and Validity of Our Proprietary Rights Or the Proprietary Rights Of Competitors. These Claims Could Result In Costly Litigation and the Diversion of Our Technical and Management Personnel. Necessary licenses of third-party technology may not be available to us or may be very expensive, which could adversely affect our ability to manufacture and sell our products. From time to time we may be required to license technology from third parties to develop new products or product enhancements. We cannot assure you that third-party licenses will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The inability to obtain any third-party license required to develop new products and product enhancements could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost, either of which could seriously harm our ability to manufacture and sell our products. We Are Dependent On Certain Members of Our Senior Management. We are substantially dependent upon Dr. Shlomo Margalit, our Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Technical Officer and Secretary, and Mr. Noam Lotan, our President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of either of these officers could have a material adverse effect on us. We have entered into employment agreements with Dr. Margalit and Mr. Lotan and are the beneficiary of a key man life insurance policy in the amount of $1.0 million on Mr. Lotan’s life. However, we can give no assurance that the proceeds from this policy will be sufficient to compensate us in the event of the death of Mr. Lotan, and the policy is not applicable in the event that he becomes disabled or is otherwise unable to render services to us. We no longer maintain a key man life insurance policy on Dr. Margalit. 26 Table of Contents Our Business Requires Us to Attract and Retain Qualified Personnel. Our ability to develop, manufacture and market our products, run our operations and our ability to compete with our current and future competitors depends, and will depend, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Competition for executives and qualified personnel in the networking and fiber optics industries is intense, and we will be required to compete for those personnel with companies having substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. To attract executives, we have had to enter into compensation arrangements, which have resulted in substantial deferred stock expense and adversely affected our results of operations. We may enter into similar arrangements in the future to attract qualified executives. If we should be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business could be materially adversely affected. Environmental Regulations Applicable to Our Manufacturing Operations Could Limit Our Ability to Expand Or Subject Us to Substantial Costs. We are subject to a variety of environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals used during our manufacturing processes. Further, we are subject to other safety, labeling and training regulations as required by local, state and federal law. Any failure by us to comply with present and future regulations could subject us to future liabilities or the suspension of production. In addition, these kinds of regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations. We cannot assure you that these legal requirements will not impose on us the need for additional capital expenditures or other requirements. If we fail to obtain required permits or otherwise fail to operate within these or future legal requirements, we may be required to pay substantial penalties, suspend our operations or make costly changes to our manufacturing processes or facilities. Our Headquarters Are Located In Southern California, and Certain of Our Manufacturing Facilities Are Located In Southern California and Taiwan, Where Disasters May Occur That Could Disrupt Our Operations and Harm Our Business. Our corporate headquarters are located in the San Fernando Valley of Southern California and some of our manufacturing facilities are located in Southern California and Taiwan. Historically, these regions have been vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as earthquakes, fires and floods, which at times have disrupted the local economies and posed physical risks to our property and personnel. In addition, terrorist acts or acts of war targeted at the United States, and specifically Southern California, has caused damage and disruption to us and could again cause damage or disruption to us, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors and resellers, and customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. If We Fail to Forecast Component and Material Requirements for Our Manufacturing Facilities Accurately, We Could Incur Additional Costs or Experience Manufacturing Delays. We use rolling forecasts based on anticipated product orders to determine our component requirements. It is very important that we accurately predict both the demand for our products and the lead times required to obtain the necessary components and materials. Lead times for components and materials that we order vary significantly and depend on factors such as specific supplier requirements, the size of the order, contract terms and current market demand for the components. For substantial increases in production levels, some suppliers may need nine months or more lead-time. If we overestimate our component and material requirements, we may have excess inventory, which would increase our costs. If we underestimate our component and material requirements, we may have inadequate inventory, which could interrupt our manufacturing and delay delivery of our products to our customers. Any of these occurrences would negatively impact our net sales. 27 Table of Contents Legislative Actions, Higher Insurance Costs and Potential New Accounting Pronouncements Are Likely to Impact Our Future Financial Position and Results of Operations and In the Case of FASB’s New Pronouncement Regarding the Expensing of Stock Options Will Adversely Impact Our Financial Results. There have been regulatory changes, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and Nasdaq Stock Market rules and there may be potential new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings, which will have an impact on our future financial position and results of operations. These regulatory changes and other legislative initiatives have increased general and administrative costs. In addition, insurers are likely to increase rates as a result of high claims rates recently and our rates for our various insurance policies are likely to increase. The Financial Accounting Standards Board’s recent change to mandate the expensing of stock compensation will require us to record charges to earnings for stock option grants to employees and directors and will adversely affect our financial results for periods after we implement the new pronouncement. As required, we implemented this new pronouncement on January 1, 2006. For a discussion of the impact on our historical financial results if we had implemented this pronouncement in prior periods, see Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements” on page 50. We Are At Risk of Securities Class Action Or Other Litigation That Could Result In Substantial Costs and Divert Management’s Attention and Resources. In the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Due to the volatility and potential volatility of our stock price, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities or other litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. If Our Cash Flow Significantly Deteriorates In the Future, Our Liquidity and Ability to Operate Our Business Could Be Adversely Affected. We incurred net losses in 2006, 2005 and 2004, and our combined cash and short-term investments declined in 2005 and 2004. Excluding the private placement of approximately 19.9 million shares of our common stock issued to a group of institutional investors in March 2006, which resulted in proceeds of $69.9 million, our combined cash, cash equivalents, time deposits and short-term and long-term marketable securities would have declined at December 31, 2006 by approximately $20.9 million, or approximately 30%, since December 31, 2005. Although we generate cash from operations, we may continue to experience negative overall cash flow in future quarters. If our cash flow significantly deteriorates in the future, our liquidity and ability to operate our business could be adversely affected. For example, our ability to raise financial capital may be hindered due to our net losses and the possibility of future negative cash flow. The Prevailing Market Price of Our Common Stock May Limit Our Ability to Raise Equity Capital. Covenants in our Notes preclude us from issuing our common stock or securities that are convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of our common stock at a per share price less than the conversion price per share of the 2003 Notes then in effect, except in certain limited cases. The conversion price of our Notes currently in effect is $2.32 per share and the recent market prices of our common stock have at times been below the conversion price. During periods when the market price of our common stock is below $2.32 per share, we are limited in our ability to conduct an equity financing without triggering a default of our Notes or the need to seek a waiver from the holder, which may not be obtainable. A continuing inability to raise financial capital would limit our operating flexibility. 28 Table of Contents It Is an Event of Default Under Our Notes If Our Common Stock Were Delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market. We would be in default under our Notes, if our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market. In that case, each holder of Notes has the right to require us to repay the outstanding principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Delaware Law and Our Ability to Issue Preferred Stock May Have Anti-Takeover Effects That Could Prevent a Change In Control, Which May Cause Our Stock Price to Decline. We are authorized to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock. This preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by our board of directors without further action by stockholders. The terms of any series of preferred stock may include voting rights (including the right to vote as a series on particular matters), preferences as to dividend, liquidation, conversion and redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. No preferred stock is currently outstanding. The issuance of any preferred stock could materially adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock, and therefore, reduce the value of our common stock. In particular, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell our assets to, a third party and thereby preserve control by the present management. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibit us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder unless the business combination is approved in the manner prescribed under Section 203. These provisions of Delaware law also may discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us, which may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 29 Table of Contents 