RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information and risks described elsewhere in this annual report, Creative’s business is subject to the following risks: Creative needs to efficiently develop and introduce new products that gain market acceptance and to manage frequent product transitions in order to be competitive The markets that Creative targets are highly competitive and are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, dynamic consumer demand, frequent new product introductions and decreasing prices. Creative’s business depends to a significant extent on its ability to cost-effectively develop and introduce new products and product enhancements for the digital entertainment market that gain market acceptance. In order to be competitive, Creative must, among other things: • anticipate the features and functionality in digital entertainment products that consumers will demand; • incorporate those features and functionality into timely new products and product enhancements; • manufacture the new products and product enhancements in commercial volumes at a high-quality; • timely deliver the new products and product enhancements to its retailers, distributors and channel partners; • price its new products and product enhancements competitively; and • manage product transitions smoothly and cost-effectively. The development of new products and product enhancements can be very challenging and requires high levels of innovation. The development process is also lengthy and costly. In addition, the introduction of a new product or product line is a complex task which involves heavy expenditures in training, promotion and channel development, the effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated demand as well as careful management of existing product inventories to avoid the costs associated with returns and slow-moving channel inventory. Creative faces a number of risks when it introduces new or enhanced products or integrates new technologies into new or existing products, including, among other things, disruption in its customers’ ordering patterns, excessive levels of older product inventories and delivering adequate supplies of new products to meet customer demand. Creative may not successfully enter the various product markets that it identifies and sales of new products and product enhancements introduced may not become significant or profitable in the face of competition. If Creative is not successful in cost-effectively identifying, developing, manufacturing and selling new products or product enhancements, or if it is unable to manage product transitions smoothly and efficiently, its results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Creative faces a high level of competition in each of its product markets Creative faces intense competition from a large number of established companies and emerging companies in the personal digital entertainment, PC audio, graphics, communications and speakers markets and semiconductor markets and expects competition to continue to intensify as these markets evolve. In addition, Creative increasingly faces competition from cell phone companies which have been promoting phones that offer music and other entertainment functions. Furthermore, in the U.S., service providers often discount the price of cell phones when purchased with a calling plan. The industries in which Creative competes are characterized by frequent product introductions, short product lifecycles, aggressive pricing practices, downward pressure on 8 Table of Contents gross margins and steady improvements in product price/performance characteristics. Many of Creative’s current and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and other resources. Some of Creative’s competitors may also have greater name recognition and market presence, longer operating histories, greater market power and product depth, lower cost structures and larger customer bases. Creative’s competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new technologies and changes in consumer preferences by introducing new products at competitive prices, which may result in lost market share for Creative and may force Creative to lower prices on its products, which may result in reduced margins for those products. These competitive pressures may also cause Creative’s potential customers to delay or defer their purchasing decisions in anticipation of potential new products, lower prices, or both. Creative may not be able to compete successfully in the future with its existing or potential competitors and intense competition could have a material adverse effect on Creative’s operating results. For more information regarding Creative’s competition and the risk factors arising out of the competitive environment in which Creative operates, see “Competition” in Item 4 of this annual report. Creative’s gross margins have fluctuated and can vary significantly depending on product mix and other factors Creative has a diversified product portfolio of consumer electronics and peripherals for PCs and sells these products through a worldwide network of domestic and international distributors, retailers and OEM customers. Creative’s gross margins vary significantly by product line and customer type, as well as within product lines. In fiscal year 2007, Creative’s gross margin was 19.4% compared to gross margin of 14.6% for fiscal year 2006 and 22.5% for fiscal year 2005. The fluctuation in Creative’s gross margins over the past three fiscal years was largely attributable to a change in the mix of products sold during those periods. Sales of Creative’s audio products, including the Sound Blaster X-Fi family of sound cards, generally have higher gross margins than sales of its portable digital audio players, including the ZEN family of hard drive players and flash players. Over the last three fiscal years, sales of personal digital entertainment products, which include portable digital audio and video players, have increased dramatically while sale of Creative’s audio products have declined. A continued shift in sales mix away from higher-margin audio products towards lower-margin portable audio and video players will adversely affect Creative’s future overall gross margin and operating margin. In addition, Creative recorded a substantial write-down for inventories of components in the third quarter of fiscal year 2006, which also adversely affected its gross margin. Given the rapid and unpredictable pace of product obsolescence in the consumer electronics and PC industries and fluctuations in the price of components, such as flash memory, the company may incur inventory and related charges in the future. Such charges have had, and may have, a material adverse effect on the company’s gross margin and operating margin. Creative’s gross margins are generally lower for sales to OEM customers compared with sales to its retail customers. Increases in OEM sales or decreases in retail sales relative to total sales may also negatively impact Creative’s gross margins. A substantial proportion of Creative’s overall sales are derived from a few product categories A limited number of Creative’s product categories account for a substantial portion of Creative’s overall sales. Sales of personal digital entertainment products represented approximately 63% of sales in fiscal year 2007, 65% of sales in fiscal year 2006 and 63% of sales in fiscal year 2005. Sales of audio products represented approximately 13% of sales in fiscal year 2007, 13% of sales in fiscal year 2006 and 14% of sales in fiscal year 2005. Sales of speakers represented approximately 16% of sales in fiscal year 2007, 13% of sales in fiscal year 2006 and 14% of sales in fiscal year 2005. Creative’s profitability has resulted largely from sales of products from these categories. 9 Table of Contents The markets for personal digital entertainment products are evolving rapidly and competition is particularly intense. In addition, some of Creative’s competitors in the semiconductor industry are integrating basic audio capabilities into their products for inclusion in PCs. The integration of audio capabilities into the central processing units, motherboards and/or operating systems of PCs has adversely impacted and may continue to adversely impact Creative’s ability to sell its sound card products into the PC market. Creative expects that these product categories will continue to account for a significant portion of Creative’s sales in the future. Creative believes that a decline in demand or prices for these products, whether as a result of competition, technological change or otherwise, would adversely affect Creative’s sales and profitability. Because Creative must acquire components and build products based on forecasted demand, it faces substantial inventory risk Creative must order components and build inventory in advance of customer orders for products. Because demand for the company’s products is affected by a number of factors, including market acceptance of its products, competition and general economic conditions, there is a risk that Creative may forecast demand incorrectly and produce or order from third parties excess or insufficient inventories of particular products. Creative has experienced differences between actual and forecasted demand in the past and expects differences to arise in the future. In addition, Creative’s operating results and financial condition have in the past and may in the future be materially adversely affected by the company’s ability to manage its inventory levels and respond to short-term shifts in customer demand. Creative records a write-down for inventories of components and products that have become obsolete or are in excess of anticipated demand or net realizable value and accrues necessary reserves for cancellation fees of orders for inventories that have been cancelled. Creative recorded a substantial write-down for inventories of components in the third quarter of fiscal year 2006 and, given the rapid and unpredictable pace of product obsolescence in the consumer electronics and PC industries and fluctuation in the prices of components, such as flash memory, the company may incur inventory and related charges in the future. Such charges have had, and may have, a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations and financial condition. Creative acquires new technologies from time to time; acquisitions involve numerous risks and may not lead to improved operating results Creative’s growth is dependent on growth in its target markets, its ability to enhance its products and its ability to introduce new products and product enhancements on a timely basis that gain market acceptance. Creative acquires technologies from time to time for its products from third parties through acquisitions, licenses or other means, often at substantial cost. While acquisitions may be important to remain competitive, they may not lead to any improvements in Creative’s operating results and involve numerous risks, including the following: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of any acquired entities or businesses; • diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; • difficulties in entering markets in which Creative has no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; • potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development; • insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired entities or businesses; and • the diversion of capital and other resources. 10 Table of Contents Acquisitions may also cause Creative to: • issue shares, which would dilute the ownership percentage of Creative’s current shareholders; • assume liabilities; • record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing and potential periodic impairment charges; • incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; • incur large and immediate write-offs; and • become subject to litigation. Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky and no assurance can be given that Creative’s previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect its business, operating results or financial condition. If Creative fails to successfully integrate acquisitions or achieve any anticipated benefits of an acquisition, its operations and business could be harmed. Creative’s operating results fluctuate due to seasonal buying patterns and other factors and are not indicative of future performance Creative’s operating results have been in the past, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations as a result of a number of factors. These factors include: • the seasonal buying patterns of Creative’s customers, which typically result in higher demand for Creative products in the second quarter of the fiscal year compared to the other quarters of the fiscal year; • the volume and timing of significant orders; • the timing of new product introductions by Creative and its competitors; • Creative’s ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels and purchase commitments; • variations in product costs, mix of products sold and average selling prices of products; • manufacturing lead times; • fluctuations in Creative’s gross margins; • fluctuations in spending on sales and marketing activities; and • general economic and other conditions, especially conditions that affect consumer demand for personal computers and products used with personal computers. As a consequence, Creative’s operating results for a particular future period are difficult to predict, and therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Many of Creative’s operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short term and Creative may be unable to rapidly adjust spending to compensate for any unexpected sales shortfall. Any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere in this annual report, could have a material adverse effect on Creative’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Creative depends upon outside vendors and has limited supply sources for certain components of its most successful products Creative’s sales are principally derived from its personal digital entertainment products, audio products and speaker products. Creative purchases several components for these products from third party vendors, some of whom are the sole sources for these components. Creative has experienced delays and shortages in the delivery 11 Table of Contents of these components, including flash memory chips and hard disk drives, in the past and may experience them again in the future. If Creative’s vendors do not allocate a sufficient supply of high-quality components to meet Creative’s needs, Creative may be required to procure these components at a higher cost from alternative suppliers. Creative may also be forced to alter product designs to accommodate the alternative components, which may cause significant delays in the manufacturing process. In the event any delay or shortage occurs, Creative’s operations could be adversely impacted by reducing Creative’s ability to distribute its products to distributors and to meet customer demand. Creative is subject to risks associated with substantial international operations Sales outside the United States accounted for 64% of Creative’s net sales in fiscal year 2007. In addition, a substantial number of Creative’s products are manufactured, assembled and tested by third parties in Asia. As a result, Creative is subject to a number of risks of conducting business outside of the United States, any of which could have a material adverse impact on its results of operations, including: • fluctuations in the U.S. dollar, the principal currency used by Creative to transact business; • unexpected changes in, or impositions of, government requirements; • delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for certain technologies, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions; • shipping delays resulting from disruptions to Creative’s supply chain caused by labor disputes, war or other events beyond Creative’s control; • potentially longer payment cycles; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; • the imposition of additional taxes and penalties; • the burdens of complying with a variety of non-U.S. laws; and • other factors beyond Creative’s control, including terrorism, major health concerns and rising fuel costs. Creative is also subject to geopolitical risks, such as political and economic instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships. In addition, the laws of some countries in which Creative’s products are or may be manufactured or sold may not protect its products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Creative may be adversely affected by general economic conditions, political and economic uncertainty in various countries and other factors outside of its control Sales of consumer electronics and PCs have historically been dependent upon discretionary spending by consumers and Creative’s operating performance depends significantly on general global economic conditions and growth of the consumer electronics and PC markets. A slowdown in the global economy and the consumer electronics and PC markets coupled with a poor economic outlook, political and social turmoil in the near future may cause consumers to defer decisions to purchase Creative products. Creative also has strategic investments in numerous companies throughout the world, including Asia and the Middle East. Creative’s financial position, results of operations, return on investments or ability to realize the anticipated benefits from a portfolio company’s technology may be adversely impacted in the future due to turmoil in international markets. To remain competitive, Creative must be able to maintain substantial capital which Creative may be unable to do in the future In order to compete, Creative believes that it will need to have substantial capital in order to maintain the flexibility to take advantage of opportunities as they arise and to fund Creative’s working capital requirements. 12 Table of Contents Creative believes that at the current level of operations, its existing resources, including existing cash and cash equivalents, existing credit facilities and anticipated cash flows from operations, will be adequate to meet its projected working capital and other cash needs for at least the next twelve months. To the extent, however, that existing resources and anticipated cash flows are not adequate for its operational and other cash needs, Creative’s operating results and financial position could be adversely affected. In November 2004, Creative entered into a five-year $175.0 million syndicated term loan facility with a group of international banks and drew down on the entire loan during fiscal year 2005. The proceeds from this facility were used primarily to fund the growth in working capital requirements arising from the growth in the company’s revenue. The loan facility contains certain financial covenants, including requirements for Creative to maintain certain working capital ratios, but does not restrict Creative’s ability to borrow or distribute earnings. Creative repaid $75 million of the loan in fiscal 2007. Creative may decide to obtain additional working capital to better position the company for growth in the personal digital entertainment market and other markets. In such event, Creative may engage in equity or debt financing to secure additional funds. If Creative raises additional funds through issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, its existing shareholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities issued by Creative could have superior rights to those of Creative’s ordinary shares. Any new debt financing secured by Creative in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to Creative’s capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for Creative to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, Creative may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable or commercially acceptable terms. If Creative is unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on favorable or commercially acceptable terms, its ability to pursue new business opportunities and to respond to business challenges could be limited. Creative’s continued success is dependent on a group of key distributors and customers Creative relies on distributors, retailers and resellers to sell its products. If Creative’s competitors offer its distributors, retailers or resellers more favorable terms or have more products available to meet demand from their customers or are able to exert greater leverage over the distributors, retailers or resellers than Creative, then Creative’s distributors, retailers and resellers may de-emphasize or decline to carry its products. If Creative is unable to maintain successful relationships with its distributors, retailers and resellers or to expand its distribution channels, its operating results and financial position will suffer. Although during fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, none of Creative’s customers accounted for more than 10% of Creative’s total worldwide sales, a reduction or delay in orders from a group of Creative’s key distributors and customers could have an adverse effect upon Creative’s operating results and financial position. As of June 30, 2007 and 2006, one customer accounted for more than 10% of net accounts receivable, and as of June 30, 2005, two customers accounted for more than 10% of net accounts receivable. Distributors and retail customers historically have been characterized by rapid change, including periods of widespread financial difficulties and consolidation. Creative may be unable to retain its distributors and retail customers and may be unable to find alternative distributors and retail customers without incurring delays and increased costs. In addition, sales to any particular distributor or retailer may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Though Creative records allowances for expected bad or doubtful accounts receivable balances, non-recovery of these or other accounts receivable balances could have an adverse effect upon Creative’s operating results and financial position. Creative’s success is dependent upon its ability to continue to protect its proprietary technologies, and know-how in product design Creative’s ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on its ability to protect its proprietary technologies, and know-how in product design. Creative relies primarily upon its trade secrets program, 13 Table of Contents copyrights and patents to protect its technologies. Creative generally enters into confidentiality and/or license agreements with its employees, distributors, customers and potential customers. It also limits access to, and distribution of, its software, documentation and other proprietary information. However, these protections may not be adequate and Creative’s competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to Creative’s technologies. In addition, the steps taken by Creative may not be adequate to deter misappropriation or independent third-party development of Creative’s technologies. Furthermore, the protection provided to Creative’s proprietary technologies by the laws and courts of foreign nations may not be substantially similar to or as protective as the remedies available under U.S. laws. Creative holds various U.S. patents and pending U.S. patent applications and corresponding patents and pending applications in other countries. It is possible that a patent owned by Creative will be invalidated, deemed unenforceable, circumvented or challenged, that the patent rights granted will not provide competitive advantages to Creative or that one or more of Creative’s pending or future patent applications will not be issued. Any of these events could significantly harm Creative’s business and future prospects. Creative’s success depends on its ability to attract and retain key personnel Creative’s success depends to a significant extent upon a number of key employees and senior management. The loss of the service of one or more of these key employees, none of whom is bound by a written employment agreement, could have a material adverse effect on Creative. Creative believes that its future success will also depend in large part upon its ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. Creative may not be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel it requires. Creative may incur substantial costs enforcing its intellectual property rights and defending against third party claims as a result of litigation or other proceedings Creative is a party to lawsuits in the normal course of its business. In connection with the enforcement of Creative’s own intellectual property rights or in connection with disputes relating to the validity or alleged infringement of third party rights, including patent rights, Creative has been, currently is and may in the future be, subject to claims or litigation. Any assertion of infringement against Creative may result in potentially costly litigation by Creative, may require Creative to enter into royalty arrangements with the third parties claiming infringement and may result in an injunction or award of damages against Creative. Litigation can also be disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of legal proceedings are often difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on Creative’s business, operating results or financial condition. For additional information regarding certain of the lawsuits in which Creative is involved, see “Legal Proceedings” in Item 8 of this annual report. Changes in environmental rules and regulations could increase Creative’s costs and impact its future operating results Creative is subject to environmental regulations and other requirements in a number of countries. For example, Creative is subject to the European Union Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive as enacted by individual European Union countries, which makes producers of electrical goods responsible for the collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of covered products. In the event it is determined that Creative has not complied with applicable environmental laws and regulations, Creative may incur remediation costs, other penalties and sustain injury to its brand image. Creative’s activities also may be limited if it is unable to comply with applicable environmental regulations, which could adversely affect its operating results. Similar environmental legislation may be enacted in other geographies, including federal and state legislation in the United States, the cumulative impact of which could be significant. There is no assurance that such existing laws or future laws will not have a material adverse effect on Creative. 14 Table of Contents Rising fuel costs, limited fuel availability or higher shipping costs may increase Creative’s costs of doing business Increases in fuel costs, limited fuel availability or higher shipping costs may adversely affect Creative’s business, including its gross margins. Creative’s products are often manufactured far from the final points of sale for these products. As a result, Creative’s shipping costs are impacted by an increase in fuel costs or limitations on fuel availability. Creative is controlled by one founding shareholder As of June 30, 2007, Mr. Sim Wong Hoo, one of Creative’s founders and its current Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned approximately 28.7% of Creative’s outstanding ordinary shares. Because he is the largest shareholder, Mr. Sim may be able to influence the election of Creative’s directors, to determine the outcome of most corporate actions requiring shareholder approval and to control the management and affairs of Creative. Creative is subject to anti-takeover provisions that could delay or prevent an acquisition and could adversely affect the price of Creative’s ordinary shares The Securities and Futures Act (Chapter 289) of Singapore and the Singapore Code on Take-Overs and Mergers (“Code”) contain certain provisions that may discourage, delay, deter or prevent a future takeover or change in control of Creative. Except with the Securities Industry Council’s consent, the Code requires any person acquiring an interest in 30% or more of Creative’s voting rights, to extend a takeover offer to the holders of any class of share capital of Creative which carries votes. Such voting rights may be acquired either individually or by acting in concert with other parties, through a single transaction or a series of transactions over a period of time. The Code also requires such takeover offer to be made if a person holding between 30% and 50% of Creative’s voting rights, either individually or acting in concert with other parties, acquires an additional 1% of Creative’s voting rights in any six month period. In addition to such person, each of the principal members of the group of persons acting in concert with him may also have the obligation to extend such takeover offer. These provisions may discourage or prevent certain types of transactions involving an actual or threatened change of control of Creative, which may allow shareholders to sell their shares of Creative at a price above the prevailing market price. Therefore, these provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of Creative in the future. As a result of Creative’s voluntary delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market, U.S. investors may find it more difficult to buy or sell Creative’s ordinary shares On September 4, 2007, Creative announced that the company completed the voluntary delisting of its ordinary shares from the NASDAQ Global Market. August 31, 2007 was the last day of trading for Creative ordinary shares on NASDAQ. The delisting of Creative’s shares from NASDAQ could reduce the ability of holders of its ordinary shares to purchase or sell shares as quickly and as inexpensively as they have done historically, and may have an adverse effect on the trading price of Creative’s ordinary shares. If Creative terminates its U.S. public company reporting obligations, investors may find it more difficult to obtain information about Creative Creative currently files reports with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission electronically and its reports can be found at the SEC’s website. Creative intends to terminate its reporting obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 when it becomes eligible to do so, which will occur at the earliest twelve months after the delisting of its ordinary shares from NASDAQ and will occur only if Creative meets certain requirements under the Exchange Act. The elimination of Creative’s U.S. public reporting obligations may make 15 Table of Contents it more difficult for investors to obtain current information about Creative. If Creative terminates its reporting obligations under the Exchange Act, it will still be obligated to file reports under Singapore’s applicable reporting requirements, but Singapore’s applicable reporting requirements may not require the same level of disclosure as the U.S. public reporting requirements and investors may not have easy access to Creative’s Singapore-mandated reports. If Creative is unable to suspend its U.S. public reporting obligations or spends a substantial amount of its cash reserves in an effort to do so, then its results of operations and financial condition will be harmed Creative will be able to terminate its U.S. public company reporting obligations if the U.S. average daily trading volume of its ordinary shares is 5% or less of the worldwide average daily trading volume of its ordinary shares during the twelve-month period ending 60 days before filing to deregister its securities under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Alternatively, if Creative’s ordinary shares are held by fewer than 300 U.S. residents, including each U.S. resident that owns shares in the name of a broker, dealer, bank or nominee for such holder’s account, and if options to purchase ordinary shares are held by fewer than 300 U.S. residents, Creative will be able to suspend its U.S. public reporting obligations after completion of the fiscal year in which Creative is able to so reduce the number of holders of Creative’s ordinary shares and options to purchase ordinary shares. If Creative is not able to terminate or suspend its U.S. public reporting obligations, then it will continue to incur significant costs and administrative burdens to comply with its U.S. public reporting obligations. Such costs and burdens may have an adverse impact on Creative’s profitability and results of operations. In addition, if Creative spends a substantial amount of its cash reserves to be in the position to cease its U.S. public reporting obligations, then its cash position will be adversely affected. Changes in, or interpretations of, accounting principles could result in unfavorable accounting charges Creative prepares its consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles can have a significant effect on Creative’s reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. Creative is exposed to increased costs and risks associated with complying with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that public companies in the United States evaluate and report on their systems of internal controls over financial reporting. Creative is not required to comply with the requirement to provide an auditor’s attestation report on internal control over financial reporting until the fiscal year ending on or after July 15, 2007. Creative has incurred and will continue to incur significant expenses and management resources to comply with the requirements of Section 404 on an ongoing basis and Creative cannot provide any assurance that it will be able to satisfy the requirements related to internal controls on an ongoing basis and that its auditors will be able to provide an attestation report regarding management’s internal control report when required. A determination that Creative’s internal control over financial reporting is not effective might cause investors to lose confidence in the company’s reported financial information, which could cause volatility in the market price of the company’s shares. The market price of Creative’s ordinary shares is volatile The quoted market price of Creative’s ordinary shares has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. The quoted market price of Creative’s ordinary shares may be significantly affected by a variety of factors, including: • the announcement of new products or technologies; 16 Table of Contents • innovations by Creative or its competitors; • acquisitions of new technologies; • divestments of particular low-performing product lines; • quarter to quarter variations in Creative’s results of operations; • the timing of the cessation of Creative’s U.S. public company reporting obligations; and • general market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries. The stock prices for many technology companies, including Creative, have experienced wide fluctuations, which often have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. In addition, the relatively low trading volume of Creative’s ordinary shares on the SGX-ST in Singapore may lead to more volatility in the market price of Creative’s shares. As a result, these fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of Creative’s ordinary shares in the future. Creative’s stock price may fluctuate because the value of its investments fluctuates A portion of Creative’s assets includes equity investments in various companies. These companies include both publicly traded and non-publicly traded companies. The market price, valuations and carrying value of the securities that Creative holds in these companies may fluctuate due to general market conditions, volatility for technology stocks and other conditions over which Creative has no control. Fluctuations in the market price and valuations of the securities that Creative holds in other companies may result in potential price reductions of carrying values of Creative’s investee companies and fluctuations in the market price of Creative’s ordinary shares. Decreases in the value of Creative’s publicly-traded investments may reduce the amount of working capital available to Creative. The enforceability of U.S. judgments against Creative is limited Because substantial portions of Creative’s assets are located outside the United States, purchasers of Creative’s securities have limited assets in the United States against which they may enforce judgments of U.S. courts. As a result, purchasers of Creative’s securities who obtain judgments against Creative based upon allegations of violations of U.S. laws may be required to seek enforcement of their judgments in non-U.S. jurisdictions, such as Singapore, where Creative’s executive offices and its principal research and development operations are located. However, there is no guarantee that a court in a non-U.S. jurisdiction would enforce a U.S. judgment. There is no treaty between the United States and Singapore providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments. As a result, U.S. judgments are not automatically enforceable in Singapore. In addition, judgments of U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws are not enforceable in Singapore courts. It is doubtful as to whether Singapore courts will hear actions brought in Singapore courts based solely upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws or enter judgments in such actions. Service of process on Creative in the United States is limited generally Creative is a Singapore corporation. A majority of the members of its management team and Board of Directors are not U.S. residents. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon these non-U.S. residents. 17 Table of Contents 