Item 1A. Risk Factors In evaluating our company, careful consideration should be given to the risk factors set forth below, as well as the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Although these risk factors are many, these factors should not be regarded as constituting the only risks present in connection with the business. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and/or financial condition. In addition to the following disclosures, please refer to the other information contained in this report including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. We filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code and are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with Chapter 11 proceedings. For the duration of our Chapter 11 proceedings, our operations, including our ability to continue as a going concern, are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy. Risks and uncertainties associated with our Chapter 11 proceedings are outlined under "Item 1. Business - Substantial Indebtedness; Bankruptcy Proceedings" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and include the following: o our ability to obtain additional financing; o the actions and decisions of our creditors and other third parties who have interests in our Chapter 11 proceedings that may be inconsistent with our plans; o our ability to obtain court approval with respect to motions in the Chapter 11 proceedings prosecuted from time to time; o our ability to develop, prosecute, confirm and consummate a plan of 17 21 reorganization with respect to the Chapter 11 proceedings; o our ability to obtain and maintain normal terms with vendors and service providers; o our ability to maintain contracts; and o risks associated with third parties seeking and obtaining court orders to convert the cases to Chapter 7 cases. These risks and uncertainties could affect our business and operations in various ways. Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with our Chapter 11 proceedings, the ultimate impact of events that occur during these proceedings will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be accurately predicted or quantified, and there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We may be unable to complete the proposed sale of our St. Louis operations and, if completed the sale proceeds may not be sufficient to satisfy our debt obligations. On February 24, 2006, we entered into a Riverboat Casino Sale and Purchase Agreement with Pinnacle Entertainment, Inc. for the sale of our St. Louis operations, which comprise substantially all of our remaining assets. Under the terms of this purchase agreement, all of the outstanding capital stock of President Missouri will be sold for approximately $31.5 million, subject to working capital adjustments. The purchase agreement has been submitted to the Missouri Bankruptcy Court for approval. Final closing of the sale to Pinnacle is contingent upon satisfaction of various closing conditions including licensing and approval of the buyer by the Missouri Gaming Commission. There can be no assurance that these closing conditions can be satisfied, or that the transaction will be completed on the terms set forth in the purchase agreement. We intend to complete the sale under the agreement with Pinnacle as soon as practicable after the conditions have been fulfilled. If a superior offer is not received, the anticipated sale proceeds from the transaction with Pinnacle may not be sufficient to pay our outstanding debt obligations and other liabilities in full. The proceeds of the sale to Pinnacle will be held for the ultimate benefit of our creditors as provided by order of the Bankruptcy Court. Gaming companies are subject to extensive regulation. Failure to comply with such regulations may have a material adverse effect on our operations. We face extensive federal, state and local regulation of our ownership and operation of gaming facility, including regulation by the Missouri Gaming Commission. The Missouri Gaming Commission may, among other things, limit, condition, suspend or revoke our gaming authorization. Substantial fines or forfeiture of assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations may be levied against us, our subsidiaries and the persons involved. To date, we believe we have obtained all governmental licenses, qualifications, registrations, permits and approvals necessary for the operation of our gaming facilities. However, there can be no assurance that we can obtain any new licenses, qualifications, registrations, permits or approvals that may be required in the future or that existing ones will not be suspended or revoked. From time to time, legislators and special interest groups have proposed legislation that would restrict or prevent gaming operations. Any new restriction on or prohibition of our gaming operations could force us to 18 22 curtail operations and incur significant losses. Adverse economic conditions could have a negative effect on our business. Our business involves leisure and entertainment, and accordingly our gaming revenues are sensitive to general economic conditions and are influenced by consumer confidence in the economy and other factors. During periods of recession or economic downturn, consumers may reduce or eliminate spending on leisure and entertainment activities. A recession or downturn in the general economy or in our market area could result in fewer customers visiting our property, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Inclement weather and other conditions could seriously disrupt our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our St. Louis operations are subject to risks in addition to those associated with land-based casinos, including flood or other severe weather. Our operating results have in the past been negatively affected by the effects of floods and adverse weather conditions, and we have temporarily suspended operations on various occasions as a result of such adversities. Under less severe conditions, high river levels in St. Louis cause reduced parking and a general public perception of diminished access to the casino resulting in decreased revenues. Reduced patronage and the suspension or loss of our gaming operations for any period of time could adversely affect our results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive market. The St. Louis market area in which we operate is highly competitive. There are presently four other casino companies operating five casinos in the market area, many of which have significantly greater name recognition and financial and marketing resources, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. Two of these are Illinois casino companies operating single casino vessels docked on the Mississippi River, one across the Mississippi River from the "Admiral" and the second 20 miles upriver. There are two Missouri casino companies, each of which operates casino vessels approximately 20 miles west of St. Louis on the Missouri River. One company operates two casinos in Maryland Heights, Missouri and the other company operates one casino in the City of St. Charles, Missouri. The Missouri Gaming Commission has announced that it would consider licensing additional casinos in the St. Louis market. In September 2003, the City of St. Louis and St. Louis County, which are separate political and geographic subdivisions, announced that they were both issuing requests for proposals for a new casino in each jurisdiction. A project proposed by Pinnacle Entertainment, Inc. was selected and approved by the City of St. Louis as its recommendation before the Missouri Gaming Commission. Its proposal includes a casino two blocks from the "Admiral." The St. Louis County Council approved a separate Pinnacle Entertainment, Inc. project in Lemay, Missouri. On September 1, 2004, the Missouri Gaming Commission approved Pinnacle Entertainment, Inc. for formal license investigations for both the St. Louis City and St. Louis County projects. Each of the proposals submitted requires significant construction of new infrastructure for the casino and entertainment complexes. Pending construction and gaming license approval, it is anticipated that the City of St. Louis casino development will open in 2007. Our management believes that the licensing of a new casino or casinos in metropolitan St. Louis will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to litigation which, if adversely determined, could cause us to incur substantial losses. We are, from time to time, during the normal 19 23 course of operating our businesses, subject to various litigation claims and legal disputes. Some of the litigation claims may not be covered under our insurance policies, or our insurance carriers may seek to deny coverage. As a result, we might required to incur significant legal fees, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position. In addition, because we cannot predict the outcome of any action, it is possible that, as a result of current and/or future litigation, we will be subject to adverse judgments or settlements that could significantly reduce our earnings or result in losses. We are currently involved in litigation regarding certain parking facilities used in our St. Louis operations. We believe that a sustained loss of use of parking facilities will have a significant negative impact on revenue and a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations. For discussion regarding a dispute with respect to these proceedings and other litigation in which we are involved, see "Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Litigation." Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 