Item 1A. Risk Factors In evaluating our company, careful consideration should be given to the risk factors set forth below, as well as the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Although these risk factors are many, these factors should not be regarded as constituting the only risks present in connection with the business. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and/or financial condition. In addition to the following disclosures, please refer to the other information contained in this report including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. We have no operating business and may be forced to liquidate. Following the consummation of the sale of the our St. Louis gaming operations in December 2006, we no longer own any operating entities and our assets consist primarily of cash, certain deferred tax assets and certain pending litigation claims. Our business activities currently consist of managing our existing litigation matters, discharging our liabilities and administering the bankruptcy reorganization plans of our former Biloxi and St. Louis operations. In the event that our remaining assets (including any litigation recoveries which the we may receive) are not sufficient to discharge our liabilities or begin new business operations, we will be forced to liquidate. We currently have no definitive plans, arrangements or understandings with any prospective business combination or other transaction. We have limited resources and no revenues from operations. We have limited resources, no revenues from operations and our cash on hand may not be sufficient to satisfy our cash requirements during the next twelve months. In addition, we do not have any operating business and we will not achieve any revenues (other than interest income) for the foreseeable future. Our financial statements disclose certain conditions that raise substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. If we are in fact unable to continue as a going concern, stockholders may lose their entire investment in our Common Stock. 6 12 We filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code and are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with Chapter 11 proceedings. For the duration of our Chapter 11 proceedings, our operations, including our ability to continue as a going concern, are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy. Risks and uncertainties associated with our Chapter 11 proceedings are outlined under "Item 1. Business -- Bankruptcy Proceedings" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and include the following: o the actions and decisions of our creditors and other third parties who have interests in our Chapter 11 proceedings may be inconsistent with our plans; o our ability to obtain court approval with respect to motions in the Chapter 11 proceedings prosecuted from time to time; o our ability to develop, prosecute, confirm and consummate plans of reorganization with respect to the Chapter 11 proceedings; and o risks associated with third parties seeking and obtaining court orders to convert the case to Chapter 7 case. These risks and uncertainties could affect our business and operations in various ways. Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with our Chapter 11 proceedings, the ultimate impact of events that occur during these proceedings will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be accurately predicted or quantified, and there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We are subject to litigation which, if adversely determined, could cause us to incur substantial losses. We are, from time to time, during the normal course of operating our business, subject to various litigation claims and legal disputes. Some of the litigation claims may not be covered under our insurance policies, or our insurance carriers may seek to deny coverage. As a result, we might required to incur significant legal fees, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position. In addition, because we cannot predict the outcome of any action, it is possible that, as a result of current and/or future litigation, we will be subject to adverse judgments or settlements that could result in significant losses. For discussion regarding litigation in which we are involved, see "Note 11. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities" to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Common Stock has been thinly traded; liquidity may be limited. Our Common Stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which provides significantly less liquidity than a securities exchange (such as the American or New York Stock Exchange) or an automated quotation system (such as the Nasdaq National Market or SmallCap Market). Our Common Stock may not be accepted for a listing on an automated quotation system or securities exchange in the future. There is currently a limited volume of trading in our Common Stock, and on many days there has been no trading activity at all. The purchasers of shares of our Common Stock may find it difficult to resell their shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. The market price of shares 7 13 of our Common Stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 