ITEM 1A: Risk Factors Forward Looking Statements This annual report on Form 10-K contains and incorporates by reference certain “forward-looking statements” with respect to results of our operations and businesses. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this annual report on Form 10-K, including those regarding market trends, our financial position, business strategy, projected costs, and plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. In general, such statements are identified by the use of forward- looking words or phrases including, but not limited to, “intended,” “will,” “should,” “may,” “expects,” “expected,” “anticipates,” and “anticipated” or the negative thereof or variations thereon or similar terminology. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, there can be no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct and our actual results could differ materially. These forward-looking statements represent our judgment as of the date of this annual report on Form 10-K. We disclaim, however, any intent or obligation to update our forward-looking statements, except as required by law. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our independent auditors have issued a going concern opinion and, if we are unable to generate enough financing or cash from operations to sustain our business, then we may have to liquidate assets or curtail our operations. In its audit report dated February 1, 2011 for the years ended October 31, 2010, the opinion of our independent registered public accounting firm, Patrick Rodgers, CPA, PA, was qualified only as to the uncertainty of our ability to continue as a going concern. Most notably, significant recurring net losses through October 31, 2010 raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. During the fiscal year that ended October 31, 2010, we incurred net losses of $2,713,945. We will need to generate significant revenue in order to achieve profitability and we may never become profitable. Our independent auditor emphasized the uncertainty related to our business, as well as the level of risk associated with an investment in our common stock. We are a development stage company with a limited operating history who expects to continue to incur losses and as such, may never achieve profitability. We are currently in the development stage, and are the surviving entity of several former corporate incarnations. Over the past two years, we have been principally engaged in organizational, licensing, financing, technology protection, and marketing activities. We are subject to all of the risks inherent to the establishment of a developing business. The potential for success should be considered in light of the unforeseen problems, delays, complications, and added expenses often encountered with a development stage business and the status quo of the environment in which we will operate. We do not have a history of operations from which investors can draw reasonable conclusions as to our future performance, and there can be no assurances that we will ever operate profitably or be commercially successful. If we are unable to accumulate and maintain sufficient cash resources, our existing and future debt obligations could impair our liquidity and financial condition. We have substantial indebtedness. As a result, we will be subject to all of the risks associated with substantial leverage, including the risk that available cash may not be adequate to make required payments to the holders of notes and previously issued debt. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy its interest payment, we will be required to utilize currently available cash resources for this purpose. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations out of cash flow will be dependent upon our future performance and will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which may be beyond our control. In the event we do not have sufficient cash resources to satisfy annual interest or other repayment obligations, we will be in default, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations. To the extent that we are required to use cash resources to satisfy interest, we will have less resources available for business purposes. The termination, non-renewal or renegotiation on materially adverse terms of our contracts with one or more of our retailers could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 The success of our business depends in large part on our ability to develop and maintain relationships with retailers. We strive to provide direct and indirect benefits to our retailers that are superior to or competitive with other providers or systems or alternative uses of the floor space that our machines occupy. If we are unable to provide our retailers with adequate benefits, we may be unable to maintain or renew our contractual relationships on acceptable terms causing our business, financial condition and results of operations to suffer. We must be able to adapt to rapidly changing technology trends and evolving industry standards or we risk our products becoming obsolete. There are numerous risks associated with the development and commercialization of new products, including the risk of unforeseen delays and expenses, and the uncertainty of market acceptance. Currently, we have limited sources of revenue, whether from services or product sales, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to develop such revenue sources or that our operations will become profitable. We may be unable to identify and define product and service trends or anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. Our strategy is based upon leveraging our core competencies in the automated retail space to provide the consumer with convenience and value and to help retailers drive incremental traffic and revenue. If we cannot execute on our strategy, our business could suffer. To be competitive, we need to develop or otherwise provide product and service offerings that are accepted by the market and establish third-party relationships necessary to develop and commercialize such product and service offerings. If we misjudge the market for our products and services or unable to enhance the capabilities of our kiosks and equipment to meet technology demand, we cannot assure you that the products or services that we provide will be successful. Because we do not have our own manufacturing facilities and must rely on contractual relationships to fulfill our manufacturing needs, our dependency could result in lost revenue. We do not have manufacturing facilities, nor do we presently intend to manufacture any of our products. Thus, we will be dependent upon relationships with manufacturers to fulfill our product needs. Our ability to market our product requires that certain products be manufactured in commercial quantities and at an acceptable cost. We have no prior experience in manufacturing and will be materially dependent upon others in these respects. We rely on outside software developers to develop our key product and are subject to their timelines for deployment, unforeseen delays, and problem resolution. We continue to develop proprietary software, interfaces, and hardware for our kiosks. There are many risks associated with the development of proprietary software, including the risk of unforeseen delays and expenses. The loss of key members of our senior management team could adversely affect our business. Currently, we are managed by Mr. Eric Kash, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Kash will continue to play a key role in our management, and the loss of his services could adversely affect our business and our prospects. We currently have an employment agreement with Mr. Kash. We intend to expand our management team by attracting senior management with relevant, current expertise. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining additional technical, marketing, and management personnel as may be required to fully implement our short and long-term business plans. Our inability to attract, hire or retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We will need to attract, retain and motivate skilled technical and managerial personnel, especially highly skilled engineers involved in ongoing product development and consulting personnel who assist in the development and implementation of our total business solutions. The market for such individuals is intensely competitive. Due to the critical role of our product development and consulting staff, the inability to recruit successfully or the loss of a significant part of our product development or consulting staffs could have a material adverse effect on us. The software industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting of skilled personnel. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to retain our current personnel, or that we will be able to attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified technical and managerial personnel in the future. The inability to attract, hire or retain the 7 necessary technical and managerial personnel could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. If our products and services do not gain market acceptance, our business will suffer because we might not be able to fund future operations. A number of factors may affect the market acceptance of our products or any other products we develop or acquire, including, among others: • the price of our products relative to other company’s services for the same purpose; • the perception by retailers of the effectiveness of our products and the benefit to them; • our ability to fund our sales and marketing efforts; and • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. If our products do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to fund future operations, including developing, testing and obtaining regulatory approval for new product candidates and expanding our sales and marketing efforts for our approved products, which would cause our business to suffer. We are highly dependent on a limited number of clients, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We currently sell systems and services to a limited market. We can provide no assurance that the loss of one or more of these retailers will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We depend on our installed client base for revenues from services. If existing retailers fail to renew their agreements, our revenues could decrease. We may have difficulty implementing our products, which could consequently damage our reputation and our ability to generate new business. Implementation of our software products can be a lengthy process, and commitment of resources by our clients is subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little or no control. Delays in the implementations of any of our products, whether by our business partners or us, may result in client dissatisfaction, disputes with customers, or damage to our reputation. Significant problems implementing our software can cause delays or can damage our ability to generate new business. Errors or defects in our products could diminish demand for our products, injure our reputation and reduce our operating results. Our products are complex and may contain errors that could be detected at any point during the life of the product. Errors may be found in new products or releases after shipment. Such errors could result in diminished demand for our products, delays in market acceptance and sales, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation or increased service and warranty costs. If any of these were to occur, our operating results could be adversely affected. Because we operate in a highly competitive market, there are no assurances that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors and/or become profitable. The market for retail information systems is intensely competitive. We believe that the principal competitive factors are product quality, reliability, performance and price, vendor and product reputation, financial stability, features and functions, ease of use, and quality of support. In addition, we believe that new market entrants may attempt to develop fully integrated systems targeting the retail industry. Many of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 8 Additionally, we compete with a variety of hardware and software vendors. Some of our competitors may have advantages over us due to their significant worldwide presence, longer operating and product development history, and substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources. If competitors offer more favorable payment terms and/or more favorable contractual implementation terms or guarantees, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. Any such changes would likely reduce our margins. We are currently involved in litigation, which could be time-consuming and costly to defend, and could also have a negative outcome for our business. We are currently involved in a dispute over a services contract. S.O.S. Resources Inc. and its president, Sol Russo have claimed that SOS fully performed under an agreement with us and is entitled to receive 3,110,000 shares of our unrestricted common stock, and later asserted they would seek a sum of $1,191,600 from us. We believe that SOS and Mr. Russo did not perform under the contract, and intend to vigorously defend ourselves against such claim as well as file a claim for fraud against SOS and Mr. Russo. While we believe that SOS and Mr. Russo’s suit is without merit, we will have to pay costs associated with arbitrating this claim. Competitive pressures could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our product faces competition from a variety of a variety of other in-store systems, including Coinstar, Inc. and its subsidiary, Redbox. Our retailers may choose to replace our coupon kiosks with competitor machines or may decide that floor space could be used for other purposes and not carry coupon kiosks at all. In addition, retailers, some of which have significantly more resources than we do, may decide to create their own in-store coupon kiosk. An expansion of the companies focused on in-store customized couponing services or a reduction in related fees charged by any of these competitors, or retailer decisions to use floor space for other than interactive customer marketing, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may be unable to attract new retailers and penetrate new markets and distribution channels. In order to increase our coupon kiosk installations, we need to attract new retailers. We may be unable to attract new retailers or drive down costs relating to the manufacture, installation or servicing of the kiosks to levels that would enable us to operate profitably in lower density markets or penetrate new distribution channels. If we are unable to do so, our future operating results could be adversely affected. Events outside of our control, including the current economic environment, has and could continue to negatively affect consumers’ use of our product. Because our business relies on consumers visiting retailers to purchase products, we are dependent on people visiting retailers frequently. If consumers are not visiting the retailer, then our business would be negatively impacted. Our ability to obtain additional funding in the future, if and as needed, through equity issuances or loans, or otherwise meet our current obligations to third parties could be adversely affected if the economic environment continues to be difficult. In addition, the ability of third parties to honor their obligations to us could be affected. RISKS RELATED TO OUR STOCK Our stockholders may experience substantial dilution in the value of their investment if we issue additional shares of our capital stock or other securities convertible into common stock. We have authorized 300,000,000 shares of common stock. As of April 30, 2010, there were 111,260,622 shares issued and outstanding. We have also issued securities that are convertible into our common stock, including convertible notes and warrants. New issues of stock or conversion of our derivative securities into common stock will dilute the ownership of current investors and the value of your investment may decrease. The market for our common stock is volatile, and there is no assurance a strong market will develop. Our common stock (PSCP.PK) is thinly traded and has experienced volatility in its daily stock price and is traded on the Pink Sheets. We believe this volatility will continue until we have consistent business operations and are properly funded. 9 