Risk Factors You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Form 20-F, including the following risk factors, when investing in our securities. The risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we presently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. We could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Our long-term success depends upon the successful development and commercialization of new products. • Our long-term viability and growth will depend upon the successful discovery, development and commercialization of other products from our research and development (“R&D”) activities. We are committed to significant expenditure on R&D. However, there is no certainty that this investment in research and development will yield technically feasible or commercially viable products. Development of new diagnostic tests is subject to very stringent regulatory control and very significant costs in research, development and marketing. Failure to introduce new products could significantly slow our growth and adversely affect our market share. Technological advances in the industry could render our products obsolete. • We have invested in research and development but there can be no guarantees that our R&D programmes will not be rendered technologically obsolete or financially non-viable by the technological advances of our competitors, which would also adversely affect our existing product lines and inventory. The main competitors of Trinity Biotech (and their principal products with which Trinity Biotech competes) include Siemens (Immulite™, Enzygnost®), Inverness Medical Innovations, Inc. (Determine™, Wampole™, Athena™), Diasorin Inc. (Liasion™, ETIMAX™), Abbott Diagnostics (AxSYM™, IMx™), Bio-Rad (ELISA, WB, Bioplex™ & A1c), Roche Diagnostics (COBAS AMPLICOR™, Ampliscreen™, Accutrend™) and OraSure Technologies, Inc (OraQuick ®). We may be unable to protect or obtain proprietary rights that we utilize or intend to utilize. • In developing and manufacturing our products, we employ a variety of proprietary and patented technologies. In addition, we have licensed, and expect to continue to license, various complementary technologies and methods from academic institutions and public and private companies. We cannot provide any assurance that the technologies that we own or license provide protection from competitive threats or from challenges to our intellectual property. In addition, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be successful in obtaining licenses or proprietary or patented technologies in the future. 3 Table of Contents Our business is heavily regulated and non-compliance with applicable regulations could reduce revenues and profitability. • Our manufacturing and marketing of diagnostic test kits are subject to government regulation in the United States of America by the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), and by comparable regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. The approval process for our products, while variable across countries, is generally lengthy, time consuming, detailed and expensive. Our continued success is dependent on our ability to develop and market new products, some of which are currently awaiting approval from these regulatory authorities. There is no certainty that such approval will be granted or, even once granted, will not be revoked during the continuing review and monitoring process. • We are required to comply with extensive post market regulatory requirements. Non-compliance with applicable regulatory requirements of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory bodies can result in enforcement action which may include recalling products, ceasing product marketing, paying significant fines and penalties, and similar actions that could limit product sales, delay product shipment, and adversely affect profitability. Our business could be adversely affected by changing market conditions. • The diagnostics industry is in transition with a number of changes that affect the market for diagnostic test products. Changes in the healthcare industry delivery system have resulted in major consolidation among reference laboratories and in the formation of multi-hospital alliances, reducing the number of institutional customers for diagnostic test products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into and/or sustain contractual or other marketing or distribution arrangements on a satisfactory commercial basis with these institutional customers. Future acquisitions may be less successful than expected, and therefore, growth may be limited. • Trinity Biotech has historically grown organically and through the acquisition of, and investment in, other companies, product lines and technologies. There can be no guarantees that recent or future acquisitions can be successfully assimilated or that projected growth in revenues or synergies in operating costs can be achieved. Our ability to integrate future acquisitions may also be adversely affected by inexperience in dealing with new technologies, and changes in regulatory or competitive environments. Additionally, even during a successful integration, the investment of management’s time and resources in the new enterprise may be detrimental to the consolidation and growth of our existing business. Our revenues are highly dependent on a network of distributors worldwide. • Trinity Biotech currently distributes its product portfolio through distributors in approximately 75 countries worldwide. Our continuing economic success and financial security is dependent on our ability to secure effective channels of distribution on favourable trading terms with suitable distributors. Our patent applications could be rejected or the existing patents could be challenged; our technologies could be subject to patent infringement claims; and trade secrets and confidential know-how could be obtained by competitors. • We can provide no assurance that the patents Trinity Biotech may apply for will be obtained or that existing patents will not be challenged. The patents owned by Trinity Biotech and its subsidiaries may be challenged by third parties through litigation and could adversely affect the value of our patents. We can provide no assurance that our patents will continue to be commercially valuable. • Trinity Biotech currently owns 6 US patents with remaining patent lives varying from less than one year to 16 years. In addition to these US patents, Trinity Biotech owns a total of 5 additional non-US patents with expiration dates varying between the years 2011 and 2023. 4 Table of Contents • Also, our technologies could be subject to claims of infringement of patents or proprietary technology owned by others. The cost of enforcing our patent and technology rights against infringers or defending our patents and technologies against infringement charges by others may be high and could adversely affect our business. • Trade secrets and confidential know-how are important to our scientific and commercial success. Although we seek to protect our proprietary information through confidentiality agreements and other contracts, we can provide no assurance that others will not independently develop the same or similar information or gain access to our proprietary information. Trinity Biotech may be subject to liability resulting from its products or services. • Trinity Biotech may be subject to claims for personal injuries or other damages resulting from its products or services. Trinity Biotech has global product liability insurance in place for its manufacturing subsidiaries up to a maximum of €6,500,000 (US$8,679,000) for any one accident, limited to a maximum of €6,500,000 (US$8,679,000) in any one year period of insurance. A deductible of US$25,000 is applicable to each insurance event that may arise. There can be no assurance that our product liability insurance is sufficient to protect us against liability that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Significant interruptions in production at our principal manufacturing facilities and/or third-party manufacturing facilities would adversely affect our business and operating results. • Products manufactured at our facilities in Bray, Ireland, Jamestown, New York, Kansas City Missouri and Carlsbad, California comprised approximately 76% of revenues in 2010. Our global supply of these products and services is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of these facilities. In addition, we currently rely on a small number of third-party manufacturers to produce certain of our diagnostic products and product components. The operations of our facilities or these third-party manufacturing facilities could be adversely affected by fire, power failures, natural or other disasters, such as earthquakes, floods, or terrorist threats. Although we carry insurance to protect against certain business interruptions at our facilities, there can be no assurance that such coverage will be adequate or that such coverage will continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. Any significant interruption in the Group’s or third-party manufacturing capabilities could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We are highly dependent on our senior management team and other key employees, and the loss of one or more of these employees could adversely affect our operations. • Trinity Biotech’s success is dependent on certain key management personnel. Our key employees at December 31, 2010 were Ronan O’Caoimh, our CEO and Chairman, Rory Nealon, our COO, Jim Walsh, our Chief Scientific Officer and Kevin Tansley, our CFO/Company Secretary. If such key employees were to leave and we were unable to obtain adequate replacements, our operating results could be adversely affected. We are dependent on suppliers for the primary raw materials required for its test kits. • The primary raw materials required for Trinity Biotech’s test kits consist of antibodies, antigens or other reagents, glass fibre and packaging materials which are acquired from third parties. Although Trinity Biotech does not expect to be dependent upon any one source for these raw materials, alternative sources of antibodies with the characteristics and quality desired by Trinity Biotech may not be available. Such unavailability could affect the quality of our products and our ability to meet orders for specific products. 5 Table of Contents We could be adversely affected by healthcare reform legislation. • Changes in government policy could have a significant impact on our business by increasing the cost of doing business, affecting our ability to sell our products and negatively impacting our profitability. The newly enacted Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act imposes a new 2.3% excise tax on medical device makers beginning in 2013, which could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and our cash flows. At present, given the infancy of the enacted reform, we are unable to predict what effect the legislation might ultimately have on reimbursement rates for our products. If reimbursement amounts for diagnostic testing services are decreased in the future, such decreases may reduce the amount that will be reimbursed to hospitals or physicians for such services and consequently could place constraints on the levels of overall pricing, which could have a material effect on our sales and/or results of operations. Other elements of this legislation could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed and delivered, and may materially impact numerous aspects of our business. Global economic conditions may have a material adverse impact on our results. • We currently generate significant operating cash flows, which combined with access to the credit markets provides us with discretionary funding capacity for research and development and other strategic activities. Current uncertainty in global economic conditions poses a risk to the overall economy that could impact demand for our products, as well as our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors, including financial institutions. If global economic conditions deteriorate significantly, our business could be negatively impacted, including such areas as reduced demand for our products from a slow-down in the general economy, supplier or customer disruptions resulting from tighter credit markets and/or temporary interruptions in our ability to conduct day-to-day transactions through our financial intermediaries involving the payment to or collection of funds from our customers, vendors and suppliers. Our sales and operations are subject to the risks of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. • A substantial portion of our operations are in Ireland and Europe is one of our main sales territories. As a result, changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the euro can have significant effects on our results of operations. The conversion of our outstanding employee share options and warrants would dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. • The warrants issued in 2008 and 2010 and the total share options exercisable at December 2010, as described in Item 18, note 19 to the consolidated financial statements, are convertible into American Depository Shares (ADSs), 1 ADS representing 4 Class “A” Ordinary Shares. The exercise of the share options exercisable and of the warrants will likely occur only when the conversion price is below the trading price of our ADSs and will dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. For instance, should the options and warrant holders of the 5,226,413 ‘A’ Ordinary shares (1,306,603 ADSs) exercisable at December 31, 2010 be exercised, Trinity Biotech would have to issue 5,226,413 additional ‘A’ ordinary shares (1,306,603 ADSs). On the basis of 84,116,865 ‘A’ ordinary shares outstanding at December 31, 2010, this would effectively dilute the ownership interest of the existing shareholders by approximately 6%. It could be difficult for US holders of ADSs to enforce any securities laws claims against Trinity Biotech, its officers or directors in Irish Courts. • At present, no treaty exists between the United States and Ireland for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgements. The laws of Ireland do however, as a general rule, provide that the judgements of the courts of the United States have in Ireland the same validity as if rendered by Irish Courts. Certain important requirements must be satisfied before the Irish Courts will recognize the United States judgement. The originating court must have been a court of competent jurisdiction, the judgement may not be recognized if it is based on public policy, was obtained by fraud or its recognition would be contrary to Irish public policy. Any judgement obtained in contravention of the rules of natural justice will not be enforced in Ireland. 6 Table of Contents 