ITEM 1A: Risk Factors (continued) The Warrants are exercisable until October 24, 2016 at a price of $.04 per share (subject to certain adjustments) and entitle the holder to purchase 1,250,000 shares of the Company’s Common Stock for each $25,000 of principal amount of Senior Notes. The investors have entered into an Investors’ Rights Agreement which among other things, provides for Board representation, registration rights, and certain provisions regarding future sales of securities by the Company. In prior rounds of financing, described in Note 4 Debt, the Company issued certain warrants, rights convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for common stock (collectively the "Derivative Securities"). The Derivative Securities contain certain anti-dilution provisions, which provide for adjustment of the conversion price, exercise price or number of shares issuable, upon the occurrence of certain events. The Purchase Agreement required the Company, within 90 days of the closing date, to obtain from the holders of the Derivative Securities, a waiver, except in the case of any capital reorganization, split, combination or subdivision or reclassification, of any anti-dilution adjustments, it may have with respect to the Derivative Securities. In the event the Company is unable to obtain waivers from all of the holders of the Derivative Securities, the investors under the terms of the Purchase Agreement will be entitled to an adjustment of the conversion price, exercise price and the number of shares of common stock issuable to them under the Purchase Agreement. The market for our common stock is volatile, and there is no assurance a strong market will develop. Our common stock (CPXP.PK) is thinly traded and has experienced volatility in its daily stock price. We believe this volatility will continue until we have consistent business operations and are properly funded. The equity markets may experience periods of volatility, which could result in highly variable and unpredictable pricing of equity securities. The market price of our common stock could change in ways that may or may not be related to our business, our industry or our operating performance and financial condition and could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock. We cannot predict the potential impact of these periods of volatility on the price of our common stock. The Company cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 