Risk Factors The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating the Company’s business and the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results or financial condition and could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those anticipated. Competition The apparel industry is highly competitive. The Company competes with numerous domestic and foreign designers, brands and manufacturers of apparel, accessories and other products. Some of these designers and manufacturers are significantly larger and have greater resources than the Company. Management believes that the Company’s ability to compete effectively depends upon its continued flexibility in responding to market demand and its ability to offer fashion conscious consumers a wide variety of high quality apparel at competitive prices. Changes in Fashion Trends The Company believes that its success depends in substantial part on its ability to anticipate, gauge and respond to changing consumer demand and fashion trends in a timely manner. The Company attempts to minimize the risk of changing fashion trends and product acceptance by closely monitoring retail sales trends. However, if fashion trends shift away from the Company’s products, or if the Company otherwise misjudges the market for its product lines, it may be faced with a significant amount of unsold finished goods inventory or other conditions which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Uncertainties in Apparel Retailing The apparel industry historically has been subject to substantial cyclical variations, and a recession in the general economy or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect consumer spending habits 13 Table of Contents could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s current credit and collection arrangements seek to mitigate the risk of bankruptcy of a customer which continues to operate and carry the Company’s products. However, financial problems of a retailer could cause the Company’s credit companies to limit the amount of receivables of such retailer that the Company may assign to the credit companies and credit insurance company, which may cause the Company to curtail business with such retailer or require the Company to assume more credit risk relating to such customer’s receivables. Dependence on Customers Under Common Control The Company’s department store customers include major United States retailers, certain of which are under common ownership. When considered together as a group under common ownership, sales to the department store customers which were owned by Federated Department Stores, Dillard’s Department Stores and May Department Stores accounted for approximately 9%, 6% and 6%, respectively, of the Company’s fiscal 2005 consolidated net revenue. In February 2005, Federated Department Stores and May Department Stores announced a merger, which closed in August 2005. A decision by the controlling owner of a group of department stores to modify those customers’ relationships with the Company—for example, by decreasing the amount purchased from the Company, focusing on promotion of its private label brands rather than the Company’s products, ceasing to carry certain of the Company’s products, modifying floor space allocated to apparel in general (or for our products specifically) or requiring economic terms that are less favorable to the Company than the economic terms of the Company’s current relationship with those department stores—could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Sourcing The Company does not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and is therefore dependent upon third parties for the manufacture of all of its products. The inability of a manufacturer to ship orders of the Company’s products in a timely manner, including as a result of local financial market disruption which could impair the ability of such suppliers to finance their operations, or to meet quality standards, could cause the Company to miss the delivery date requirements of its customers for those items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, travel restrictions arising due to health concerns or other factors could limit the Company’s ability to select and monitor its suppliers, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s quality standards and ability to meet customer orders. Finally, the violation of labor or other laws by a manufacturing or licensing partner of the Company or the divergence of that manufacturer’s or licensing partner’s labor practices from the labor practices generally accepted in the United States, could interrupt or constrain the entity’s ability to ship orders of the Company’s products in a timely manner and could damage the Company’s reputation. The Company has no long-term formal arrangements with any of its suppliers and historically has experienced only limited difficulty in satisfying its raw material and finished goods requirements. Although the Company believes it could replace such suppliers without a material adverse effect on the Company, there can be no assurance that such suppliers could be replaced in a timely manner, and the loss of such suppliers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s short-term operating results. In addition, the Company’s business is subject to risks associated with imports, as the Company imports most of its finished goods. Total production outside the United States accounts for approximately 90% of the Company’s total costs of products purchased annually. The Company’s production in NAFTA countries (i.e., the United States, Mexico and Canada) amounts to approximately 16% of the cost of products purchased annually. Production in China represents approximately 15% of the cost of products purchased during fiscal year 2005. Pursuant to the World Trade Organization (“WTO”) Agreement, effective January 1, 2005, the United States and other WTO member countries removed quotas on goods from WTO members. However, as the removal of quotas resulted in an import surge from China, the United States took action in May 2005 and imposed safeguard quotas on certain categories of goods. On June 10, 2005, in response to the surge of Chinese imports into the 14 Table of Contents European Union (“EU”), the EU Commission signed a Memorandum of Understanding with China, pursuant to which certain products will be subject to restraints. These quotas, as well as the imposition of other regulations by foreign jurisdictions relating to imports or exports, may affect our ability to import products in the future. Licensing Partners Approximately 4% of the Company’s net revenue and 42% of income from operations for fiscal 2005 was derived from licensing revenue received from its licensing partners. Many of the risks associated with the Company’s own operations also apply to the businesses and operations of its licensing partners. Specifically, the licensing partners may face risks affecting their ability to adequately finance their operations, manage their labor forces or sustain favorable relationships with their customers. Adverse effects on these licensing partners relating to any such risks may, depending on their magnitude, materially adversely affect the Company’s short-term operating results. In addition, although the Company believes that, in most circumstances, the existing licensing partners could be replaced, the Company’s failure or inability to do so in any given circumstance may adversely affect its revenues and short term operating results. Intellectual Property The Company considers its trademarks and other proprietary intellectual property rights to be significant to its business. Although the Company continuously seeks to ensure the protection of its intellectual property, it may not be able to prevent, among other things, the imitation of our products by third parties or to successfully resolve other challenges involving its intellectual property rights, and any of these matters may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Tax Matters THC was incorporated in 1992 as an International Business Company in the BVI and is also registered and licensed as an external International Business Company in Barbados, where it has established residency for tax purposes. In addition, certain of THC’s non-United States subsidiaries are incorporated in the BVI and other countries and are subject to taxation in those or other countries where the applicable statutory tax rates are substantially lower than those applicable to the Company’s United States subsidiaries. As a result, the Company’s overall effective tax rate is materially affected by the relative level of earnings in the various taxing jurisdictions to which the Company’s earnings are subject. THC has not provided for tax on the undistributed retained earnings of these non-United States subsidiaries, as the Company has invested or expects to invest the undistributed earnings indefinitely in those businesses. The Company is a tax resident of Barbados and therefore was entitled to the benefits of an income tax treaty between Barbados and the United States. In July 2004, the United States and Barbados signed a protocol to the treaty, which was ratified by the U.S. Senate in October 2004, and ratified by the government of Barbados in December 2004. As a result, the benefits the Company was entitled to under the treaty, which contributed approximately $10 million to net income in fiscal 2005, and approximately $12 million of net income in each of the fiscal years 2004 and 2003, have been eliminated as to future periods. The Company is periodically examined by various federal, state and local and international taxing authorities. The tax years under examination vary by jurisdiction. The Company regularly considers the likelihood of assessments in each of the taxing jurisdictions and has established tax allowances which represent management’s best estimate of the potential assessments. The resolution of any of these tax matters could differ from the amount reserved. While that difference could be material to the results of operations and cash flows for any affected reporting period, it is not expected to have a material impact on consolidated financial position or consolidated liquidity. A significant shift in the relative sources of the Company’s earnings, or changes in tax treaties, laws, rules or interpretations, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and cash flow. 15 Table of Contents Hong Kong Tax Matters The Company initiated discussions in May 2005 with the Hong Kong Inland Revenue Department (“IRD”) in an effort to resolve any issues concerning whether its wholly-owned subsidiary Tommy Hilfiger (Eastern Hemisphere) Limited (“THEH”) is subject to profits tax in Hong Kong, and if so, the portion of THEH’s income that is subject to that tax. Several domestic and international subsidiaries of the Company pay buying office commissions to THEH, a British Virgin Islands corporation pursuant to contracts to provide or otherwise secure through third parties certain services, including product development, sourcing, production scheduling and quality control functions. In the course of these discussions, the Company made a settlement offer to the IRD to resolve this issue that was not accepted and discussions are ongoing. Accordingly, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate resolution of this matter, although the Company does not believe that the final resolution will have a material effect on the Company’s financial position. International Operations The Company’s ability to conduct business and capitalize on growth opportunities in international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations, including the challenges of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and new tariffs, taxes or other barriers to some international markets. The Company is also subject to general political and economic risks in connection with the Company’s international operations, including political instability, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships and general economic or currency fluctuations in specific countries or markets. The Company cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the United States, the European Union or other countries upon the import or export of the Company’s products in the future, or the effect any of these actions would have on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in regulatory, geopolitical policies and other factors may adversely affect the Company’s business in the future or may require the Company to modify our current business practices. Impact of Potential Future Acquisitions From time to time, the Company has pursued acquisitions to further diversify its revenue and earnings base. If one or more acquisitions results in the Company becoming substantially more leveraged on a consolidated basis, the Company’s flexibility in responding to changes in economic, business or market conditions may be adversely affected. The Company’s pursuit of acquisitions may be constrained by Mr. Hilfiger’s employment agreement with the Company, in effect since 1992, which provides in part that TH USA and its subsidiaries cannot enter into any line of business without the consent of Mr. Hilfiger if he shall reasonably determine that such line of business would be detrimental to the Tommy Hilfiger trademarks. Role of Mr. Tommy Hilfiger and Mr. Karl Lagerfeld Mr. Hilfiger has been designing clothes under the Tommy Hilfiger trademarks since 1984 and has provided design leadership to the Company, most recently as its Principal Designer, since its inception. Mr. Hilfiger is therefore closely identified with the brand that bears his name, as well as with the Company in general. Similarly, Mr. Lagerfeld provides leadership and direction for the design processes pertaining to the Company’s Karl Lagerfeld brand. The Company anticipates significant opportunities for its Karl Lagerfeld brand, and is investing significantly for that brand’s long-term success in the United States and abroad. The Company has developed and maintained essential design teams which it believes are capable of sustaining the design process for Tommy Hilfiger brands in the event of loss of services of Mr. Hilfiger. Similarly, design teams are being developed to support and sustain the design process for Karl Lagerfeld brands in the event of loss of services of Mr. Lagerfeld. However, the loss of the services of either Mr. Hilfiger or Mr. Lagerfeld, or any negative public perception with respect to or relating to the Company’s loss of either of them could adversely affect the Company and its businesses. 16 Table of Contents 