ITEM 1A: Risk Factors Discussion of our business and operations included in this annual report on Form 10-K should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. They describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are or may become subject. These risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material and adverse manner. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. Each of the risks described below could adversely impact the value of our securities. These statements, like all statements in this report, speak only as of the date of this report (unless another date is indicated), and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the statements in light of future developments. We cannot assure you that the Company will be successful in commercializing any of the Company’s products and, in particular, our proprietary kiosks, or if any of the products will prove to be profitable for the Company. The Company has only had a limited operating history and has just commenced generating revenue from operations upon which an evaluation of its prospects can be made. The Company’s prospects must be considered keeping in mind the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered in the establishment of a new business in a constantly changing industry. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to achieve profitable operations in the foreseeable future if at all. The Company has identified a number of specific risk areas that may affect the Company’s operations and results in the future. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our independent auditors have issued a going concern opinion and, if we are unable to generate enough financing or cash from operations to sustain our business, then we may have to liquidate assets or curtail our operations. In its audit report dated February 4, 2013 for the years ended October 31, 2012 and 2011, the opinion of our independent registered public accounting firm, Patrick Rodgers, CPA, PA, was qualified only as to the uncertainty of our ability to continue as a going concern. Most notably, significant recurring net losses through October 31, 2012 raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. During the fiscal year that ended October 31, 2012, we incurred net loss to common shareholders of $3,838,773. We will need to generate significant revenues in order to achieve profitability. 4 We are a development stage company with a limited operating history and expect to continue to incur losses and as such, may never achieve profitability. We are currently in the development stage, and are the surviving entity of several former corporate incarnations. Over the past several years, we have been principally engaged in organizational, licensing, financing, technology protection, and marketing activities. We are subject to all of the risks inherent to the establishment of a developing business. The potential for success should be considered in light of the unforeseen problems, delays, complications, and added expenses often encountered with a development stage business and the status quo of the environment in which we will operate. We do not have a history of operations from which shareholders and investors can draw reasonable conclusions as to our future performance, and there can be no assurances that we will ever operate profitably or be commercially successful. We have incurred significant operating losses since inception. As a result, we continue to report negative cash flows from operations. There can be no assurance that our efforts to reduce negative cash flows will be successful, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The termination, non-renewal or renegotiation on materially adverse terms of our contracts with one or more of our retailers could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The success of our business depends in large part on our ability to develop and maintain relationships with retailers. We strive to provide direct and indirect benefits to our retailers that are superior to or competitive with other providers or systems or alternative uses of the floor space that our machines occupy. If we are unable to provide our retailers with adequate benefits, we may be unable to maintain or renew our contractual relationships on acceptable terms causing our business, financial condition and results of operations to suffer. We must be able to adapt to rapidly changing technology trends and evolving industry standards or we risk our products becoming obsolete. There are numerous risks associated with the development and commercialization of new products, including the risk of unforeseen delays and expenses, and the uncertainty of market acceptance. Currently, we have limited sources of revenue, whether from services or product sales, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to develop such revenue sources or that our operations will become profitable. We may be unable to identify and define product and service trends or anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. Our strategy is based upon leveraging our core competencies in the automated retail space to provide the consumer with convenience and value and to help retailers drive incremental traffic and revenue. If we cannot execute on our strategy, our business could suffer. To be competitive, we need to develop or otherwise provide product and service offerings that are accepted by the market and establish third-party relationships necessary to develop and commercialize such product and service offerings. If we misjudge the market for our products and services or unable to enhance the capabilities of our kiosks and equipment to meet technology demand, we cannot assure you that the products or services that we provide will be successful. Because we do not have our own manufacturing facilities and must rely on contractual relationships to fulfill our manufacturing needs, our dependency could result in lost revenue if such relationships are terminated. We do not have manufacturing facilities, nor do we presently intend to manufacture any of our products. Thus, we will be dependent upon relationships with manufacturers to fulfill our product needs. Our ability to market our product requires that certain products be manufactured in commercial quantities and at an acceptable cost. We have no prior experience in manufacturing and will be materially dependent upon others in these respects. In June 2011, the Company entered into a Master Leasing Agreement with Yellow Box Leasing LLC (“Yellow Box”). The terms of the agreement provide up to $1.25 million in equipment lease financing for our kiosks. However, Yellow Box has advised the Company that they are presently unable to finance the purchase of additional kiosks. Until such time as we are able to obtain suitable replacement equipment financing, or Yellow Box resumes financing our kiosks, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to acquire additional kiosks. We rely on outside software developers to develop our key product and are subject to their timelines for deployment, unforeseen delays, and problem resolution. We continue to develop proprietary software, interfaces, and hardware for our kiosks. There are many risks associated with the development of proprietary software, including the risk of unforeseen delays and expenses. 5 The loss of key members of our senior management team could adversely affect our business. Currently, we are managed by Eric L. Kash, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Kash will continue to play a key role in our management, and the loss of his services could adversely affect our business and our prospects. We currently have an employment agreement with Mr. Kash. We intend to expand our management team by attracting senior management with relevant, current expertise. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining additional technical, marketing, and management personnel as may be required to fully implement our short and long-term business plans. Our inability to attract, hire or retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We will need to attract, retain and motivate skilled technical and managerial personnel, especially highly skilled engineers involved in ongoing product development and consulting personnel who assist in the development and implementation of our total business solutions. The market for such individuals is intensely competitive. Due to the critical role of our product development and consulting staff, the inability to recruit successfully or the loss of a significant part of our product development or consulting staffs could have a material adverse effect on us. The software industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting of skilled personnel. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to retain our current personnel, or that we will be able to attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified technical and managerial personnel in the future. The inability to attract, hire or retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. If our products and services do not gain market acceptance, our business will suffer because we might not be able to fund future operations. A number of factors may affect the market acceptance of our products or any other products we develop or acquire, including, among others: • the price of our products relative to other company’s services for the same purpose; • the perception by retailers of the effectiveness of our products and the benefit to them; • our ability to fund our sales and marketing efforts; and • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. If our products do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to fund future operations, including developing, testing and obtaining regulatory approval for new product candidates and expanding our sales and marketing efforts for our approved products, which would cause our business to suffer. We are highly dependent on a limited number of clients, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We currently sell systems and services to a limited market. We can provide no assurance that the loss of one or more of these retailers will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We depend on our installed client base for revenues from services. If existing retailers fail to renew their agreements, our revenues could decrease. We may have difficulty implementing our products, which could consequently damage our reputation and our ability to generate new business. Implementation of our software products can be a lengthy process, and commitment of resources by our clients is subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little or no control. Delays in the implementations of any of our products, whether by our business partners or us, may result in client dissatisfaction, disputes with customers, or damage to our reputation. Significant problems implementing our software can cause delays or can damage our ability to generate new business. 6 Errors or defects in our products could diminish demand for our products, injure our reputation and reduce our operating results. Our products are complex and may contain errors that could be detected at any point during the life of the product. Errors may be found in new products or releases after shipment. Such errors could result in diminished demand for our products, delays in market acceptance and sales, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation or increased service and warranty costs. If any of these were to occur, our operating results could be adversely affected. Because we operate in a highly competitive market, there are no assurances that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors and/or become profitable. The market for retail information systems is intensely competitive. We believe that the principal competitive factors are product quality, reliability, performance and price, vendor and product reputation, financial stability, features and functions, ease of use, and quality of support. In addition, we believe that new market entrants may attempt to develop fully integrated systems targeting the retail industry. Many of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, we compete with a variety of hardware and software vendors. Some of our competitors may have advantages over us due to their significant worldwide presence, longer operating and product development history, and substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources. If competitors offer more favorable payment terms and/or more favorable contractual implementation terms or guarantees, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. Any such changes would likely reduce our margins. We are currently involved in litigation, which could be time-consuming and costly to defend, and could also have a negative outcome for our business. The Company is involved in a dispute over a services contract. S.O.S. Resources (“SOS”) and its president claim that SOS fully performed under an agreement with the Company and is entitled to receive 3,110,000 shares of our registered common stock, and later asserted that they would seek a sum of $1,191,600 from the Company. The Company believes that SOS and its president did not perform under the contract, and intends to vigorously defend itself against such claim as well as file a claim for fraud against SOS and its president. The Company believes that the suit filed by SOS and its president is without merit; however, we will have to pay costs associated with arbitrating this claim. The Company has settled an action commenced by the law firm Cozen O’Connor seeking payment of approximately $195,000 in legal fees for services allegedly rendered by the firm in 2007. The Company has agreed to remit the sum of $3,000 per month for thirty (30) months, commencing on August 1, 2012 with a final payment of $114,670.66 due on January 1, 2015. An action has been commenced against the Company seeking legal fees in the sum of approximately $47,700 allegedly incurred in connection with a Settlement Agreement dated April 13, 2009. The Company has settled this matter by agreeing to pay the total sum of $35,000, payable, (i) $15,000 upon the execution of a settlement agreement; (ii) $10,000, on the 120th day following the execution of the settlement agreement; and (iii) $10,000 on the 240th day following the execution of the settlement agreement. Competitive pressures could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our product faces competition from a variety of a variety of other in-store systems, including Coinstar, Inc. and its subsidiary, Redbox. Our retailers may choose to replace our coupon kiosks with competitor machines or may decide that floor space could be used for other purposes and not carry coupon kiosks at all. In addition, retailers, some of which have significantly more resources than we do, may decide to create their own in-store coupon kiosk. An expansion of the companies focused on in-store customized couponing services or a reduction in related fees charged by any of these competitors, or retailer decisions to use floor space for other than interactive customer marketing, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may be unable to attract new retailers and penetrate new markets and distribution channels. In order to increase our coupon kiosk installations, we need to attract new retailers. We may be unable to attract new retailers or drive down costs relating to the manufacture, installation or servicing of the kiosks to levels that would enable us to operate profitably in lower density markets or penetrate new distribution channels. If we are unable to do so, our future operating results could be adversely affected. 7 Events outside of our control, including the current economic environment, has and could continue to negatively affect consumers’ use of our product. Because our business relies on consumers visiting retailers to purchase products, we are dependent on people visiting retailers frequently. If consumers are not visiting the retailer, then our business would be negatively impacted. Our ability to obtain additional funding in the future, if and as needed, through equity issuances or loans, or otherwise meet our current obligations to third parties could be adversely affected if the economic environment continues to be difficult. In addition, the ability of third parties to honor their obligations to us could be affected. The protection of our intellectual property may be uncertain, and we may face possible claims of others. Although we have filed patent applications with respect to certain aspects of our technology, we generally do not rely on patent production with respect to our products and technologies. Instead, we rely primarily on a combination of trade secrets and copyright law, employee and third-party non-disclosure agreements and other protective measures to protect intellectual property rights pertaining to our products and technologies. Such measures may not provide meaningful protection of our trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure. Others may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate our technologies. In addition, to the extent that we apply for any patents, such applications may not result in issued patents or, if issued, such patents may not be valid or of value. Third parties could, in the future, assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect to our current or future products and technologies, or we may need to asset claims of infringement against third parties. Any infringement or misappropriation claim by us or against us could place significant strain on our financial resources, divert management’s attention from our business and harm our reputation. The costs of prosecuting or defending an intellectual property claim could be substantial and could adversely affect our business, even if we are ultimately successful in prosecuting or defending any such claims. If our products or technologies are found to infringe the rights of a third party, we could be required to pay significant damages or license fees or cease production, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If a claim is brought against us, or we ultimately prove unsuccessful on the claims on our merits, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. General Market Risks We may not be able to access credit. We face the risk that we may not be able to access credit, either from lenders or suppliers, or have facilities reduced or terminated. Failure to access credit from any of these sources could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Recent global economic trends could adversely affect our business, liquidity and financial results. Recent global economic conditions, including disruption of financial markets, could adversely affect us, primarily through limiting our access to capital and disrupting our clients’ businesses. In addition, continuation or worsening of general market conditions in economies important to our businesses may adversely affect our clients’ level of spending and ability to obtain financing, leading to us being unable to generate the levels of sales that we require. Current and continued disruption of financial markets could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We may not be able to maintain effective internal controls. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal accounting controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause us to face regulatory action and also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, either of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. 8 RISKS RELATED TO OUR STOCK Our stockholders may experience substantial dilution in the value of their investment if we issue additional shares of our capital stock or other securities convertible into common stock. We have authorized 800,000,000 shares of Common Stock. As of October 31, 2012, there were 272,203,802 shares of Common Stock issued and outstanding. We have also issued securities that are convertible into our Common Stock, including Series A Preferred Stock, convertible notes and warrants. New issues of stock or conversion or exercise of our derivative securities into common stock will dilute the ownership of current investors and the value of your investment may decrease. Our recent offerings of Convertible Senior Notes and Warrants may limit our ability to raise additional capital and/or take certain corporate action. In October 2011, May 2012 and July 2012, we completed a private placement of $2,760,500 aggregate principal amount of Cumulative Convertible Senior Notes (“Senior Notes”) and Warrants to certain investors, that included the Company’s existing holders of Series A Preferred Stock (the “Preferred Stock”). In August 2012, the Senior Notes were converted into 110.42 shares of Preferred Stock. In December 2012, we issued an additional 9.58 shares of Preferred Stock and Warrants for proceeds of $239,500. The shares of Preferred Stock bear a cumulative dividend of 7% per annum. Upon liquidation, and upon an acquisition of the Company, the holders of Preferred Stock are entitled to a liquidation preference equal to the greater of (i) the amount invested plus all accrued and unpaid dividends, or (ii) the amount the holders of Preferred Stock would receive had they converted the Preferred Stock to Common Stock immediately prior to such event. Each share of Preferred Stock is convertible into 1,250,000 shares of the Company’s Common Stock, subject to certain adjustments. The Certificate of Designation of the Preferred Stock provides that without the consent of a majority of the outstanding Series A Preferred Stock, the Company may not: 1. amend the Articles of Incorporation, by-laws, Certificate of Designation or any other certificate of designation or file any new certificate of designation; 2. issue any Common Stock, Preferred Stock, Common Stock Equivalents or other securities or amend the terms thereof; 3. redeem any outstanding Common Stock, Preferred Stock, Common Stock Equivalents or other securities; 4. incur or repay indebtedness for borrowed money; 5. acquisitions or dispositions of material assets; 6. enter into any acquisition, merger, consolidation, reorganization or similar transaction; 7. create subsidiaries or other affiliates; 8. dissolve, liquidate or wind up or file any petition under insolvency or bankruptcy laws; 9. enter into any contract or arrangement with any present or former director, executive officer, shareholder, partner, member, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or any of such Person’s affiliates or immediate family members; 10. change senior management of the Company; 11. declare or pay dividends or declare or make other distributions other than the Base Dividends; 12. adopt or materially deviate from the business plan or budget adopted by the Board of Directors; or 13. change or revoke the Operations Committee Charter adopted by the Board of Directors, or in any other way disband, dissolve or impair the authority of the Operations Committee. NextLevel VIII, LLC (“NextLevel”) is the majority holder of the Preferred Stock and therefore the Company may not enter into the transactions described above without NextLevel’s consent. The Warrants are exercisable until October 24, 2016 at a price of $.04 per share (subject to certain adjustments) and entitle the holder to purchase 1,250,000 shares of the Company’s Common Stock for each $25,000 of principal amount of Senior Notes. The Preferred Stockholders have entered into an Investors’ Rights Agreement which among other things, provides for Board representation, registration rights, and certain provisions regarding future sales of securities by the Company. In prior rounds of financing, described in Note 4 Debt, the Company issued certain warrants, rights convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for common stock (collectively the “Derivative Securities”). The Derivative Securities contain certain anti-dilution provisions, which provide for adjustment of the conversion price, exercise price or number of shares issuable, upon the occurrence of certain events. The Company, obtained from most of the holders of the unexpired Derivative Securities, a waiver, except in the case of any capital reorganization, split, combination or subdivision or reclassification, of any anti-dilution adjustments, it may have with respect to the Derivative Securities. NextLevel, the majority holder of our Series A Preferred Stock, objected to the offering of $239,500 of Series A Preferred Stock by the Company under the Cumulative Convertible Senior Note and Warranted Purchase Agreement dated May 31, 2012 (the “Purchase Agreement”) in December 2012. 9 NextLevel, the majority holder of our Series A Preferred Stock, objected to the offering of $239,500 of Series A Preferred Stock by us in December 2012 and as such, NextLevel has informed us that it reserves all rights in connection with its objection. Notwithstanding its objection, NextLevel exercised their right of first refusal to purchase an additional 4.1 shares of Series A Preferred Stock. NextLevel, also filed an amended Schedule 13D on November 21, 2012. The amended Schedule 13D, states, amongst other items, the following: “[NextLevel] [is] concerned with the [Company’s] strategic direction and poor operating results. In particular [NextLevel] [is] concerned that management is unable to lead the [Company] responsibly and to properly manage its operations and administer its financial resources. As a result, [NextLevel] may utilize [its] voting and other rights to change or influence control of, and to influence the corporate affairs of, the [Company]. NextLevel has advised the [Company] that consent by NextLevel to further financing would be dependent on a strategic review of the [Company’s] business and agreement on a business plan, strategy and use of proceeds going forward. NextLevel has advised the [Company] that it breached its obligations under the Certificate of Designations by materially deviating from its agreed to budget; specifically, making certain non-budgeted capital expenditures without its consent. Next Level has also advised the [Company] that it has breached certain provisions with respect to the Operations Committee Charter. NextLevel may bring legal claims against the [Company], certain members of the Board and officers in connection with actions or admissions by such persons. NextLevel may also take steps intended to replace senior management, and/or certain or all of the members of the Board not appointed by NextLevel. NextLevel intends to continue to evaluate the business and business prospects of the [Company] and its present and future interest in, and intentions with respect to, the [Company], and in connection therewith may from time to time consult with other stockholders of the [Company], NextLevel also intends to discuss the business and policies of the [Company] with management and the Board on an ongoing basis, and [NextLevel] [reserves] the right to change their intentions with respect to any of the matters described in this filing.” The market for our common stock is volatile, and there is no assurance a strong market will develop. Our common stock (CPXP.PK) is thinly traded and has experienced volatility in its daily stock price. We believe this volatility will continue until we have consistent business operations and are properly funded. The equity markets may experience periods of volatility, which could result in highly variable and unpredictable pricing of equity securities. The market price of our common stock could change in ways that may or may not be related to our business, our industry or our operating performance and financial condition and could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock. We cannot predict the potential impact of these periods of volatility on the price of our common stock. The Company cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 