Risk Factors Before you invest in our shares, you should be aware that there are various risks, which are described below. You should consider carefully these risks together with all of the other information included in this annual report before you decide to purchase our shares. Trinity Biotech’s operating results may be subject to fluctuations. • Trinity Biotech’s operating results may fluctuate as a result of many factors related to its business, including the competitive conditions in the industry, major reorganisations of the Groups activities, loss of significant customers, delays in the development of new products and currency fluctuations, as described in more detail below, and general factors such as the size and timing of orders, the prevalence of various diseases and general economic conditions. In the event of lower operating profits, this could have a negative impact on cash generated from operations and also negatively impact shareholder value. A need for capital might arise in the future if Trinity Biotech’s capital requirements increase or revenues decrease. • Up to now Trinity Biotech has funded its operations through the sale of its shares and securities convertible into shares, cashflows from operations and bank borrowings. Trinity Biotech expects that the proceeds of equity financings, bank borrowings, lease financing, current working capital and sales revenues will fund its existing operations and payment obligations. However, if our capital requirements are greater than expected, or if our revenues do not generate sufficient cashflows to fund our operations, we may need to find additional financing which may not be available on attractive terms or at all. Any future financing could have an adverse effect on our current shareholders or the price of our shares in general. Trinity Biotech’s acquisition strategy may be less successful than expected, and therefore, growth may be limited. • Trinity Biotech has historically grown organically and through the acquisition of, and investment in, other companies, product lines and technologies. There can be no guarantees that recent or future acquisitions can be successfully assimilated or that projected growth in revenues or synergies in operating costs can be achieved. Our ability to integrate future acquisitions may also be adversely affected by inexperience in dealing with new technologies, and changes in regulatory or competitive environments. Additionally, even during a successful integration, the investment of management’s time and resources in the new enterprise may be detrimental to the consolidation and growth of our existing business. The diagnostics industry is highly competitive, and Trinity Biotech’s research and development could be rendered obsolete by technological advances of competitors. • Trinity Biotech’s principal business is the supply of medical diagnostic test kits and related diagnostic instrumentation. The diagnostics industry is extremely competitive. Trinity Biotech is competing directly with companies which have greater capital resources and larger marketing and business organisations than Trinity Biotech. Trinity Biotech’s ability to grow revenue and earnings may be adversely impacted by competitive product and pricing pressures and by its inability to gain or retain market share as a result of the action of competitors. 3 Table of Contents We have invested in research and development (“R&D”) but there can be no guarantees that our R&D programmes will not be rendered technologically obsolete or financially non-viable by the technological advances of our competitors, which would also adversely affect our existing product lines and inventory. The main competitors of Trinity Biotech (and their principal products with which Trinity Biotech competes) include Dade-Behring (Sysmex® CA, D-Dimer plus, Enzygnost®), Zeus Scientific Inc. (Zeus EIA, IFA), Diasorin Inc. (ETI™), Abbott Diagnostics (AxSYM™, IMx™), Diagnostic Products Corp. — DPC (Immulite™), Bio-Rad (ELISA, WB & A1c), Roche Diagnostics (COBAS AMPLICOR™, Ampliscreen™, Accutrend™) and OraSure Technologies, Inc (OraQuick ®). Trinity Biotech is highly dependent on suitable distributors worldwide. • Trinity Biotech currently distributes its product portfolio through distributors in approximately 80 countries worldwide. Our continuing economic success and financial security is dependent on our ability to secure effective channels of distribution on favourable trading terms with suitable distributors. Trinity Biotech’s business could be adversely affected by changing market conditions resulting in the reduction of the number of institutional customers. • The diagnostics industry is in transition with a number of changes that affect the market for diagnostic test products. Changes in the healthcare industry delivery system have resulted in major consolidation among reference laboratories and in the formation of multi-hospital alliances, reducing the number of institutional customers for diagnostic test products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into and/or sustain contractual or other marketing or distribution arrangements on a satisfactory commercial basis with these institutional customers. Trinity Biotech’s long-term success depends on its ability to develop new products subject to stringent regulatory control. Even if new products are successfully developed, Trinity Biotech’s proprietary know-how, manufacturing techniques and trade secrets may be copied by competitors. Furthermore, Trinity Biotech’s patents have a limited life time and are thereafter subject to competition with generic products. Also, competitors might claim an exclusive patent for products Trinity Biotech plans to develop. • We are committed to significant expenditure on research and development (“R&D”). However, there is no certainty that this investment in research and development will yield technically feasible or commercially viable products. Our organic growth and long-term success is dependent on our ability to develop and market new products but this work is subject to very stringent regulatory control and very significant costs in research, development and marketing. Failure to introduce new products could significantly slow our growth and adversely affect our market share. • Even when products are successfully developed and marketed, Trinity Biotech’s ownership of the technology behind these products has a finite life. In general, generic competition, which can arise through replication of the Trinity Biotech’s proprietary know-how, manufacturing techniques and trade secrets or after the expiration of a patent, can have a detrimental effect on a product’s revenue, profitability and market share. There can be no guarantee that the net income and financial position of Trinity Biotech will not be adversely affected by competition from generic products. Conversely, on occasion, certain companies have claimed exclusive patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies in the diagnostics industry. If these technologies relate to Trinity Biotech’s planned products, Trinity Biotech would be obliged to seek licences to use this technology and, in the event of being unable to obtain such licences or it being obtainable on grounds that would be materially disadvantageous to Trinity Biotech, we would be precluded from marketing such products, which could adversely impact our revenues, sales and financial position. 4 Table of Contents Trinity Biotech’s patent applications could be rejected or the existing patents could be challenged; our technologies could be subject to patent infringement claims; and trade secrets and confidential know-how could be obtained by competitors. • We can provide no assurance that the patents Trinity Biotech may apply for will be obtained or that existing patents will not be challenged. The patents owned by Trinity Biotech and its subsidiaries may be challenged by third parties through litigation and could adversely affect the value of our patents. We can provide no assurance that our patents will continue to be commercially valuable. • Trinity Biotech currently owns 30 US patents with remaining patent lives varying from less than one year to 16 years. In addition to these US patents, Trinity Biotech owns a total of 7 additional non-US patents with expiration dates varying between the years 2008 and 2023. • Also, our technologies could be subject to claims of infringement of patents or proprietary technology owned by others. The cost of enforcing our patent and technology rights against infringers or defending our patents and technologies against infringement charges by others may be high and could adversely affect our business. • Trade secrets and confidential know-how are important to our scientific and commercial success. Although we seek to protect our proprietary information through confidentiality agreements and other contracts, we can provide no assurance that others will not independently develop the same or similar information or gain access to our proprietary information. Trinity Biotech’s business is heavily regulated and non-compliance with applicable regulations could reduce revenues and profitability. • Our manufacturing and marketing of diagnostic test kits are subject to government regulation in the United States of America by the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), and by comparable regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. The approval process for our products, while variable across countries, is generally lengthy, time consuming, detailed and expensive. Our continued success is dependent on our ability to develop and market new products, some of which are currently awaiting approval from these regulatory authorities. There is no certainty that such approval will be granted or, even once granted, will not be revoked during the continuing review and monitoring process. • We are required to comply with extensive post market regulatory requirements. Non-compliance with applicable regulatory requirements of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory bodies can result in enforcement action which may include recalling products, ceasing product marketing, paying significant fines and penalties, and similar actions that could limit product sales, delay product shipment, and adversely affect profitability. Trinity Biotech’s success is dependent on certain key management personnel. • Trinity Biotech’s success is dependent on certain key management personnel. Our key employees at December 31, 2007 were Ronan O’Caoimh, our Executive Chairman, Brendan Farrell, our CEO, Rory Nealon, our COO, Jim Walsh, Director and Kevin Tansley, our CFO and Secretary. Competition for qualified employees among biotechnology companies is intense, and the loss of such personnel or the inability to attract and retain the additional highly skilled employees required for the expansion of our activities, could adversely affect our business. In the USA, the UK, France, Germany and Sweden we have been able to attract and retain qualified personnel. In Ireland, we have experienced some difficulties in attracting and retaining staff due to competition from other employers in our industry and due to the strength of the Irish economy. Trinity Biotech is dependent on its suppliers for the primary raw materials required for its test kits. • The primary raw materials required for Trinity Biotech’s test kits consist of antibodies, antigens or other reagents, glass fibre and packaging materials which are acquired from third parties. Although Trinity Biotech does not expect to be dependent upon any one source for these raw materials, alternative sources of antibodies with the characteristics and quality desired by Trinity Biotech may not be available. Such unavailability could affect the quality of our products and our ability to meet orders for specific products. 5 Table of Contents Trinity Biotech may be subject to liability resulting from its products or services. • Trinity Biotech may be subject to claims for personal injuries or other damages resulting from its products or services. Trinity Biotech has global product liability insurance in place for its manufacturing subsidiaries up to a maximum of €6,500,000 (US$9,569,000) for any one accident, limited to a maximum of €6,500,000 (US$9,569,000) in any one year period of insurance. A deductible of US$25,000 is applicable to each insurance event that may arise. There can be no assurance that our product liability insurance is sufficient to protect us against liability that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Currency fluctuations may adversely affect our earnings and assets. • Trinity Biotech records its transactions in US Dollars, euro and Swedish Kroner and prepares its financial statements in US Dollars. A substantial portion of our expenses is denominated in euro. However, Trinity Biotech’s revenues are primarily denominated in US Dollars. As a result, the Group is affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, especially the exchange rate between the US dollar and the euro, which may adversely affect our earnings and assets. The percentage of 2007 consolidated revenue denominated in US Dollars was approximately 65%. Of the remaining 35% revenue, 27% relates to revenue denominated in Euro and 8% relates to sterling, yen and Swedish Kroner denominated revenues. Thus, a 10% decrease in the value of the euro would have approximately a 3% adverse impact on consolidated revenues. • As part of the process of mitigating foreign exchange risk, the principal exchange risk identified by Trinity Biotech is with respect to fluctuations in the euro. This is attributable to the level of euro denominated expenses exceeding the level of euro denominated revenues thus creating a euro deficit. Trinity Biotech continuously monitors its exposure to foreign currency movements and based on expectations on future exchange rate exposure implements a hedging policy which may include covering a portion of this exposure through the use of forward contracts. In the medium term, our objective is to increase the level of non-US Dollar denominated revenue, thus creating a natural hedge of the non-US Dollar expenditure. The conversion of our outstanding employee share options and warrants would dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. • The warrants issued in 2004 and the total share options exercisable at December 2007, as described in Item 18, note 20 to the consolidated financial statements, are convertible into American Depository Shares (ADSs), 1 ADS representing 4 Class “A” Ordinary Shares. The exercise of the share options exercisable and of the warrants will likely occur only when the conversion price is below the trading price of our ADSs and will dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. For instance, should the options and warrant holders of the 6,417,223 ‘A’ Ordinary shares (1,604,306 ADSs) exercisable at December 31, 2007 be exercised, Trinity Biotech would have to issue 6,417,223 additional ‘A’ ordinary shares (1,604,306 ADSs). On the basis of 74,756,765 ‘A’ ordinary shares outstanding at December 31, 2007, this would effectively dilute the ownership interest of the existing shareholders by approximately 8%. It could be difficult for US holders of ADSs to enforce any securities laws claims against Trinity Biotech, its officers or directors in Irish Courts. • At present, no treaty exists between the United States and Ireland for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgements. The laws of Ireland do however, as a general rule, provide that the judgements of the courts of the United States have in Ireland the same validity as if rendered by Irish Courts. Certain important requirements must be satisfied before the Irish Courts will recognise the United States judgement. The originating court must have been a court of competent jurisdiction, the judgement may not be recognised if it is based on public policy, was obtained by fraud or its recognition would be contrary to Irish public policy. Any judgement obtained in contravention of the rules of natural justice will not be enforced in Ireland. 6 Table of Contents 