ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements about our business and results of operations that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed below. In addition to the risk factors discussed below, we are also subject to additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business could be harmed substantially. Our success will depend on our ability to develop new products and to adapt to rapid technological change. The types of products sold by us are subject to rapid and continual technological change. Products available from us, as well as from our competitors, have increasingly offered a wider range of features and capabilities. We believe that in order to compete effectively in selected vertical markets, we must provide compatible systems incorporating new technologies at competitive prices. To the extent we determine that new software and hardware technologies are required to remain competitive or our customers demand more advanced offerings, the development, acquisition and implementation of these technologies are likely to require significant capital investments by us. To the extent that such expenses precede or are not subsequently followed by increased revenues, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to continue funding research and development at levels sufficient to enhance our current product offerings or be able to develop and introduce on a timely basis new products that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards and address the evolving needs of clients. There can also be no assurance that we will not experience difficulties that will result in delaying or preventing the successful development, introduction and marketing of new products in our existing markets or that our new products and product enhancements will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve any significant degree of market acceptance. Likewise, there can be no assurance as to the acceptance of our products in new markets, nor can there be any assurance as to the success of our penetration of these markets, or to the revenue or profit margins with respect to these products. Our inability, for any reason, to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or client requirements could materially adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flow. In addition, we strive to achieve compatibility between our products and retail systems that we believe are or will become popular and widely adopted. We invest substantial resources in development efforts aimed at achieving such compatibility. Any failure by us to anticipate or respond adequately to technology or market developments could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may have difficulty implementing our products, which could damage our reputation and our ability to generate new business. Implementation of our software products can be a lengthy process, and commitment of resources by our clients is subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little or no control. Delays in the implementations of any of our software products, whether by our business partners or us, may result in client dissatisfaction, disputes with customers, or damage to our reputation. Significant problems implementing our software can cause delays or prevent us from collecting fees for our software and can damage our ability to generate new business. 4 Table of Contents Errors or defects in our products could diminish demand for our products, injure our reputation and reduce our operating results. Our products are complex and may contain errors that could be detected at any point in the life of the product. Errors may be found in new products or releases after shipment. Such errors could result in diminished demand for our products, delays in market acceptance and sales, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation or increased service and warranty costs. If any of these were to occur, our operating results could be adversely affected. We are highly dependent on a limited number of clients, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We sell systems and services to a limited number of large clients. We can provide no assurance that the loss of one or more of these clients will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We have traditionally depended on our installed client base for future revenues from services and licenses of other products. If existing clients fail to renew their maintenance agreements, our revenues could decrease. The maintenance agreements are generally renewable annually at the option of the client and there are no mandatory payment obligations or obligations to license additional software. Therefore, current clients may not necessarily generate significant maintenance revenues in future periods. In addition, clients may not purchase additional products or services. Any downturn in software license revenues could result in lower services revenues in future quarters. Our failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. The growth in the size and complexity of our business and the expansion of our product lines and client base may place a significant strain on our management and operations. An increase in the demand for our products could strain our resources or result in delivery problems, delayed software releases, slow response time, or insufficient resources for assisting clients with implementation of our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We anticipate that continued growth, if any, will require us to recruit, hire and assimilate a substantial number of new employees, including consulting, product development, sales and marketing, and administrative personnel. Our ability to compete effectively and to manage future growth, if any, will also depend on our ability to continue to implement and improve operational, financial and management information systems on a timely basis and to expand, train, motivate and manage our work force, particularly our direct sales force and consulting services organization. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to manage any future growth, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. The loss of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. Our future success depends in part on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, our failure to recruit and retain qualified accounting and finance personnel may result in excessive third party accounting and auditing costs and expenses in connection with compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, specifically in connection with Section 404 (internal control over financial reporting). Our inability to attract, hire or retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We are heavily dependent upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate skilled technical and managerial personnel, especially highly skilled engineers involved in ongoing product development and consulting personnel who assist in the development and implementation of our total business solutions. The market for such individuals is intensely competitive. Due to the critical role of our product development and consulting staffs, the inability to recruit successfully or the loss of a significant part of our product development or consulting staffs could have a material adverse effect on us. The software industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting of skilled personnel. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to retain our current personnel, or that we will be able to attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified technical and managerial personnel in the future. The inability to attract, hire or retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. 5 Table of Contents If we become subject to adverse claims alleging infringement of third-party proprietary rights, we may incur unanticipated costs and our competitive position may suffer. There has been a substantial amount of litigation in our industry regarding intellectual property rights. It is possible that in the future third parties may claim that our current or potential future solutions infringe on their intellectual property. We anticipate that product developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows. Although we are not aware of any infringement by our technology on the proprietary rights of others and are not currently subject to any legal proceedings involving claimed infringements, we can provide no assurance that we will not be subject to such third-party claims, litigation or indemnity demands or that these claims will not be successful. If a claim or indemnity demand were to be brought against us, it could result in costly litigation or product shipment delays, or force us to stop selling or providing services or enter into costly royalty or license agreements. We operate in a highly competitive market and can give no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. The market for retail information systems is intensely competitive. We believe the principal competitive factors are product quality, reliability, performance and price, vendor and product reputation, financial stability, features and functions, ease of use, quality of support, and degree of integration effort required with other systems. A number of companies offer competitive products addressing certain of our target markets. In addition, we believe that new market entrants may attempt to develop fully integrated systems targeting the retail industry. In the market for consulting services, we compete with various systems integrators. Many of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, we compete with a variety of hardware and software vendors. Some of our competitors may have advantages over us due to their significant worldwide presence, longer operating and product development history, and substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources. If competitors offer more favorable payment terms and/or more favorable contractual implementation terms or guarantees, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. Any such changes would likely reduce our margins. An increase in customer bankruptcies, due to weak economic conditions, could harm our business. During weak economic times, there is an increased risk that certain of our customers will file bankruptcy. If a customer files bankruptcy, we may be required to forego collection of pre-petition amounts owed and to repay amounts remitted to us during the 90-day preference period preceding the filing. Accounts receivable balances related to pre-petition amounts may in certain of these instances be large due to extended payment terms for software license fees, and significant billings for consulting and implementation services on large projects. The bankruptcy laws, as well as specific circumstances of each bankruptcy, may limit our ability to collect pre-petition amounts. We also face risk from international customers that file for bankruptcy protection in foreign jurisdictions, in that the application of foreign bankruptcy laws may be more difficult to predict. Although we believe that we have sufficient reserves to cover anticipated customer bankruptcies, we can provide no assurance that such reserves will be adequate, and if they are not adequate, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our products and services could be vulnerable to unauthorized access and hacking. Credit card issuers have promulgated credit card security guidelines as part of their ongoing effort to battle identity theft and credit card fraud. We continue to work with credit card issuers to assure that our products and services comply with the credit card associations’ security regulations and best practices applicable to our products and services. There can be no assurances, however, that our products and services are invulnerable to unauthorized access or hacking. Additionally, there can be no guarantee that our customers will implement all of the credit card security features that we introduce or all of the protections and procedures required by the credit card issuers, or that our customers will establish and maintain appropriate levels of firewall protection and other security measures. When there is unauthorized access to credit card data that results in financial loss, there is a potential that parties could seek damages from us. Additionally, changes in the security guidelines could require significant and unanticipated development efforts. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 