Risk Factors RISKS RELATING TO CHILE We are substantially dependent on economic conditions in Chile, which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We are predominantly engaged in business in Chile and 68.0% of our sales revenues in 2013 were generated from our Chilean operations, 23.3% came from operations in Argentina, 0.8% in Uruguay and 7.9% from exports out of Chile. Thus, our results of operations and financial condition are dependent to a large extent on the overall level of economic activity in Chile. The Chilean economy has experienced an average annual growth rate of 5.3% between 2009 and 2013, and 4.1% in 2013. In the past, slower economic growth in Chile has slowed down the rate of consumption of our products and adversely affected our profitability. Chile’s economic performance was affected in 2009 by the disruption in the global financial markets and in 2010 by an earthquake, and therefore the growth rate of the 2009-2013 period is not necessarily indicative of future performance. Furthermore, Chile, as an emerging market economy, is more exposed to unfavorable conditions in the international markets which can possibly have a negative impact on the demand for our products as well as products of third parties with whom we conduct business. On August 5, 2011, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group, Inc., or Standard & Poor’s, lowered its long term sovereign credit rating on the United States from AAA to AA+. The relative liquidity and volatility of Chilean securities markets may increase the price volatility of our ADSs and adversely impact a holder’s ability to sell any shares of our common stock withdrawn from our ADR facility. The Chilean securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. For example, the Santiago Stock Exchange, which is Chile’s principal stock exchange, had a market capitalization of approximately US$266.0 billion as of December 31, 2013, while The New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) had a market capitalization of approximately US$17.95 trillion and the NASDAQ National Market (“NASDAQ”) had a market capitalization of approximately US$6.09 trillion as of the same date. In addition, the Chilean securities markets can be materially affected by developments in other emerging markets, particularly other countries in Latin America. The lower liquidity and greater volatility of the Chilean markets relative to markets in the United States could increase the price volatility of the ADSs and may impair a holder’s ability to sell in the Chilean market shares of our common stock withdrawn from the ADR facility in the amount and at the price and time the holder wishes to do so. See “Item 9: The Offer and Listing.” Chilean economic policies, currency fluctuations, exchange controls and currency devaluations may adversely affect the price of our ADSs. The Chilean government’s economic policies and any future changes in the value of the Chilean peso relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect the dollar value and the return on any investment in our ADSs. The Chilean peso has been subject to large nominal devaluations and appreciations in the past and may be subject to significant fluctuations in the future. For example, in the period from December 31, 2012 to December 31, 2013, the daily average value of the Chilean peso relative to the U.S. dollar increased by 1.7% in nominal terms, whereas the year end value decreased by 9.6% based on the observed exchange rate for U.S. dollars on those dates. See “Item 3: Key Information–Selected Financial Data–Exchange Rates.” Chilean trading in the shares of our common stock underlying our ADSs is conducted in Chilean pesos. Cash distributions to be received by the depositary for the shares of our common stock underlying our ADSs will be denominated in Chilean pesos. The depositary will translate any Chilean pesos received by it to U.S. dollars at the then-prevailing exchange rate with the purpose of making dividend and other distribution payments on the ADSs. If the value of the Chilean peso declines relative to the U.S. dollar, the value of our ADSs and any distributions to holders of our ADSs received from the depositary may be adversely affected. See “Item 8: Financial Information – Dividend Policy and Dividends.” 6 We are subject to different corporate disclosure requirements and accounting standards than U.S. companies. Although the securities laws of Chile which govern open stock corporations and publicly listed companies such as us have as a principal objective promoting disclosure of all material corporate information to the public, Chilean disclosure requirements differ from those in the United States in certain important respects. In addition, although Chilean law imposes restrictions on insider trading and price manipulation, the Chilean securities market is not as highly regulated and supervised as the U.S. securities market. We have been subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act since our initial public offering of ADSs in September 1992. RISKS RELATING TO ARGENTINA We have significant operations in Argentina, and economic conditions there have adversely affected our results of operations in the past and may do so in the future. In addition to our operations in Chile, we maintain substantial assets in Argentina and derive significant revenue from our operations in Argentina. In 2013, we derived CLP279,343 million, or 23.3%, of our revenues from our Argentine operations, and, as of December 31, 2013, CLP195,931 million, or 11.3%, of our assets were located in Argentina. As local demand for alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages is usually correlated with economic conditions prevailing in that market, which in turn is dependent on the macroeconomic condition of the country, the financial condition and results of our operations in Argentina are, to a considerable extent, dependent upon political and economic conditions prevailing in Argentina. From 1999 through 2002, Argentina suffered a prolonged recession, which culminated in an economic crisis. Currently we have been observing a slowdown and accordingly cannot assure you that economic conditions in Argentina will improve or that our business will not be materially affected if Argentine economic conditions were to deteriorate. See “Item 5: Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Trend Information.” The Argentine peso is subject to volatility which could adversely affect our results. A devaluation of the Argentine peso may adversely affect our operating results. In the first quarter of 2014 Argentina experienced a devaluation of the Argentine peso of 22.9% while devaluation peaked in January by 23.1%. Whereas the economic situation in Argentina has stabilized and the Argentine government has been taking actions to protect foreign currency reserves, we cannot assure you that the Argentine economy will recover or that it will not face a recession, or predict what effect such a recession would have on our operations in Argentina. In 2009, the Company first reported its financial statements under IFRS, using the Argentine peso as the functional currency for our Argentine subsidiaries. Those results are calculated in said currency and then translated into Chilean pesos for consolidation purposes. Argentina’s legal regime and economy are susceptible to changes that could adversely affect our Argentine operations. The measures taken by the Argentine government to address the country’s economic situation severely affected the Argentine financial system’s stability and have had a materially negative impact on its reputation and lately, on the Company’s business. Recently, Argentina has been increasing restrictions on foreign exchange transactions. If Argentina were to experience a new fiscal and economic crisis, the Argentine government could implement economic and political measures, which could adversely impact our business. The unpredictability, timing and scope of possible measures adopted by the Argentine government, including expropriations, higher taxes and exchange control measures, could adversely affect our operations in Argentina and our future results of operations. 7 Since January 2006, the Argentine government has adopted different methods to directly and indirectly regulate the prices of various consumer goods, including bottled beer, in an effort to slow inflation. In 2013 formal measures were implemented to freeze prices in Argentina, and the government may continue to do so in the future. Additionally, measures taken by the Argentine government to control the country’s trade balance and to limit the access to foreign currencies have negatively impacted the free import of goods and royalty payments by the Company, and also the repatriation of profits. For example, due to an unforeseeable and abrupt new application of an import regime enforced in 2012 and to the lack of approval by the Secretariat of Interior Commerce of certain imports of Corona and Negra Modelo products, in 2013 the Company was not allowed to reach certain minimum contractual thresholds for the purchase of such products. Formal and de facto measures that are purely based on economic governmental policies may continue affecting our operations in Argentina, as we need to regularly import raw materials and finished products into Argentina. We cannot assure you that these and other unpredictable measures adopted by the Argentine government will not have an adverse effect on our operations in Argentina. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS Potential changes to Chilean tax rules may result in an increase in the prices of our products and a corresponding decline in sales volumes. Michelle Bachelet, the current President of Chile, who started her four-year term on March 11, 2014 has submitted a proposal to the Chilean parliament for their approval to increase the existing “ad valorem” tax on beer, wine and liquor products, which would significantly increase the price of our alcoholic products sold in Chile. If enacted, the proposal would charge an 18% excise tax on alcoholic beverages plus an additional 0.5% for each 1% of alcohol content. For example, the ad valorem excise tax would increase from 15% to 20.5% on regular beer with 5% alcohol content, from 15% to 24% on the typical wine with 12% alcohol content, and from 27% to 35.5% on pisco with 35% alcohol content. Furthermore, the proposal includes an increase in the taxation on non-alcoholic sugar containing beverages, from 13% to 18%. In addition, Ms. Bachelet has also submitted a proposal for approval by the parliament to increase the statutory corporate tax rate from 20% to 25%, being staggered through 2017, as well as make other changes to income tax rates and other existing tax rules. These proposals are expected to be debated in the Chilean Congress in the coming months, and will require a simple majority for approval. Based on our experience having looked at the four prior alcohol tax proposals during the last 14 years, which had failed to materialize, we expect that the congressional debate process will take about 3-7 months. Implementation of these or similar reforms in Chile, might adversely affect our businesses and accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current levels of sales or cash flows. Our products are taxed with different duties, particularly with respect to excise taxes on the consumption of alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages. The Argentine ad valorem excise tax is 8.7% for beer, and the Chilean ad valorem excise tax is 15% for beer and wine, 27% for spirits, and 13% for non-alcoholic sugar containing beverages. An increase in the rate of these or any other tax could negatively affect our sales and profitability. Fluctuations in the cost of our raw materials may adversely impact our profitability if we are unable to pass those costs along to our customers. We purchase malt, rice and hops for beer, sugar for soft drinks, grapes for wine and packaging material from local producers or in the international market. The prices of those materials are subject to volatility caused by market conditions, and have experienced significant fluctuations over time and are determined by the global supply and demand for commodities as well as other factors, such as fluctuations in exchange rates, over which we have no control. 8 Although we historically have been able to implement price increases in response to increases in raw material costs and thus have not sought to hedge our exposure to increases in raw material prices, we cannot assure you that our ability to recover increases in the cost of raw materials will continue in the future. In particular, where raw material price fluctuations do not keep pace with market conditions in the markets in which we operate, we may have limited capacity to raise prices to offset increases in costs. If we are unable to increase prices in response to increases in raw material costs, any future increases in raw material costs may reduce our margins and profitability if we are not able to offset such cost increases through efficiency improvements or other measures. We are controlled by one majority shareholder, whose interests may differ from those of holders of our ADSs, and this shareholder may take actions which adversely affect the value of a holder’s ADSs or common stock. As of March 31, 2014, Inversiones y Rentas S.A. (“IRSA”) a Chilean closed corporation, directly and indirectly owned 60.0% of our shares of common stock. Accordingly, IRSA has the power to control the election of most members of our board of directors and its interests may differ from those of the holders of our ADSs. IRSA also has significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and going-private transactions. In addition, actions by IRSA with respect to the disposal of the shares of common stock that it owns, or the perception that such actions may occur, may adversely affect the trading prices of our ADSs or common stock. Competition in the Chilean beer market may erode our market share and lower our profitability. In 2013, our market share of the Chilean beer market by volume was approximately 77.5%. Our largest competitor in the Chilean beer market by volume is Cervecería Chile S.A. (“Cervecería Chile”), a subsidiary of Anheuser-Busch InBev (“AB Inbev”). We estimate that Cervecería Chile had a market share by volume in Chile of approximately 11.6% in 2013. In the past, Cervecería Chile had engaged in aggressive pricing, through maintaining a consistent price gap, and several promotional activities. If Cervecería Chile were to amplify its aggressive price discounting practices in the future, we cannot assure you, given the current environment that any such discounting or other competitive activities will not have a material adverse impact on our profitability or market share. In 2013, AB Inbev finalized the acquisition of Grupo Modelo, owner of the Corona brand, which is currently distributed in Chile by Distribuidora Errázuriz S.A. (“DESA”). In the future this brand could be transferred to Cervecería Chile, thus potentially growing in distribution, which implies a potential risk to our market share and profitability. Another source of risk is the strengthening of Cervecería Chile´s brand portfolio due to the transfer of the Budweiser brand, currently produced in Argentina and distributed in Chile by CCU. Budweiser may be transferred to Cervecería Chile by the end of 2015 due to the expiration the distribution agreement. Additionally, if business conditions in the beer market continue to be relatively favorable in Chile, more enterprises may attempt to enter the Chilean beer market, either by producing beer locally or through imports. While we expect per capita beer consumption in Chile to continue to increase, mitigating the effect of competition, the entry into the market of additional competitors could further erode our market share or lead to price discounting. Our beer brands in Chile may face increased competition from other alcoholic beverages such as wine and spirits, as well as from non-alcoholic beverages such as soft drinks. Beer consumption in Chile may be influenced by changes in domestic wine, spirits and/or other non-alcoholic beverages’ relative prices. Increases in domestic wine prices have tended to lead to increases in beer consumption, while reductions in wine prices have tended to reduce or slow the growth of beer consumption. As a result of our lower market share in the Chilean wine, spirits and soft drinks markets as compared to our market share in the Chilean beer market, we expect that our profitability could be adversely affected if beverage consumers were to shift their consumption from beer to either wine, spirits or soft drinks. 9 Quilmes dominates the beer market in Argentina and we may not be able to maintain our current market share. In Argentina, we face competition from Quilmes Industrial S.A. (“Quilmes”) and from Cervecería Argentina S.A. Isenbeck (“CASA Isenbeck”), a former subsidiary of Warsteiner Brauerei Hans Cramer GmbH & Co. (“Warsteiner”), which was acquired by SABMiller plc on November 24, 2010. We estimate that in 2013 Quilmes had a market share of 73% and CASA Isenbeck had a market share of 4%. We estimate that our market share of the Argentine beer market was 23% in 2013. As a result of its dominant position in Argentina, Quilmes’ large size enables it to benefit from economies of scale in the production and distribution of beer throughout Argentina. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to grow or maintain our current market share of the Argentine beer market. Consolidation in the beer industry may impact our market share. In 2005, SABMiller plc merged with Grupo Empresarial Bavaria, a Colombian brewer with operations in Colombia, Peru, Ecuador and Panama, forming the then second-largest brewer in the world. In 2010 SABMiller Plc acquired CASA Isenbeck, the third-largest brewer in Argentina. In March 2004, Compania de Bebidas das Américas (“AmBev”) and Interbrew announced an agreement to merge, creating the world’s largest brewer under the name InBev. Additionally, in January 2007, AmBev assumed control of Quilmes. Inbev and Anheuser-Busch merged in November 2008, creating AB Inbev, the world’s global beer leader. In Chile, Quilmes sells its beer through Cervecería Chile, a subsidiary of ABInbev, which had a market share of approximately 11.6% in 2013, and in Argentina it had a market share of approximately 73% in 2013. In 2013, AB Inbev finalized the acquisition of Grupo Modelo. As a consequence of the above referenced merger, the brand Budweiser, whose production and distribution license contract was granted to Compañía Cervecerías Unidas Argentina S.A. (“CCU Argentina”) until 2025, belongs to a competitor. Cervecera CCU Chile Ltda. (“CCU Chile”) has a distribution contract until 2015 to distribute Budweiser in Chile. We cannot assure you that the contracts will be renewed. Consolidation in the beer industry has resulted in larger and more competitive participants, which could change the current market conditions under which we operate. Restrictions in the gas supply from Argentina have increased our energy costs, and higher oil prices have increased our distribution expenses. Since 2005, the Argentine government has restricted gas exports to Chile due to domestic supply problems. This has increased the cost of operating our beer production plants in Chile and Argentina, as well as our soft drinks plants in Chile. Gas supplies are currently stable, reducing the risk of further cost increases. However, these restrictions have increased electrical power costs. Because our boilers can be operated with gas or with alternative fuels, such as diesel oil or butane gas, we do not anticipate the need for additional investments. The Chilean government is presently implementing a strategy to diversify the country’s energy supply. The construction in Quintero of the first plant to process imported LNG (liquefied natural gas), which started its operation in August 2009, brought relief to the energy issue. However, we cannot assure you that the supply of energy or the cost thereof will not experience further fluctuations as a result of these policies. Electric power costs in Chile have increased significantly in the last year mainly due to hydroelectric plants having lower water reservoir levels, which was exacerbated by the absence of new installed capacity at lower costs. Furthermore, the rise in oil prices have led to increases in our distribution costs. If these trends were to continue, the resulting increases in energy prices may reduce our margins if we are unable to improve efficiencies or increase our prices to offset them. 10 Changes in the labor market in the countries in which we operate may affect margins in our business. In 2013, Chile’s unemployment rate was relatively low at 5.9%, which had a direct impact on our salary expense given the resulting competition for workers. Additionally, the mining industry’s need for a large workforce has put additional pressure on salary expenses as our business is work-force intensive, particularly in the distribution area. Furthermore, certain propositions to increase the minimum wage in Chile are constantly discussed in the Chilean Congress, and the passage of any such propositions may result in further increases in our salary expenses, which may have an effect on our margins and profitability. In Argentina, given labor unions pressures related to country´s high level of inflation, we have also faced pressure with respect to our salary expenses. We depend upon the renewal of certain license agreements to maintain our current operations. Most of our license agreements include certain conditions that must be met during their term, as well as provisions for their renewal at their expiry date. We cannot assure you that such conditions will be fulfilled, and therefore that the agreements will remain in place until their expiration or that they will be renewed, or that any of these contracts will not undergo early termination. Termination of, or failure to renew our existing license agreements could have an adverse impact on our operations. Consolidation in the supermarket industry may affect our operations. The Chilean supermarket industry has gone through a consolidation process, increasing the importance and purchasing power of a few supermarket chains. As a result, we may not be able to negotiate favorable prices, which may adversely affect our sales and profitability. The importance of supermarkets to our business operations is disclosed in the discussion of each of our operating segments. Additionally, and despite having insurance coverage, this supermarket chain consolidation has the effect of increasing our exposure to counterparty credit risk such that we have more exposure in the event one of these large customers fails to honor its payment obligations to us for any reason. Dependence on few suppliers for some important raw materials. In the case of cans, both in Chile and Argentina we purchase from a single supplier, Rexam, which has production plants in each country. However, cans can also be imported from other Rexam plants or from alternative suppliers in the region. In the case of glass bottles, in Chile, we purchase most of our bottles from a single local supplier, Cristalerías Chile, although there are other glass suppliers in Chile from whom we can purchase and we also import from other suppliers. We have long term contracts for malt in Chile and in Argentina. While we have alternatives in procuring our supplies, if we experience disruptions in our supply chain we may not be able to obtain replacement supplies at favorable pricing or advantageous terms, which may adversely affect our results. In the case of one way polyethylene terephthalate resins (“PET”), we purchase from several suppliers located in China, Mexico and the U.S. and in the past we have also bought from Argentina. For hotfill PET, our sole provider is Indorama, which operates in Mexico. Water supply is essential to the development of our businesses. Water is an essential component for beer, soft drinks, mineral and purified water. While we have adopted policies for the responsible and sustainable use of water, a failure in our water supply could negatively affect our sales and profitability. The supply, production and logistics chain is key to the timely supply of our products to consumer centers. Our supply, production and logistics chain is crucial for the delivery of our products to consumer centers. An interruption or a significant failure in this chain may negatively affect our results, if the failure is not quickly resolved. An interruption in the chain could be caused by various factors, such as strikes, riots or other factors which are beyond our control. 11 If we are unable to protect our information systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, our operations could be disrupted. We are increasingly dependent on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. In particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for digital marketing activities and electronic communications among us and our clients, suppliers and also among our subsidiaries. Security breaches of this infrastructure can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. If we are unable to prevent such breaches, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. Possible restrictions on the sale and promotion of alcoholic beverages and other food products in Chile could adversely affect us. Senators and congressmen from different political parties have submitted to the Chilean congress proposed bills to restrict the consumption, sale and promotion of alcoholic beverages. The principal modifications proposed in these bills are the incorporation of warnings on product labels of the possible dangers of excessive alcohol consumption on human health, similar to those required in the United States, restrictions on television advertising and a prohibition of alcoholic beverages at sports, cultural or related events. On March 15, 2012 law 20,580 was enacted by the Chilean congress. This law amended the limit for blood alcohol content while driving reducing the limit from less than 0.5 gr/lt. to less than 0.3 gr/lt., which has already had an impact on the level of consumption of alcoholic beverages and consequently our business. If further proposed bills are passed, or other regulations restricting the sale of non-alcoholic beverages or sweet snacks are enacted, this could affect consumption of our products and, as a consequence, negatively impact our business. Our production activities depend on our ability to comply with environmental regulations, which may become more stringent in the future and negatively affect our profitability. The regulation of matters relating to the protection of the environment is not as well developed in Chile and Argentina as in the United States and certain other countries. Accordingly, we anticipate that additional laws and regulations will be enacted over time in these countries with respect to environmental matters. If public authorities issue new and stricter standards, or enforce or interpret existing laws and regulations in a more restrictive manner, we may be forced to make expenditures to comply with such new rules, which could result in higher overall production costs and negatively affect our profitability. Currency fluctuations, especially of the Chilean peso, may affect our profitability. Because we purchase some of our supplies at prices set in U.S. dollars, and export wine in U.S. dollars, euros and pounds, we are exposed to foreign exchange risks that may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Therefore, any future changes in the value of the Chilean peso against said currencies would affect the revenues of our wine export business, as well as the cost of several of our raw materials, especially in the beer and soft drink businesses where raw materials are purchased in U.S. dollars. The effect of the exchange rate variation on export revenues would have an inverse effect on the cost of raw materials expressed in Chilean peso terms. Catastrophic events in the markets in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Natural disasters, climate change, terrorism, pandemics, strikes or other catastrophic events could impair our ability to manufacture, distribute or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to manage such events effectively if they occur, could adversely affect our sales volume, cost of raw materials, earnings and financial results. For example, on February 27, 2010, an 8.8 magnitude earthquake struck central Chile, followed by a subsequent tsunami. The earthquake epicenter was located 200 miles southwest of Santiago and 70 miles north of Concepción, Chile’s second largest city. See “Item 5: Operating and Financial Review and Prospects–Overview–Impact of the February 27, 2010 Earthquake and Tsunami and Changes in Consolidation Scope.” 12 On April 1, 2014, an 8.2 magnitude earthquake struck the northern part of Chile, but did not have a significant effect on our operations. A future earthquake, tsunami or other natural disaster, however, could have a significant effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to maintain the image and quality of our products our financial results may suffer. The image and quality of our products is essential for our success and growth. Problems with product quality could tarnish the reputation of our products and may adversely affect our revenues. If we are unable to finance our operations we may be adversely affected. A global liquidity crisis or an increase in financial interest rates may eventually limit our ability to obtain the cash needed to fulfill our commitments. Sales could also be affected by a global disruption if consumption decreases sharply, placing stress on our cash position. RISKS RELATING TO OUR ADSs The price of our ADSs and the U.S. dollar value of any dividends will be affected by fluctuations in exchange conditions. Our ADSs trade in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between Chilean and Argentine currencies and the U.S. dollar are likely to affect the market price of our ADSs. For example, since our financial statements are reported in Chilean pesos, a decline in the value of the Chilean peso against the dollar would reduce our earnings as reported in U.S. dollars. Any dividend we may pay in the future would be denominated in Chilean pesos. A decline in the value of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar would reduce the U.S. dollar equivalent of any such dividend. Additionally, in the event of a dividend or other distribution, if exchange rates fluctuate during any period of time when the ADS depositary cannot convert a foreign currency into dollars, a holder of our ADSs may lose some of the value of the distribution. Also, since dividends in Chile are subject to withholding taxes, which we retain until the following year when the exact amount to be paid is determined, if part of the retained amount is refunded to the shareholders, the amount received by holders of our ADSs would be subject to exchange rate fluctuations between the two dates. A holder of ADSs may be subject to certain risks due to the fact that holders of our ADSs do not hold shares of our common stock directly. In order to vote at shareholders’ meetings, if a holder is not registered on the books of the ADS depositary, the holder of our ADSs is required to transfer their ADSs for a certain number of days before a shareholders’ meeting into a blocked account established for that purpose by the ADS depositary. Any ADSs transferred to this blocked account will not be available for transfer during that time. If a holder of our ADSs is registered on the books of the ADS depositary, it must give instructions to the ADS depositary not to transfer its ADSs during this period before the shareholders’ meeting. A holder of our ADSs must therefore receive voting materials from the ADS depositary sufficiently in advance in order to make these transfers or give these instructions. There can be no guarantee that a holder of our ADSs will receive voting materials in time to instruct the ADS depositary on how to vote. It is possible that a holder of our ADSs will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote at all. Additionally, a holder of our ADSs may not receive copies of all reports from us or the ADS depositary. A holder of our ADSs may have to arrange with the ADS depositary’s offices to inspect any reports issued. 13 In the past, Chile has imposed controls on foreign investment and repatriation of investments that affected investments in, and earnings from, our ADSs. Equity investments in Chile by persons who are not Chilean residents have historically been subject to various exchange control regulations that restrict the repatriation of the investments and earnings therefrom. In April 2001, the Central Bank eliminated most of the regulations that affected foreign investors, although foreign investors still have to provide the Central Bank with information related to equity investments and must conduct such operations within the formal exchange market. Additional Chilean restrictions applicable to holders of our ADSs, the disposition of the shares underlying them, the repatriation of the proceeds from such disposition or the payment of dividends may be imposed in the future, and we cannot advise you as to the duration or impact of such restrictions if imposed. If for any reason, including changes in Chilean law, the depositary for our ADSs were unable to convert Chilean pesos to U.S. dollars, investors would receive dividends and other distributions, if any, in Chilean pesos. The rights of a holder of our ADSs to force us to purchase its underlying shares of our common stock pursuant to Chilean corporate law upon the occurrence of certain events may be limited. In accordance with Chilean laws and regulations, any shareholder that votes against certain corporate actions or does not attend the meeting at which certain corporate actions are approved and communicates to the corporation its dissent in writing within the time period established by law may exercise a withdrawal right, tender its shares to the company and receive cash compensation for its shares, provided that the shareholder exercises its rights within the prescribed time periods. See “Item 10: Additional Information – Memorandum and Articles of Association – Rights, preferences and restrictions regarding shares.” In our case, the actions triggering a right of withdrawal include the approval of: · our transformation into a different type of legal entity; · our merger with and/or into another company; · the transfer of 50% or more of our corporate assets, whether or not liabilities are also transferred, to be determined according to the balance sheet of the previous fiscal year, or the proposal or amendment of any business plan that contemplates the transfer of assets exceeding said percentage; the disposition of 50% or more of the corporate assets of a subsidiary, which represents at least 20% of the assets of the corporation, as well as any disposition of shares which results in the parent company losing its status as controller; · the granting of real or personal guarantees to secure third-party obligations exceeding 50% of the corporate assets except when the third party is a subsidiary of the company (in which case approval of the board of directors will suffice); · the creation of preferences for a series of shares or the increase, extension or reduction in the already existing ones. In this case, only dissenting shareholders of the affected series shall have the right to withdraw; · curing certain formal defects in our charter which otherwise would render it null and void or any modification of our by-laws that grant this right; and · other cases provided for by statute or in our bylaws, if any. In addition, shareholders may withdraw if a person becomes the owner of two-thirds or more of the outstanding shares of the corporation as a consequence of a share acquisition and such person does not make a tender offer for the remaining shares within 30 days from the date of such acquisition. Minority shareholders are also granted the right to withdraw when the controller acquires more than 95% of the shares of an open stock corporation. Our bylaws do not provide for additional circumstances under which shareholders may withdraw. Because of the absence of legal precedent as to whether a shareholder that has voted both for and against a proposal, such as the depositary of our ADSs, may exercise withdrawal rights with respect to those shares voted against the proposal, there is doubt as to whether a holder of ADSs will be able to exercise withdrawal rights either directly or through the depositary for the shares of our common stock represented by its ADSs. Accordingly, for a holder of our ADSs to exercise its appraisal rights, it may be required to surrender its ADRs, withdraw the shares of our common stock represented by its ADSs, and vote the shares against the proposal. 14 Preemptive rights to purchase additional shares of our common stock may be unavailable to holders of our ADSs in certain circumstances and, as a result, their ownership interest in us may be diluted. The Ley sobre Sociedades Anónimas N° 18,046 and the Reglamento de Sociedades Anónimas, which we refer to in this document collectively as the “Chilean Corporations Act”, requires us, whenever we issue new shares for cash, to grant preemptive rights to all holders of shares of our common stock, including shares of our common stock represented by ADSs, giving those holders the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. We may not be able to offer shares to holders of our ADSs pursuant to preemptive rights granted to our shareholders in connection with any future issuance of shares unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective with respect to those rights and shares, or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We intend to evaluate at the time of any future offerings of shares of our common stock the costs and potential liabilities associated with any registration statement as well as the indirect benefits to us of enabling U.S. owners of our ADSs to exercise preemptive rights and any other factors that we consider appropriate at the time, before making a decision as to whether to file such a registration statement. We cannot assure you that any such registration statement would be filed. To the extent that a holder of our ADSs is unable to exercise their preemptive rights because a registration statement has not been filed, the depositary will attempt to sell the holder’s preemptive rights and distribute the net proceeds of the sale, net of the depositary’s fees and expenses, to the holder, provided that a secondary market for those rights exists and a premium can be recognized over the cost of the sale. A secondary market for the sale of preemptive rights can be expected to develop if the subscription price of the shares of our common stock upon exercise of the rights is below the prevailing market price of the shares of our common stock. Nonetheless, we cannot assure you that a secondary market in preemptive rights will develop in connection with any future issuance of shares of our common stock or that if a market develops, a premium can be recognized on their sale. Amounts received in exchange for the sale or assignment of preemptive rights relating to shares of our common stock will be taxable in Chile and the United States. See “Item 10: Additional Information – Taxation – Chilean Tax Considerations – Capital Gains” and “– United States Federal IncomeTax Considerations – Taxation of Capital Gains.” If the rights cannot be sold, they will expire and a holder of our ADSs will not realize any value from the grant of the preemptive rights. In either case, the equity interest of a holder of our ADSs in us will be diluted proportionately. 