Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to our Industry Because we are a property and casualty insurer, our business may suffer as a result of unforeseen catastrophic losses. Property and casualty insurers are subject to claims arising from catastrophes. Catastrophic losses have had a significant impact on our historical results. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, tsunamis, tornados, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, explosions, flooding, severe winter weather and fires and may include man-made events, such as terrorist attacks and systemic risks. The incidence, frequency and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. Some scientists believe that in recent years, changing climate conditions have added to the unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Insurance companies are not permitted to reserve for a catastrophe until it has occurred. Catastrophes can cause losses in a variety of our property and casualty lines, and most of our past catastrophe-related claims have resulted from hurricanes and earthquakes; however, we experienced a significant loss as a result of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack. Most of our exposure to catastrophes comes from our International segment, particularly related to our property and property treaty businesses. Although we typically purchase reinsurance protection for risks we believe bear a significant level of catastrophe exposure, the nature or magnitude of losses attributed to a catastrophic event or events may result in losses that exceed our reinsurance protection. It is therefore possible that a catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. The insurance and reinsurance business is historically cyclical, and we expect to experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates, which could cause our results to fluctuate. The insurance and reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity, as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted an increase in pricing and, thus, more favorable premium levels. An increase in premium levels is often, over time, offset by an increasing supply of insurance and reinsurance capacity, either by capital provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing insurers or reinsurers, which may cause prices to decrease. Any of these factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates, less favorable policy terms and fewer opportunities to underwrite insurance risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. In addition to these considerations, changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds and insurers may affect the cycles of the insurance and reinsurance business significantly. These factors may also cause the price of our common stock to be volatile. 18 Our loss reserves are based on an estimate of our future liability, which may prove to be inadequate. We maintain loss reserves to cover our estimated liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, including legal and other fees, for reported and unreported claims incurred at the end of each accounting period. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, reserves represent an estimate of what we expect the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost. These estimates, which generally involve actuarial projections, are based on our assessment of facts and circumstances then known, as well as estimates of future trends in severity of claims, frequency of claims, judicial theories of liability and other factors. These variables are affected by both internal and external events that could increase our exposure to losses, including changes in claims handling procedures, inflation, climate change, judicial trends and legislative changes. Past events, such as the subprime credit issues, volatility in the financial markets, the economic downturn and decline in the equity markets, may result in an increase in the number of claims and the severity of the claims reported, particularly in lines of business such as directors’ and officers’ liability, errors and omissions liability and trade credit insurance. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable in advance. Additionally, there may be a significant reporting delay between the occurrence of the insured event and the time it is reported to us. The inherent uncertainties of estimating reserves are greater for certain types of liabilities, particularly those in which the various considerations affecting the type of claim are subject to change and in which long periods of time may elapse before a definitive determination of liability is made. Reserve estimates are continually refined in a regular and ongoing process as experience develops and further claims are reported and settled. Adjustments to our loss and loss adjustment expenses are reflected in our results of operations in the periods in which such estimates are changed. Because setting reserves is inherently uncertain, there can be no assurance that current reserves will prove adequate in light of subsequent events, particularly in volatile economic times and the often related changes in behavior of claimants and policyholders, including an increase in fraudulent reporting of exposures and/or losses, reduced maintenance of insured properties or increased frequency of small claims. If actual claims prove to be greater than our reserves, our financial position, results of operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. We may be impacted by claims relating to credit market downturns. We write corporate directors’ and officers’ liability, errors and omissions liability and other insurance coverages for financial institutions and financial services companies. We also write trade credit business for policyholders who have credit and political risk. The volatility and downturn in the financial markets in the past several years has had an impact on this part of the industry. As a result, this part of the industry has been the subject of heightened scrutiny and, in some cases, investigations by regulators with respect to the industry’s actions. These events may give rise to increased claims litigation, including class action suits, which may involve our insureds. To the extent that the frequency or severity of claims relating to these events exceeds our current estimates used for establishing reserves, it could increase our exposure to losses from such claims and could have a material adverse effect on our financial postition and results of operations. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended liability for claims and coverage may emerge. These changing conditions may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance or reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued, and our financial position and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation and supervision. Our business depends on compliance with applicable laws and regulations and our ability to maintain valid licenses and approvals for our operations. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of policyholders rather than shareholders and other investors. In the United States, this regulation is generally administered by departments of insurance in each state in which we do business and includes a comprehensive framework of oversight of our operations and review of our financial position. U.S. Federal legislation may lead to additional federal regulation of the insurance industry in the coming years. Also, foreign governments regulate our international operations. Each foreign jurisdiction has its own unique regulatory framework that applies to our operations in that jurisdiction. 19 Regulatory authorities have broad discretion to grant, renew or revoke licenses and approvals. Regulatory authorities may deny or revoke licenses for various reasons, including the violation of regulations. In some instances, we follow practices based on our interpretations of regulations, or those we believe to be generally followed by the industry, which ultimately may be different from the requirements or interpretations of regulatory authorities. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals and do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us. That type of action could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Also, changes in the level of regulation of the insurance industry (whether federal, state or foreign), or changes in laws or regulations themselves or interpretations by regulatory authorities, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Virtually all states require insurers licensed to do business in that state to bear a portion of the loss suffered by some insureds as the result of impaired or insolvent insurance companies or to bear a portion of the cost of insurance for “high-risk” or uninsured individuals. Depending on state law, insurers can be assessed 1% to 2% of premium written for the relevant line of insurance in that state. In addition, states have from time to time passed legislation that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage catastrophe risk, such as legislation limiting insurers’ ability to increase rates and prohibiting insurers from withdrawing from catastrophe-exposed areas. The effect of these arrangements could materially adversely affect our results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Act), enacted in July 2010, expands the U.S. Federal government’s presence in insurance oversight. The Act’s requirements include streamlining the state-based regulation of reinsurance and non-admitted insurance. This legislation also establishes a new Federal Insurance Office with powers over most lines of insurance other than health insurance. The Federal Insurance Office is authorized to gather data and information to monitor aspects of the insurance industry, identify issues in the regulation of insurers about insurance matters, and preempt state insurance measures under certain circumstances. As this Act calls for numerous studies and contemplates further regulation, the future impact of the Act on our results of operations or financial position cannot be determined at this time. The European Union (EU) is phasing in a new regulatory regime for the regulation of financial services known as “Solvency II”, which is built on a risk-based approach to setting capital requirements for insurers and reinsurers. Solvency II is expected to be implemented in 2013. The impact on us from our implementation of Solvency II will depend on the costs associated with implementation by each EU country, any increased capital requirements applicable to us, and any costs associated with adjustments to our operations. In addition, the overall impact will depend on whether the U.S. regulatory regime is deemed equivalent to Solvency II, thereby reducing the costs of implementation. As such, we are currently not able to predict the impact of Solvency II on our financial position and results of operations. Recent federal health care reform legislation may lead to changes in the country’s health care delivery system. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the related amendments in the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively, the Legislation), enacted in 2010, may lead to changes in the country’s health care delivery system. As a result of the Legislation, there may be numerous changes in the health care industry, including an increasing percentage of the population that is covered for health care costs. Currently, we do not believe the Legislation will have a material adverse effect on our business. However, as the Legislation contemplates further regulation, we are unable to assess with certainty the full impact the Legislation may have on our business. We cannot predict the effect, if any, climate change may have on the risks we insure. Various scientists, environmentalists, international organizations and regulators believe that global climate change has added, and will continue to add, to the unpredictability, frequency and severity of natural disasters (including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornados, freezes, other storms and fires) in certain parts of the world. In response to this belief, a number of legal and regulatory measures as well as social initiatives have been introduced in an effort to reduce greenhouse gas and other carbon emissions, which may be chief contributors to global climate change. We cannot predict the impact that changing climate conditions, if any, will have on results of operations or financial condition. Moreover, we cannot predict how legal, regulatory and social responses to concerns about global climate change will impact our business. To the extent climate change does increase the unpredictability, frequency or severity of natural disasters, we may face increased claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 20 Our reliance on brokers subjects us to their credit risk. In accordance with industry practice, we generally pay amounts owed on claims under our insurance and reinsurance contracts to brokers, and these brokers, in turn, pay these amounts to the clients that have purchased insurance or reinsurance from us. Although the law is unsettled and depends upon the facts and circumstances of the particular case, in some jurisdictions, if a broker fails to make such a payment, we might remain liable to the insured or ceding insurer for the deficiency. Conversely, in certain jurisdictions, when the insured or ceding insurer pays premiums for these policies to brokers for payment over to us, these premiums might be considered to have been paid and the insured or ceding insurer will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we have actually received the premiums from the broker. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with brokers with whom we transact business. However, due to the unsettled and fact-specific nature of the law, we are unable to quantify our exposure to this risk. Consolidation in the insurance industry could adversely impact us. Insurance industry participants may seek to consolidate through mergers and acquisitions. Continued consolidation within the insurance industry will further enhance the already competitive underwriting environment as we would likely experience more robust competition from larger competitors. These consolidated entities may use their enhanced market power and broader capital base to take business from us or to drive down pricing, which could adversely affect the results of our operations. Risks Relating to our Business Our inability to accurately assess underwriting risk could reduce our net earnings. Our underwriting success is dependent on our ability to accurately assess the risks associated with the business on which the risk is retained. We rely on the experience of our underwriting staff in assessing these risks. If we fail to assess accurately the risks we retain, we may fail to establish appropriate premium rates and our reserves may be inadequate to cover our losses, which could reduce our net earnings. The underwriting process is further complicated by our exposure to unpredictable developments, including earthquakes, weather-related events and other natural catastrophes, as well as war and acts of terrorism and those that may result from volatility in the financial markets, the economic downturn and systemic risks. Retentions in various lines of business expose us to potential losses. We retain risk for our own account on business underwritten by our insurance companies. The determination to reduce the amount of reinsurance we purchase or not to purchase reinsurance for a particular risk or line of business is based on a variety of factors including market conditions, pricing, availability of reinsurance, the level of our capital and our loss history. Such determinations have the effect of increasing our financial exposure to losses associated with such risks or in such lines of business and, in the event of significant losses associated with such risks or lines of business, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to purchase adequate reinsurance protection for some of the risks we have underwritten, we will be exposed to any resulting unreinsured losses. We purchase reinsurance for a portion of the risks underwritten by our insurance companies, especially volatile and catastrophe-exposed risks. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase. In addition, the historical results of reinsurance programs and the availability of capital also affect the availability of reinsurance. Our reinsurance facilities are generally subject to annual renewal. We cannot assure that we can maintain our current reinsurance facilities or that we can obtain other reinsurance facilities in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. Further, we cannot determine what effect catastrophic losses will have on the reinsurance market in general and on our ability to obtain reinsurance in adequate amounts and, in particular, at favorable rates. If we are unable to renew or to obtain new reinsurance facilities on acceptable terms, either our net exposures would increase or, if we are unwilling to bear such an increase in exposure, we would have to reduce the level of our underwriting commitments, especially in catastrophe-exposed risks. Either of these potential developments could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If the companies that provide our reinsurance do not pay all of our claims, we could incur severe losses. We purchase reinsurance by transferring, or ceding, all or part of the risk we have assumed as a direct insurer to a reinsurance company in exchange for all or part of the premium we receive in connection with the risk. Through reinsurance, 21 we have the contractual right to collect the amount reinsured from our reinsurers. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred or ceded to the reinsurer, it does not relieve us, the reinsured, of our full liability to our policyholders. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. We cannot assure that our reinsurers will pay all of our reinsurance claims, or that they will pay our claims on a timely basis. Additionally, catastrophic losses from multiple direct insurers may accumulate within the more concentrated reinsurance market and result in claims that adversely impact the financial condition of such reinsurers and thus their ability to pay such claims. Further, additional adverse developments in the capital markets could affect our reinsurers’ ability to meet their obligations to us. If we become liable for risks we have ceded to reinsurers or if our reinsurers cease to meet their obligations to us, because they are in a weakened financial position as a result of incurred losses or otherwise, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. As a direct insurer, we may have significant exposure for terrorist acts. To the extent that reinsurers have excluded coverage for terrorist acts or have priced such coverage at rates that we believe are not practical, we, in our capacity as a direct insurer, do not have reinsurance protection and are exposed for potential losses as a result of any terrorist acts. To the extent an act of terrorism is certified by the Secretary of Treasury, we may be covered under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007, for up to 85% of our losses in 2012 up to the maximum amount set out in the Reauthorization Act. However, any such coverage would be subject to a mandatory deductible of approximately $135.5 million in 2012. In some jurisdictions outside of the United States, where we also have exposure to a loss from an act of terrorism, we have limited access to other government programs that may mitigate our exposure. If we become liable for risks that are not covered under the Reauthorization Act, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In addition, because interpretation of this law is untested, there may be uncertainty as to how it will be applied to specific circumstances. We may be unsuccessful in competing against larger or more well-established business rivals. We face competition from other specialty insurance companies, standard insurance companies and underwriting agencies, as well as from diversified financial services companies that are larger than we are and that have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Some of these competitors also have longer experience and more market recognition than we do in certain lines of business. In addition, it may be difficult or prohibitively expensive for us to implement IT systems and processes that are competitive with the systems and processes of these larger companies. Furthermore, due to volatility in the financial markets and the related negative economic impact, the U.S. government has intervened in the operations of some of our competitors, which could lead to increased competition on uneconomic terms in certain of our lines of business. In addition to competition in the operation of our business, we face competition from a variety of sources in attracting and retaining qualified employees. We cannot assure that we will maintain our current competitive position in the markets in which we operate, or that we will be able to expand our operations into new markets. If we fail to do so, our results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We invest a significant amount of our assets in securities that have experienced market fluctuations, which may reduce the value of our investment portfolio, reduce investment income or generate realized investment losses. At December 31, 2011, substantially all of our $6.0 billion investment portfolio was invested in fixed income securities. The fair value of these fixed income securities and the related investment income fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions, including the continuing volatility in the market and economy as a whole. For our fixed income securities, the fair value generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship with fluctuations in interest rates and credit spreads, while net investment income realized by us from future investments in fixed income securities will generally increase or decrease with interest rates. Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities may have different net investment income and/or cash flows from those anticipated at the time of investment. These securities have prepayment risk because the timing of cash flows that result from the repayment of principal might occur earlier than anticipated, due to declining interest rates, or extension risk when cash flows may be received later than anticipated because of rising interest rates. Although 99% of our portfolio is investment grade, all of our fixed income securities are subject to credit risk. For mortgage-backed securities, credit risk exists if mortgagors default on the underlying mortgages. During an economic downturn, our state, municipal and non-U.S. sovereign bond portfolios could be subject to a higher risk of default or impairments due to declining tax bases and revenue, notwithstanding the relatively low historical rates of default of these types of obligations. If any of the issuers of our fixed income securities suffer financial setbacks, the ratings on the fixed income securities could 22 fall (with a concurrent fall in fair value) and, in a worst case scenario, the issuer could default on its financial obligations. If the issuer defaults, we could have realized losses associated with the impairment of the securities. The impact of fluctuations in the market prices of securities affects our financial statements. Because the majority of our fixed income securities are classified as available for sale, changes in the fair value of our securities are reflected in our other comprehensive income. Similar treatment is not available for liabilities. Therefore, interest rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial position. The unrealized pretax net investment gains on our available for sale fixed income securities were $333.4 million, $134.6 million and $156.3 million at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Since 2008, the financial markets and the economy have been severely affected by various events. This has impacted interest rates and has caused large writedowns in other companies’ financial instruments either due to the market fluctuations or the impact of the events on the debtors’ financial condition. The continuing turmoil in the financial markets and the economy, particularly related to potential future ratings downgrade and/or impairment of debt securities of sovereign issuers, could adversely affect the valuation of our investments and cause us to have to record other-than-temporary impairment credit losses on our investments, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. If rating agencies downgrade our financial strength ratings, our business and competitive position in the industry may suffer. Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Our insurance companies are rated by Standard & Poor’s Corporation, Fitch Ratings, Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. and A.M. Best Company, Inc. The financial strength ratings reflect their opinions of an insurance company’s and insurance holding company’s financial strength, operating performance, strategic position and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and are not evaluations directed to investors. Our ratings are subject to periodic review by those entities, and the continuation of those ratings at current levels cannot be assured. If our ratings are reduced from their current levels, it could affect our ability to compete for high quality business and, thus, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may require additional capital or funds for liquidity in the future, which may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms. Our future capital and liquidity requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully, to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses, and to maintain our current line of credit. We may need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail our growth and reduce our assets. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all in periods of stress and volatility in the financial markets, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our shareholders could result and, in any case, such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common stock. If we cannot obtain adequate capital or funds for liquidity on favorable terms or at all, our business, results of operations and liquidity could be adversely affected. We may also be pre-empted from making acquisitions. Standard & Poor’s Corporation, Fitch Ratings, Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. and A.M. Best Company, Inc. rate our credit strength. If our credit ratings are reduced, it might significantly impede our ability to raise capital and borrow money, which could materially affect our business, results of operations and liquidity. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. We depend on our ability to attract and retain experienced underwriting talent and other skilled employees who are knowledgeable about our business. Certain of our senior underwriters and other skilled employees have employment agreements that are for definite terms, and there is no assurance we will retain these employees beyond the current terms of their agreements. If the quality of our underwriting team and other personnel decreases, we may be unable to maintain our current competitive position in the specialized markets in which we operate and be unable to expand our operations into new markets, which could materially adversely affect our business. 23 Our strategy of acquiring other companies for growth may not succeed. Our strategy for growth includes growing through acquisitions of insurance industry related companies. This strategy presents risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance, including: • the diversion of our management’s attention, • our ability to assimilate the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, • the contingent and latent risks associated with the past operations of, and other unanticipated problems arising in, the acquired companies, • the need to expand management, administration and operational systems, and • increased competition for suitable acquisition opportunities and qualified employees. We cannot predict whether we will be able to find suitable acquisition targets, nor can we predict whether we would be able to acquire these additional companies on terms favorable to us or if we will be able to successfully integrate the acquired operations into our business. We do not know if we will realize any anticipated benefits of completed acquisitions or if there will be substantial unanticipated costs associated with new acquisitions. In addition, future acquisitions by us may result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of additional debt, and/or the recognition of potential impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets. Each of these factors could materially adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. We are exposed to goodwill impairment risk as part of our business acquisition strategy. We have recorded goodwill in connection with the majority of our business acquisitions. We are required to perform goodwill impairment tests at least annually and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. As a result of our annual and other periodic evaluations, we may determine that a portion of the goodwill carrying value needs to be written down to fair value, which could materially adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. We are an insurance holding company and, therefore, may not be able to receive dividends in needed amounts from our subsidiaries. Historically, we have had sufficient cash flow from our non-insurance company subsidiaries to meet our corporate cash flow requirements for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, dividends to shareholders and corporate expenses. However, in the future we may rely on dividends from our insurance companies to meet these requirements. The payment of dividends by our insurance companies is subject to regulatory restrictions and will depend on the surplus and future earnings of these subsidiaries, as well as the regulatory restrictions. As a result, should our other sources of funds prove to be inadequate, we may not be able to receive dividends from our insurance companies at times and in amounts necessary to meet our obligations, which could materially adversely affect our financial position and liquidity. Because we operate internationally, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may affect our receivable and payable balances and our reserves. We underwrite insurance coverages that are denominated in a number of foreign currencies, and we establish and maintain our loss reserves with respect to these policies in their respective currencies. While we hold assets denominated in comparable foreign currencies to economically hedge the foreign currency risk related to these reserves and other liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, our net earnings could be adversely affected by exchange rate fluctuations if our assets do not match our liabilities. We do not use derivative contracts to hedge against foreign currency mismatches. Our principal area of exposure relates to fluctuations in exchange rates between the major European currencies (particularly the British pound sterling and the Euro) and the U.S. dollar. Consequently, a change in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the British pound sterling or the Euro could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 24 Our information technology systems may fail or suffer a loss of security, which could adversely affect our business. Our business is highly dependent upon the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our computer systems. We rely on these systems to perform actuarial and other modeling functions necessary for writing business, to process our premiums and policies, to process and make claims payments, and to prepare our management and external financial statements and information. The failure of these systems could interrupt our operations. In addition, in the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a blackout, a computer virus, a terrorist attack or war, our systems may be inaccessible for an extended period of time. These systems failures or disruptions could result in a material adverse effect on our business results. In addition, a security breach of our computer systems could damage our reputation or result in liability. We retain confidential information regarding our business dealings in our computer systems. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Despite the implementation of security measures, the infrastructure supporting our computer systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. In addition, we could be subject to liability if hackers were able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate confidential information. If we experience difficulties with outsourcing relationships, our ability to conduct our business might be negatively impacted. We outsource certain business and administrative functions to third parties and may do so increasingly in the future. If we fail to develop and implement our outsourcing strategies or our third party providers fail to perform as anticipated, we may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. By outsourcing certain business and administrative functions to third parties, we may be exposed to enhanced risk of data security breaches. Any breach of data security could damage our reputation and/or result in monetary damages, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We may not be able to delay or prevent an inadequate or coercive offer for change in control, and regulatory rules and required approvals might delay or deter a favorable change of control. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws do not have provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we may be more susceptible to an inadequate or coercive offer that could result in a change in control than a company whose charter documents have provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control. Many state insurance regulatory laws contain provisions that require advance approval by state agencies of any change of control of an insurance company that is domiciled or, in some cases, has substantial business in that state. “Control” is generally presumed to exist through the ownership of 10% or more of the voting securities of a domestic insurance company or of any company that controls a domestic insurance company. We own, directly or indirectly, all of the shares of stock of insurance companies domiciled in a number of states. Any purchaser of shares of common stock representing 10% or more of the voting power of our common stock will be presumed to have acquired control of our domestic insurance subsidiaries unless, following application by that purchaser, the relevant state insurance regulators determine otherwise. Any transactions that would constitute a change in control of any of our individual insurance subsidiaries would generally require prior approval by the insurance departments of the states in which the insurance subsidiary is domiciled. Also, one of our insurance subsidiaries is domiciled in the United Kingdom and another in Spain. Insurers in those countries are also subject to change of control restrictions under their individual regulatory frameworks. These requirements may deter or delay possible significant transactions in our common stock or the disposition of our insurance companies to third parties, including transactions that could be beneficial to our shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 25 