Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the following risk factors before investing in our common stock. These are not the only risks that we may face. Additional risks not currently known to the Company or that the Company presently deems immaterial may also impair its business operations. If any of the events referred to below occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We cannot be sure that we will achieve profitability in future periods. We have experienced unprofitable quarters and full fiscal years, and cannot be certain that we can be profitable in future periods. Unprofitable quarters and full fiscal years may be due to the accrual of dividends and other amounts that become payable in the future on our outstanding shares of Series A-1 Redeemable Convertible Preferred Stock (“Series A-1 Preferred Stock”), the loss of one or more large clients, results of litigation, or other factors. Although we believe we have achieved certain efficiencies and economies of scale in our operations, if growth in our revenues does not significantly outpace the increase in our operating and non-operating expenses, we may not be profitable in future periods. In addition, recent economic, regulatory and market conditions have adversely impacted the financial services industry, particularly banks and credit unions that are customers of the Company. Our clients are concentrated in a small number of industries, including the financial services industry, and changes within those industries could reduce demand for our products and services. A large portion of our revenues are derived from financial service providers, primarily banks, credit unions and credit card issuers. Recently, financial service providers have been adversely affected by illiquidity, capital and regulatory constraints, new and enhanced laws and regulations, greater regulatory scrutiny, credit tightening, increased losses in loan and investment portfolios, industry consolidation, and other trends in the financial markets in which they operate. Unfavorable conditions adversely impacting those types of businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Depository financial institutions have experienced, and may continue to experience, fluctuations in profitability which, in the current market environment, may be extreme. Additionally, the entrance of non-traditional competitors and the current environment of low interest rates have narrowed the profit margins of depository financial institutions, increasing challenges to improve their operating efficiencies. As a result, the business and profitability of some financial 15 Table of Contents institutions has slowed, and may continue to slow, their capital and operating expenditures, including spending on web-based products and solutions, which can negatively impact sales of our online payments, account presentation, marketing and support services to new and existing clients. Decreases in, or reallocation of, capital and operating expenditures by our current and potential clients, unfavorable economic conditions and new or persisting competitive pressures could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our biller clients are concentrated in the health care, utilities, consumer lending and insurance industries. Unfavorable economic, regulatory and other conditions adversely impacting one or more of these industries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure to retain existing end-users or changes in their continued use of our services will materially and adversely affect our operating results. We generally charge our client fees based on the number of their end-users who have enrolled with our clients for the services we provide on the basis of the number of transactions those end-users generate. Because our fee structure is designed to establish recurring revenues through monthly usage by end-users of our clients, our recurring revenues are dependent on the acceptance of our services by end-users and their continued use of account presentation, payments and other financial services we provide. There is no guarantee that the number of end-users using our services will continue to increase or that we will not suffer a loss in end-users who use our services. There also is no guarantee that our clients will not suffer a loss of customers who are actual or potential end-users of our services. Failure to retain the existing end-users and the change in spending patterns and budgetary resources of our clients and their end-users will materially and adversely affect our business operating results and financial condition. Any failure of our clients to effectively market our services could have a material adverse effect on our business. To market our services to our clients’ end-users, we require the consent, and often the assistance, of our clients. Because our clients offer our services under their name, we must depend on those clients to get their end-users to use our services. Although we offer extensive marketing programs to our clients, our clients may decide not to participate in our programs or our clients may not effectively market our services to their end-users. Any failure of our clients to allow us to effectively market our services to their end-users could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Demand for low-cost or free online financial services and competition may place significant pressure on our pricing structure and revenues and may have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Although we charge our client institutions for the services we provide, our clients offer many of the services they obtain from us, including account presentation and bill payments, to their end-users at low cost or for free. Clients and prospects may therefore reject our services in favor of those offered by other companies if those companies offer more competitive prices. Thus, market competition places significant pressure on our pricing structure and revenues and may have a material adverse effect on our business financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to expand or adapt our services to support our clients’ and their end-users’ needs, our business may be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to expand, enhance or adapt our services and related products to meet the demands of our clients and their end-users quickly or at a reasonable cost. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant user and transaction growth. This growth has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our personnel, management and other resources. We need to continue to make significant investments in our infrastructure with the objective of assuring that our systems are technologically current, secure, robust and scalable, as well as expand and adapt our infrastructure, services and related products to accommodate additional clients and their end-users, increased transaction volumes and changing end-user requirements. This will require substantial financial, operational and management resources. If we are unable to achieve this objective and expand and adapt our infrastructure and processes to support the variety and number of 16 Table of Contents transactions and end-users that ultimately use our services, our business may be materially adversely affected. Further, the cost and management resources necessary to achieve this objective could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we lose one or more material clients, our business financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Loss of any material client or clients could negatively impact our ability to increase our revenues and maintain or achieve profitability in the future. Additionally, the departure of a large client could impact our ability to attract and retain other clients. Currently, no one client or reseller partner accounts for more than 4% of our revenues. Consolidation of the financial services industry could negatively impact our business financial condition and results of operations. The continuing consolidation of the financial services industry could result in an increasingly smaller market for our bank-related services. Consolidation frequently results in a change in the systems of, and services offered by, the combined entity. If any of our financial service provider clients is acquired, this could result in the termination of our services and related products if the acquirer has its own in-house system or outsources to our competitors. This would also result in the loss of revenues from actual or potential retail end-users of the acquired financial services provider. Any such events involving our significant clients or on a large number of our clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to compete effectively in our markets would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to compete with current and potential competitors, many of whom have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger, more established end-user bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources. Further, some of our competitors provide, or have the ability to provide, the same range of services we offer and some offer a broader range of services. Some of our competitors, such as core banking processors, have broad distribution channels that bundle competing products directly to financial services providers. Also, competitors may compete directly with us by adopting a similar business model or through the acquisition of companies, such as resellers, who provide complementary products or services. A significant number of companies offer portions of the services we provide and compete directly with us. For example, some companies compete with our web-based account presentation capabilities. Some software providers also offer some of the services we provide on an outsourced basis. These companies may use bill payers who integrate with their account presentation services. Also, certain services, such as Intuit’s Quicken.com and Yahoo! Finance, may be available to retail end-users independent of financial services providers. Many of our competitors may be able to afford more extensive marketing campaigns and more aggressive pricing policies in order to attract financial services providers. Our failure to compete effectively in our markets would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our quarterly financial results are subject to fluctuations, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our stock. Our quarterly revenues, expenses and operating results may vary from quarter to quarter in the future based upon a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. Although our revenue model is based largely on recurring revenues, the actual amount of revenue in any period is derived from actual end-user counts and the volume of transactions conducted by those end-users in that period. The number of our total end-users and the number of total transactions they conduct are affected by many factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the number of new user registrations, end-user turnover, loss of clients, and general consumer trends. Our financial condition and results of operations for a particular period may be adversely affected if the revenues based on the number of end-users or transactions forecasted for that period are less than expected. Consequently, 17 Table of Contents our operating results may fall below market analysts’ expectations in some future quarters, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our stock. Goodwill recorded on our balance sheet may become impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As a result of acquisitions we have undertaken, we have recorded a significant amount of goodwill. We evaluate at least annually the potential impairment of goodwill that was recorded at each acquisition date. Testing for impairment of goodwill involves the identification of reporting units and the estimation of fair values. The estimation of fair values involves a high degree of judgment and subjectivity in the assumptions used. Circumstances could change which would give rise to an impairment of the value of that recorded goodwill. Examples of these circumstances could be continued deterioration of market conditions or a reduction in our share price, a change in discount rates or a change in our expectations of future results. Any impairment would be charged as an expense to the statement of operations which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our limited ability to protect our proprietary technology and other rights may adversely affect our ability to compete. We rely, and have relied, on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as third-party nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that these protections will be adequate to prevent our competitors from copying or reverse-engineering our products, or that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. We cannot assure that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. Although we hold registered United States patents and trademarks covering certain aspects of our technology and our business, we cannot be sure of the level of protection that these patents and trademarks will provide. Moreover, patent litigation has notably increased generally, as well as in the online payments industry in particular, in recent years. We have, and may continue to need to, resort to litigation to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or know-how, or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. Enforcing or defending our proprietary technology or intellectual property rights is expensive, can cause diversion of our resources, and may not prove successful. Our failure to properly develop, market or sell new products could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The expansion of our business is dependent, in part, on our developing, marketing and selling new financial products to our clients and their end-users. If any new products we develop prove defective or if we fail to properly market these products to our clients or sell these products to their customers, or the products otherwise fail to achieve acceptance in our market, the growth we envision for our company may not be achieved and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we could be required to redesign our products, pay royalties, and/or enter into license agreements with third parties. There can be no assurance that one or more third parties will not assert that our technology violates its intellectual property rights. As the number of products offered by our competitors increases and the functionality of these products further overlap, our provision of web-based financial services technology may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. Moreover, patent litigation has increased generally, as well as in the online payments industry in particular, in recent years. Any such claims, whether with or without merit, could: • be expensive and time consuming to defend; • cause us to cease making, licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; 18 Table of Contents • require us to redesign our products, if feasible; • divert management’s attention and resources; and • require us to pay royalties or enter into licensing agreements in order to obtain the rights to use necessary technologies in our business. In addition to the direct impact of any such claims on our business, results of operations and financial condition, potential negative reactions to any such claims could adversely impact our revenue and our relations with customers, suppliers, investors and others. System failures could hurt our business and we could be liable for some types of failures the extent or amount of which cannot be predicted. Like other system operators, our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our system from interruption caused by damage from flood, fire, earthquake, tornado or other natural disasters, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry or other events beyond our control. We maintain our own and outsourced offsite disaster recovery facilities for our primary data centers. In the event of major disasters, both our primary and backup locations could be equally impacted. We do not currently have sufficient backup and disaster recovery facilities to provide full services if our primary facilities are not functioning. In addition, some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery plans and systems do not account for all possible scenarios. Further, our disaster recovery systems currently include certain back-up systems that are not compliant with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards. As a result, if we were to operate on those systems, we could be obligated to bring them into such compliance. Beginning in 2011, we have undertaken steps to enhance our disaster recovery capabilities, including adding co-locations and redundant systems for our primary service delivery systems. At this time, we have not completed all of the steps that we believe are necessary to fully implement our disaster recovery plans and systems. No assurance can be given that we will complete these plans on time or within budget, that an event will not occur prior to completion of our plans resulting in an interruption in service, or that once completed such plans and systems will operate as intended or cover all types of contingencies. We could also experience potentially significant system interruptions due to the failure of our systems to function as intended or the failure of the systems we rely upon to deliver our services, such as: ATM networks, the Internet, the systems of financial institution clients and service providers, processors that integrate with our systems and other networks and systems of third parties. Loss of all or part of our systems or the systems of third parties with which our systems interface for a period of time could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be liable to our clients for breach of contract for interruptions in service. Due to the numerous variables surrounding system disruptions, we cannot predict the extent or amount of any potential liability. Security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our business. Like other system operators, our computer systems may be vulnerable to computer viruses, hackers, and other disruptive problems caused by unauthorized access to, or improper use of, our systems by third parties or employees. We store and transmit confidential financial information about our clients and end-users, including credit card data, in the ordinary course of providing our services. Computer attacks or disruptions may jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems or those of our clients and their end-users. Actual or perceived concerns that our systems may be vulnerable to such attacks or disruptions may deter financial services providers and consumers from using our services. In addition, any loss of cardholder data by us or our clients could result in significant fines and sanctions against us by the card networks or governmental bodies, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant breach or failure to maintain adequate security systems could also result in our being prohibited from processing transactions for card networks. In this event, we may be subject to liability, including claims for unauthorized purchases with misappropriated bankcard information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims. We could also be subject to liability for claims relating to misuse of personal information, such as unauthorized marketing purposes. Further, these claims could result in protracted and costly litigation and we could be subject to substantial penalties or sanctions from the card networks or governmental authorities, or both. Losses or liabilities that we incur as a result of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business. 19 Table of Contents Additionally, a majority of states have adopted, and the remaining states may be adopting, laws and regulations requiring that in-state account holders of a financial services provider be notified if their personal confidential information is compromised. If the specific account holders whose information has been compromised cannot be identified, all in-state account holders of the provider must be promptly notified. If any such notice is required of us, confidence in our systems’ integrity would be undermined and both financial services providers and consumers may be reluctant to use our services. Data networks are also increasingly vulnerable to attacks, unauthorized access and disruptions. For example, in a number of public networks, hackers have bypassed firewalls and misappropriated confidential information. It is possible that, despite existing safeguards, an employee, third party or hacker could divert end-user funds while these funds are in our control, exposing us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. In dealing with numerous end-users, it is possible that some level of fraud or error will occur, which may result in erroneous external payments. We are subject to compliance with the rules and regulations under the Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standard, or PCI DSS, and failure to comply with the applicable standards may subject us to substantial fines and penalties and contractual liability. A substantial portion of our revenues during the period covered by this report were derived from transactions subject to the rules and regulations of the leading card associations, VISA and MasterCard, pursuant to the rules of such associations as well as contracts with certain of our clients. For example, we must remain fully compliant with the PCI Data Security Standard, a security standard with which companies that collect, store or transmit certain data regarding credit, credit card holders and credit card transactions are required to comply. We must be certified by a third party auditor in order to maintain our status as a PCI DSS compliant service provider on an annual basis. The card associations’ and payment networks’ rules and regulations are always subject to change, and the card associations or payment networks may modify their rules and regulations from time to time. Our inability to anticipate changes in rules, regulations or the interpretation or application thereof may result in substantial disruption to our business. Further, our failure to comply fully with PCI DSS may violate payment card association operating rules, federal and state laws and regulations, and the terms of our contracts with customers, payment processors and merchant banks. Such failure to comply fully may also subject us to fines, penalties, damages, and civil liability, and may result in the loss of our ability to accept credit card payments or prohibit us from processing transactions through MasterCard, VISA and other card and payment networks. While we have implemented network security measures designed to meet or exceed the PCI DSS requirements, we cannot assure you that we will maintain PCI DSS compliance or that such compliance will prevent illegal or improper use of our payment systems or the theft, loss, or misuse of data pertaining to credit and debit cards, credit and debit card holders and credit and debit card transactions. Our loss of PCI certification could make our business solutions less attractive to our customers or give rise to fines and penalties or loss of our ability to process payments through the card association networks, any of which in turn would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The potential obsolescence of our technology or the offering of new, more efficient means of conducting account presentation and payments services could negatively impact our business. The industry for web-based account presentation and payments services is subject to rapid change. Our success will depend substantially upon our ability to enhance our existing products and to develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products and features that meet changing client and end-user requirements and incorporate technological advancements. If we are unable to develop new products and enhanced functionalities or technologies for our existing products to adapt to these changes or, if we cannot offset a decline in revenues of existing products by sales of new products, our business would suffer resulting in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, we will incur significant cost in connection with our efforts to develop new products and enhance and maintain our existing products, including costs in upgrading existing information technology systems and equipment. 20 Table of Contents We rely on internally developed software and systems as well as third-party products, any of which may contain errors and bugs. Our products may contain undetected errors, defects or bugs. Although we have not suffered significant harm from any errors or defects to date, we may discover significant errors or defects in the future that we may or may not be able to correct. Our products involve integration with products and systems developed by third parties. Complex software programs of third parties may contain undetected errors or bugs when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. While we maintain quality assurance and audit processes as part of our software development life cycle, there can be no assurance that we will identify and remedy all errors in our existing or future products or third-party products upon which our products are dependent, with the possible result of delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products, diversion of our resources, injury to our reputation and increased expenses and/or payment of damages. The failure to attract or retain our officers and skilled employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to attract, assimilate or retain highly qualified managerial and technical personnel, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our executive officers and key employees who must be knowledgeable and experienced in both financial services and technology. We are also dependent on our ability to retain and motivate high quality personnel, especially management and highly skilled technical teams. The loss of the services of any executive officers or key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future success also depends on the continuing ability to identify, hire, train and retain other highly qualified managerial and technical personnel. If our managerial and key personnel fail to effectively manage our business, our results of operations and reputation could be harmed. In June 2010, our board of directors appointed Joseph L. Cowan as President and Chief Executive Officer and as a member of the Board of Directors. The transition to Mr. Cowan’s leadership of the Company continues to lead to changes in our corporate strategy and execution. These changes may negatively impact our ability to meet key corporate and financial objectives, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our recent changes of chief executive officer may be viewed negatively and have an adverse impact on our business. In addition to the appointment of Joseph L. Cowan as president and chief executive officer, John C. Dorman, who served as interim chief executive officer prior to Mr. Cowan’s appointment, now serves as chairman of the Board of Directors. Until investors, employees, customers, suppliers, and others grow more familiar with Mr. Cowan’s and Mr. Dorman’s leadership, they could react negatively to their appointments. Matthew P. Lawlor, who had served as chief executive officer and chairman for the preceding twenty years, retired as chief executive officer on December 14, 2009 and resigned as a director and chairman on January 20, 2010. Our relationship with Mr. Lawlor is currently adversarial and we are currently seeking an appeal of the judgment awarded to Mr. Lawlor in his lawsuit against the Company related to the financial arrangements associated with his retirement. Mr. Lawlor could also potentially attempt to influence the Company’s affairs or general goodwill in its markets. The potential negative reactions related to the changes in our chief executive officer and chairman positions, and the litigation with Mr. Lawlor, could adversely impact our revenue, capital needs, ability to retain employees, relations with customers, suppliers, investors and others, and our business in general. If we are unable to gain a reversal of the judgment obtained against us by our former chairman and chief executive officer, our financial conditions may be adversely affected and we may be required to seek additional financing to satisfy our need for available funds. In April 2011 Matthew P. Lawlor, our former chairman and chief executive officer, obtained a civil jury verdict against the Company on several of the claims contained in his employment-related lawsuit against the Company. 21 Table of Contents Mr. Lawlor was awarded $5,265,619 in damages plus pre-judgment interest and attorneys’ fees. As a result of this verdict, we recorded an aggregate reserve of $8.0 million. After post-trial motions and proceedings, on November 8, 2011 the court issued a judgment awarding Mr. Lawlor $5,265,619 in damages plus pre-judgment statutory interest and $2,131,035 in attorneys’ fees plus applicable interest. On November 28, 2011 the Company suspended Mr. Lawlor’s execution of the judgment, pending appeal, by posting security with the court in the form of an irrevocable standby letter of credit in an amount not exceeding $8,446,143. As such, we have secured and are currently pursuing the right to seek an appeal of this judgment to the Supreme Court of Virginia. If we are unable to obtain a grant to appeal the judgment, or to have the judgment reversed on appeal, the judgment may become payable at a time when we have insufficient working capital or available funds. In that case, we may be required to seek additional funds that may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Further, even if we do have sufficient funds to pay amounts, if any, required to be paid as a result of the judgment, the use of the funds to pay the judgment will reduce the amount of funds available for our ongoing operations. Under such circumstances, our financial condition could be adversely affected. We could be sued for contract or product liability claims and lawsuits may disrupt our business, divert management’s attention or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our clients use our products and services to provide web-based account presentation, bill payment, and other financial services to their end-users. Failures in a client’s system could result in an increase in service and warranty costs or a claim for substantial damages against us. There can be no assurance that the limitations of liability set forth in our contracts would be enforceable or would otherwise protect us from liability for damages. We maintain general liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors and omissions in excess of the applicable deductible amount. There can be no assurance that this coverage will continue to be available on acceptable terms or will be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial cost to us and divert management’s attention from our operations. Any contract liability claim or litigation against us could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, because many of our projects are business-critical projects for financial services providers, a failure or inability to meet a client’s expectations could seriously damage our reputation and affect our ability to retain existing clients and attract new business. Failure to comply with financial network operating rules could reduce the value of our services to our clients and make those services more costly to provide. Our services require interaction with most financial networks (including VISA, MasterCard and Discovery, among others). Each of these networks has its own evolving set of operating rules governing various aspects of the business we do with them, including transaction eligibility, data formatting, record keeping and processing and pricing methodology. Some of these networks also limit our access to certain of their operating rules, making the task of compliance often more difficult. Additionally, we can be held accountable for compliance by our clients if they access these networks through us. Our operating agreements with these networks give them the right to perform periodic examinations of our compliance with their operating rules. They have the sole authority to interpret these rules and can require us to stop or change anything we do that they consider non-compliant. Failure to comply with a network’s operating rules, or a disagreement with a network’s examiners regarding our compliance, could result in financial penalties, the inability to access the network or the loss of certain clients or lines of business using services relying on such network, each of which could adversely affect our revenue and profits. If we have to modify our services to maintain compliance, or if we cannot access a network, our services reliant on such network could become less valuable to our clients, we could be prohibited from providing such services or our operations could become more costly, each of which could adversely affect our revenues and profits. 22 Table of Contents Certain payment funding methods expose us to the credit and/or operating risk of our clients. When we process an automated clearing house or automated teller machine network payment transaction for a client, we initiate a transaction to withdraw funds from the designated source account and deposit them into our off-balance sheet settlement account, which is a trust account maintained for the benefit of our clients. We then initiate a simultaneous transaction to transfer funds from our settlement account to the intended destination account. These “back to back” transactions are designed to settle at the same time, usually overnight, such that we receive the funds from the source at the same time as we send the funds to their destination. It is possible, however, that the source account may not have sufficient funds for the transaction, the institution controlling the account may commit an operational error causing insufficient funds to be sent or the account may be subject to legal or other constraints that prevent the withdrawal of the funds. The vast majority of these occurrences are resolved quickly though normal processes. However, if they are not resolved and we are then unable to reverse the transaction that sent funds to the intended destination, a shortfall in our settlement account will be created. We have legal and contractual recourse against our clients for the amount of the shortfall, but timing of recovery may be delayed by litigation or other legal processes. Additionally, the amount of recovery may be diminished if our clients’ creditworthiness is not then sufficient to cover the shortfall. If we are unable to recover the funds through any of these methods, we may have to fund the shortfall in our settlement account from our corporate funds. Government regulation applicable to our business may interfere with the operation of our business and impose costly compliance burdens, any of which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry is subject to extensive, complex and changing federal and state regulation. In addition, our clients are heavily concentrated in the financial services, utility and healthcare industries, and therefore operate under high levels of governmental supervision. Our clients must ensure that our services and related products work within the extensive and evolving regulatory requirements applicable to them. We are not licensed by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau or other federal or state agencies that regulate or supervise depository institutions or other providers of financial services. Under the authority of the Bank Service Company Act, the Gramm Leach Bliley Act of 1999, and other federal laws that apply to depository financial institutions, federal depository institution regulators have taken the position that we are subject to examination resulting from the services we provide to the institutions they regulate. In order not to compromise our clients’ standing with the regulatory authorities, we have agreed to periodic examinations by these regulators, who have broad supervisory authority to remedy any shortcomings identified in any such examination. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, substantial costs in connection with compliance with such laws and regulations. Federal, state or foreign authorities could also adopt laws, rules or regulations relating to the industries we serve that affect our business, such as requiring us or our clients to comply with additional data, record keeping and processing and other requirements. It is possible that laws and regulations may be enacted or modified with respect to the Internet, covering issues such as end-user privacy, pricing, content, characteristics, taxation and quality of services and products. If enacted or deemed applicable to us, these laws, rules or regulations could be imposed on our activities or our business, thereby rendering our business or operations more costly, burdensome, less efficient or impossible and requiring us to modify our current or future products or services. Changes in, or enhanced regulatory oversight under, the laws, regulations, credit card association rules or other industry standards applicable to our business may interfere with the operation of our business and impose costly compliance burdens, any of which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. There may be changes in the laws, regulations, card network rules or other industry standards that affect our operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. Additionally, we have seen enhanced regulatory 23 Table of Contents oversight by governmental agencies that oversee our clients and, to some extent, our industry. Changes to statutes, regulations or industry standards, including interpretation and implementation of statutes, regulations or standards, could increase the cost of doing business or affect the competitive balance. Failure to comply with laws, rules and regulations or standards to which we are subject in the U.S. as well as internationally, including the card network rules and rules with respect to privacy and information security, may result in the suspension or revocation of a license or registration, the limitation, suspension or termination of service, and the imposition of fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and the rest of the financial services industry continue to experience increased legislative and regulatory scrutiny, including the enactment of additional legislative and regulatory initiatives such as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Reform Act”). This legislation provides for significant financial regulatory reform. The Reform Act, among other things, provides for the regulation and oversight by the Federal Reserve Board of debit interchange fees that are typically paid by acquirers and charged or received by a payment card network for the purpose of compensating an issuer for its involvement in an electronic debit transaction. The Reform Act also created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau which will assume responsibility for most federal consumer protection laws in the area of financial services, including consumer credit. In addition, the Reform Act created a Financial Stability Oversight Council that has the authority to determine whether nonbank financial service companies, such as the Company, should be supervised by the Federal Reserve Board because they are systemically important to the U.S. financial system. Any such designation would result in increased regulatory burdens on our business. These regulations and increased oversight may adversely affect our business or operations or the business and operations of our clients. The creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Reform Act created a new independent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, with responsibility for most federal consumer protection laws in the area of financial services and new authority with respect to consumer protection issues, including those pertaining to us to some extent. The bureau’s future actions may make payment card transactions less attractive to card issuers, consumers and merchants by further regulating disclosures, payment card practices, fees, routing and other matters with respect to credit, debit, and prepaid. Some elements of the Reform Act are vague or lack definition and create the potential for networks to pursue different strategies subject to their interpretation of the regulation. Our interpretation may result in our pursuit of strategies less effective than those of our competitors. Overall, these regulations and developments arising from the Reform Act could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company may be deemed to be engaged in the business of being a “money transmitter” under certain state money transmitter laws that would require the Company to obtain money transmitter licenses in such states and may result in the imposition of fines, penalties, restrictions or certain changes in the manner in which we conduct certain aspects of our business. Our business is subject to various laws and regulations in the U.S. and certain other countries where we operate or offer our services to our clients, including those governing money transmission, electronic funds transfers, money laundering, counter-terrorist financing, sanctions, banking and lending. The legal and regulatory requirements that apply to the manner in which we offer our bill payment services, in particular, have evolved in recent years and vary in the markets where we offer such services. Many states require that companies engaged in money transmitter business, as defined by such individual states, be licensed to conduct that business in such states. We continue to closely review the various requirements of the individual states and how their licensing laws may or may not relate to our business and the particular manner in which we provide our services to our clients. Based on this review and our interpretation of these various requirements, it is possible we may determine that it is necessary to obtain money transmitter licenses in all or some of the states in which we offer our services to our clients or to change the way we operate certain aspects of our business to ensure compliance with applicable state laws. Further, it is possible that one or more states would take the position that we are required to obtain a money transmitter license to conduct certain aspects of our business in such state(s), which 24 Table of Contents would result in substantial costs and commitment of resources relating to obtaining the requisite license(s) and undertaking ongoing state reporting and other compliance requirements. Any such additional regulatory costs, burdens and accompanying changes to our operations which may make certain of our services less attractive to our clients could materially and adversely affect our business and our financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot maintain a satisfactory rating from the federal depository institution regulators, we may lose existing clients and have difficulty attracting new clients. The examination reports of the federal agencies that examine us are distributed and made available to our depository clients. A less than satisfactory rating from any regulatory agency increases the obligation of our clients to monitor our capabilities and performance as a part of their own compliance process. It could also cause our clients and prospective clients to lose confidence in our ability to adequately provide services, thereby possibly causing them to seek alternate providers, which would have a corresponding detrimental impact on our revenues and profits. We are exposed to costs and risks associated with complying with corporate governance and disclosure standards. We are spending an increased amount of management time and external resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including but not limited to, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (as amended), other SEC regulations and Nasdaq Global Select Market rules. In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control systems, and attestations of the effectiveness of these systems by our independent registered public accounting firm. We document and test our internal control systems and procedures and consider improvements that may be necessary in order for us to comply with the requirements of Section 404. This process requires us to hire outside advisory services and results in significant expenses for us. In addition, the evaluation and attestation processes required by Section 404 are conducted annually. In the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or independent registered public accounting firm determines that our controls over financial reporting or disclosure are not effective as defined under Section 404 in the future, investor perceptions of our Company may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. Risks Related to Our Capital and Debt Structure If we are unable to obtain additional financing or renegotiate terms of our Series A-1 Preferred Stock, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. The Company’s current cash balance and projected cash flows are not sufficient to repay both the $20.3 million in 2007 Notes due in 2013 and to redeem the Series A-1 Preferred Stock on the redemption date as described and discussed below. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, or to restructure or renegotiate the terms of the Series A-1 Preferred Stock, there can be no assurance that we will be able to make payments in accordance with our obligations thereunder. We have a substantial number of shares of common and convertible preferred stock outstanding, including shares of Series A-1 Preferred Stock and shares of common stock that may be issued upon exercise of grants under our equity compensation plans that, if sold, could affect the trading price of our common stock. We have issued shares of our common and Series A-1 Preferred Stock in connection with certain acquisitions and may issue additional shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions or financings. We issued the shares of Series A-1 Preferred Stock to a single investor as a part of the financing for our acquisition of Princeton eCom Corporation in 2006. As of December 31, 2011, the Series A-1 Preferred Stock was convertible into up to 5,102,986 million shares of common stock. We also have over 3.1 million shares of common stock that may be issued upon the exercise of stock options and or vesting of restricted stock. Further, as described above, we may issue additional shares of common stock, or instruments convertible into 25 Table of Contents additional shares of common stock, to the holder of the outstanding shares of Series A-1 Preferred Stock. In that event, the holder of such shares may elect to sell all or part of the shares. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for future sale will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares issued upon the exercise of equity compensation grants), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. We have a significant amount of debt and redeemable preferred stock which will have to be repaid and may adversely affect our financial performance. Our debt balance at December 31, 2011 was approximately $20.3 million. The Company’s Series A-1 Preferred Stock is carried at its fair value at inception adjusted for accretion of unpaid dividends and interest accruing thereon, the 115% redemption price, the original fair value of the bifurcated embedded derivative, and the amortized portion of its original issuance costs, which approximates its redemption value. At December 31, 2011 its carrying value was $120.1 million. The principal and interest we pay on the debt and the amounts we accrete to the Series A-1 Preferred Stock reduce our earnings and our cash flows. The reduction of our earnings associated with this debt and redeemable Series A-1 Preferred Stock could have an adverse impact on the trading price of our shares of common stock. Our plans to operate and grow may be limited if we are unable to obtain sufficient financing. We may desire to expand our business through future strategic acquisitions and exploiting new markets when we identify desirable opportunities. We may need additional equity and debt financing for these purposes, but may not be able to obtain such financing on acceptable terms, or at all. Our existing debt financing limits our capacity to borrow additional funds and carries interest expense that burdens our cost structure. Additionally, the holders of our preferred stock must approve the issuance of any debt or equity financing except for equity issued in a public offering. In the event we increase our borrowings to fund a redemption of all or part of the Series A-1 Preferred Stock as discussed above, such borrowings will further limit our ability to obtain debt or equity financings for future acquisitions. Failure to obtain additional financing could weaken our operations or prevent us from achieving our business objectives. Further, equity financings, as well as debt financing with convertible features or accompanying warrants, can be dilutive to our stockholders. Negative covenants associated with debt or equity financings may also restrict the manner in which we would otherwise desire to operate our business. The holder of our outstanding Series A-1 Preferred Stock has a redemption right that may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and the operations of our business. The holder of the Series A-1 Preferred Stock has a right to request that the Company redeem all, or any part, of the Series A-1 Preferred Stock at any time on or after July 3, 2013, which is the seventh anniversary of the issue date of the Series A-1 Preferred Stock, at a redemption value of 115% of the face value of the stock, plus accrued dividends and an escalation accrual. Due to the fact that the escalation accrual is variable based on the iMoneyNet First Tier Institutional Average, the actual redemption price on or after July 3, 2013 cannot be determined with certainty at this time. However, the Company estimates that the redemption price for all of the issued and outstanding shares of Series A-1 Preferred Stock at July 3, 2013 will be approximately $129.2 million. The Series A-1 Preferred Stock provides that, in the event the holder of the shares elects to cause the Company to redeem the shares (which may be redeemed in full or in part), the shares so elected for redemption shall be redeemed by the Company by payment of the redemption price in cash “in full, from the funds legally available therefor.” Upon the election of this right of redemption with respect to all or any substantial portion of the shares, we anticipate that we will not have the necessary funds legally available to fully redeem the shares of Series A-1 Preferred Stock and we may not have the ability to raise funds for this purpose on favorable terms or at all. In the event we determine that we cannot redeem all of the outstanding shares so elected for redemption, the holder of the Series A-1 Preferred Stock could seek to challenge such determination by bringing legal action against the Company. In the event that on the redemption date, the Company does not redeem all of the shares of Series A-1 Preferred Stock called for redemption, thereafter, the Company’s obligation to redeem the portion of 26 Table of Contents the Series A-1 Preferred Stock elected to be redeemed would remain outstanding until redeemed. The Company’s Board would reassess the Company’s ability to redeem all or part of any remaining shares of Series A-1 Preferred Stock called for redemption on a periodic basis and would redeem as many of the shares as the Company has funds legally available for such redemption until all shares called for redemption have been redeemed. If the holder of the Series A-1 Preferred Stock exercises its right to redemption on or after July 3, 2013, such exercise and the resulting obligations of the Company with respect to the exercise could have a material adverse impact on our stock price, business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, unless we are able to renegotiate the terms of the Series A-1 Preferred Stock or otherwise raise the funds for redemption in advance of the redemption date, we may experience a material adverse impact on our stock price, business, financial condition and results of operations in advance of the redemption date due to market concerns relating to our ability to operate our business in the face of our potential redemption obligations. If the Company is able to negotiate a restructuring of our outstanding Series A-1 Preferred Stock in advance of the redemption date, the restructuring may result in additional indebtedness and/or dilution to our stockholders, any of which could have a material adverse impact on the Company, its stock price and its financial condition. The Company has undertaken the following actions in anticipation of the possibility that the holder of the outstanding Series A-1 Preferred Stock will exercise its redemption rights on or after July 3, 2013: (1) engaged a financial advisor to advise the Company on the amount and manner by which we might raise funds under existing market conditions in order to redeem or restructure all or part of the Series A-1 Preferred Stock, including advice with respect to our capacity for additional borrowings to be used for such purposes; (2) begun the process of seeking financial proposals from possible financing sources; (3) consulted with legal counsel to gain an understanding of the Company’s legal options in relation to the possible redemption; and (4) recently begun discussions with the holder of the Series A-1 Preferred Stock with respect to possible alternative approaches to its delivering a redemption notice to the Company in July 2013. Although we are in the early stages of this process, it is possible that the Company will negotiate a restructuring of the Series A-1 Preferred Stock that would include (A) the Company raising additional debt financing and using all or part of the proceeds to redeem all or part of the outstanding Series A-1 Preferred Stock, (B) the issuance of debt securities, including convertible debt or debt attached to warrants to acquire equity securities, in exchange for all or part of the Series A-1 Preferred Stock, (C) the issuance of shares of common stock in exchange for a portion of the Series A-1 Preferred Stock, (D) the issuance of other capital stock or securities convertible into capital stock to raise capital for the redemption or restructuring of the Series A-1 Preferred Stock, or (F) any combination of all or part of the foregoing. Given the foregoing, we can give no assurances that a restructuring of our obligations under our Series A-1 Preferred Stock will be achieved at all or on favorable terms to the Company or our stockholders. As noted above, it is possible that we will incur additional indebtedness to fund the redemption or restructuring of all or part of the Series A-1 Preferred Stock. In the event we increase our borrowings, we may not be able to meet the repayment obligations if we do not achieve the operating results anticipated at the time we incur such borrowings. Further, negative covenants associated with debt or equity financings may also restrict the manner in which we would otherwise desire to operate our business. The principal and interest we pay on such debt would reduce our earnings and cash flows. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. The reduction of our earnings associated with any such debt, as well as the dilutive effect of the issuance of any such equity securities or instruments convertible into equity securities, could have an adverse impact on the trading price of our outstanding shares of common stock. The holder of our outstanding Series A-1 Preferred Stock has liquidation and other rights that are senior to the rights of the holders of our common stock. Our board of directors has the authority to designate and issue preferred stock that may have dividend, liquidation and other rights that are senior to those of our common stock. As described above, our Board 27 Table of Contents previously designated and the Company issued 75,000 shares of Series A-1 Preferred Stock for an aggregate original issue price of $75,000,000. Holders of our shares of Series A-1 Preferred Stock are entitled to a liquidation preference, before amounts are distributed on our shares of common stock, of 115% of the original issue price of these shares ($86,250,000) plus 8% per annum of the original issue price with an interest factor thereon tied to the iMoneyNet First Tier Institutional Average. This will reduce the remaining amount of our assets, if any, available to distribute to holders of our common stock in the event of a sale or dissolution of the Company. In addition, holders of our Series A-1 Preferred Stock have the right to elect (and have elected) one director to our board of directors. The holder of our outstanding Series A-1 Preferred Stock also has voting rights that may restrict our ability to take corporate actions. The Company we cannot issue any security or evidence of indebtedness, other than in connection with an underwritten public offering, without the consent of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series A-1 Preferred Stock. We also cannot amend our certificate of incorporation nor have our Board designate any future series of preferred stock if any such amendment or designation adversely impacts the Series A-1 Preferred Stock. Our inability to obtain these required consents may have an adverse impact in our ability to issue securities in the future in order to advance our business. Future offerings of debt, which would be senior to our common stock upon liquidation, and/or preferred equity securities which may be senior to our common stock for purposes of dividend distributions or upon liquidation, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making additional offerings of debt or preferred equity securities, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes and preferred stock. Upon liquidation, including deemed liquidations resulting from an acquisition of our company, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. Our Series A-1 Preferred Stock has a preference on liquidating distributions that could limit our ability to pay a dividend or make another distribution to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their stock holdings. If we are unable to comply with the covenants in our credit agreement, a default under the terms of that agreement could arise thereby potentially resulting in an acceleration of the repayment of borrowed funds. Our existing credit agreement requires us to comply with certain covenants, including prescribed financial requirements. Our ability to meet these requirements may be affected by events beyond our control, including, without limitation, sales levels, contract terminations and market pricing pressures. No assurance can be provided that our financial performance will enable us to remain in compliance with these financial requirements. If we are unable to comply with the terms of our credit agreement, a default could arise under this agreement. In the event of a default, our lenders could terminate their commitment to lend or accelerate any loans and declare all amounts borrowed due and payable. In this event, there can be no assurance that we would be able to make the necessary payment to the lenders or that we would be able to find alternative financing on terms acceptable to us. Our stock price is volatile. The market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations and may continue to be volatile in response to, among other things: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • announcements of technological innovations; 28 Table of Contents • new products or services offered by us or our competitors; • changes in financial estimates or ratings by securities analysts; • conditions or trends in the Internet and online commerce industries; • changes in the economic performance and/or market valuations of other Internet, online service industries; • announcements by us of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • recent and potential proxy fights; • additions or departures of key personnel; • future equity or debt offerings, restructurings, redemptions or acquisitions or our announcements of these transactions; and • other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control, including without limitation the events and factors discussed in the “Risk Factors” set forth in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The stock market in general, and the Nasdaq Global Select Market specifically, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations and volatility that have particularly affected the market prices of many technology companies. Such fluctuations and volatility have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against a company. Litigation, if and when pursued by or against the Company, whether or not successful, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 