Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below. The global economic downturn in recent years has reduced worldwide demand for steel products and adversely affected our profitability. While the rate of deterioration of the global economy slowed in the second half of 2009 and into 2010, with some signs of stabilization and improvement, there can be no assurance that such recovery will continue. Difficulties affecting the U.S. and global financial sectors, adverse conditions and volatility in the U.S. and worldwide credit and financial markets, fluctuations in oil and commodity prices and the general weakness of the U.S. and global economy have increased the uncertainty of global economic prospects in general and have adversely affected the global and Korean economies. The global 4 Table of Contents economic downturn in recent years has had a pronounced negative effect on the global demand for steel products and their prices. While the rate of deterioration of the global economy slowed in the second half of 2009 and into 2010, with some signs of stabilization and improvement, the overall prospects for the Korean and global economy in 2010 and beyond remain uncertain. In response to sluggish demand from our customers in industries adversely impacted by the deteriorating global economic conditions in the second half of 2008, such as automotive and construction industries, we reduced our crude steel production and sales prices in December 2008 and the first quarter of 2009. Signs that the pace of deterioration in market conditions had slowed began to appear in the second quarter of 2009, however, and demand from certain segments of our customer base, including the domestic automotive and construction industries, showed signs of recovery starting in the second quarter of 2009. In response, we began to incrementally increase our crude steel production starting in April 2009 and our production level normalized in the second half of 2009. Prices of our steel products also gradually recovered starting in the third quarter of 2009. However, there can be no assurance that such recovery will continue, and we may decide to adjust our future crude steel production or our sales prices on an on-going basis subject to market demand for our products, the production outlook of the global steel industry and global economic conditions in general. Deterioration of market conditions may result in changes in assumptions underlying the carrying value of certain assets, which in turn could result in impairment of such assets, including intangible assets such as goodwill. We expect fluctuation in demand for our steel products to continue to prevail at least in the near future, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Korea is our most important market, and our current business and future growth could be materially and adversely affected if economic conditions in Korea deteriorate. We are incorporated in Korea, and a substantial portion of our operations and assets are located in Korea. In addition, Korea is our most important market, accounting for 62.6% of our total sales volume of steel products in 2009. Domestic demand for our products is affected by the condition of major steel consuming industries, such as construction, shipbuilding, automotive, electrical appliances and downstream steel processors, and the Korean economy in general. As a result, we are subject to political, economic, legal and regulatory risks specific to Korea. The economic indicators in Korea in recent years have shown mixed signs, and future growth of the Korean economy is subject to many factors beyond our control. Recent difficulties affecting the U.S. and global financial sectors, adverse conditions and volatility in the worldwide credit and financial markets, fluctuations in oil and commodity prices and the general weakness of the U.S. and global economy have increased the uncertainty of global economic prospects in general and have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the Korean economy. Due to recent liquidity and credit concerns and volatility in the global financial markets, the value of the Won relative to the Dollar has also fluctuated significantly in recent years. Furthermore, as a result of adverse global and Korean economic conditions, there has been continuing volatility in the stock prices of Korean companies. Any future deterioration of the Korean or global economy could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Developments that could have an adverse impact on Korea’s economy in the future include: • continuing difficulties in the housing and financial sectors in the United States and elsewhere and increased sovereign default risks in select countries and the resulting adverse effects on the global financial markets; • declines in consumer confidence and a slowdown in consumer spending; • adverse changes or volatility in foreign currency reserve levels, commodity prices (including oil prices), exchange rates (including fluctuation of the Dollar or Japanese Yen exchange rates or revaluation of the Chinese renminbi), interest rates or stock markets; 5 Table of Contents • continuing adverse conditions in the economies of countries that are important export markets for Korea, such as the United States, Japan and China, or in emerging market economies in Asia or elsewhere; • increasing delinquencies and credit defaults by retail and small- and medium-sized enterprise borrowers; • the continued emergence of the Chinese economy, to the extent its benefits (such as increased exports to China) are outweighed by its costs (such as competition in export markets or for foreign investment and the relocation of the manufacturing base from Korea to China); • the economic impact of any pending or future free trade agreements; • social and labor unrest; • substantial decreases in the market prices of Korean real estate; • a decrease in tax revenues and a substantial increase in the Government’s expenditures for fiscal stimulus measures, unemployment compensation and other economic and social programs that, together, would lead to an increased Government budget deficit; • financial problems or lack of progress in the restructuring of Korean conglomerates, other large troubled companies, their suppliers or the financial sector; • loss of investor confidence arising from corporate accounting irregularities and corporate governance issues at certain Korean conglomerates; • geo-political uncertainty and risk of further attacks by terrorist groups around the world; • the occurrence of severe health epidemics in Korea and other parts of the world; • deterioration in economic or diplomatic relations between Korea and its trading partners or allies, including deterioration resulting from trade disputes or disagreements in foreign policy; • political uncertainty or increasing strife among or within political parties in Korea; • hostilities involving oil producing countries in the Middle East and any material disruption in the supply of oil or increase in the price of oil; and • an increase in the level of tensions or an outbreak of hostilities between North Korea and Korea or the United States. We rely on export sales for a significant portion of our total sales. Adverse economic and financial developments in Asia in the future may have an adverse effect on demand for our products in Asia and increase our foreign exchange risks. Our export sales and overseas sales to customers abroad accounted for 37.4% of our total sales volume of steel products in 2009. Our export sales volume to customers in Asia, including China, Japan, Indonesia, Thailand and Malaysia, accounted for 65.8% of our total export sales volume for steel products in 2009, and we expect our sales to these countries, especially to China, to remain important in the future. Accordingly, adverse economic and financial developments in these countries may have an adverse effect on demand for our products. Economic weakness in Asia may also adversely affect our sales to the Korean companies that export to the region, especially companies in the construction, shipbuilding, automotive, electrical appliances and downstream steel processing industries. Weaker demand in these countries, combined with addition of new steel production capacity, particularly in China, may also reduce export prices in Dollar terms of our principal products. We attempt to maintain and expand our export sales to generate foreign currency 6 Table of Contents receipts to cover our foreign currency purchases and debt service requirements. Consequently, any decrease in our export sales could also increase our foreign exchange risks. Depreciation of the value of the Won against the Dollar and other major foreign currencies may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations and on the price of the ADSs. The Won has fluctuated significantly against major currencies in recent years. The market average exchange rate, as announced by the Seoul Money Brokerage Services, Ltd., depreciated from Won 938.2 to US$1.00 as of December 31, 2007 to Won 1,573.6 to US$1.00 as of March 3, 2009 but appreciated to W1,167.6 to US$1.00 as of December 31, 2009. The market average exchange rate, as announced by the Seoul Money Brokerage Services, Ltd., was Won 1,188.2 to US$1.00 on June 24, 2010. Depreciation of the Won may materially affect the results of our operations because, among other things, it causes: • an increase in the amount of Won required for us to make interest and principal payments on our foreign currency-denominated debt, which accounted for approximately 56.1% of our total long-term debt (excluding discounts on debentures issued and including current portion) as of December 31, 2009; • an increase in Won terms in the costs of raw materials and equipment that we purchase from overseas sources and a substantial portion of our freight costs, which are denominated primarily in Dollars; and • foreign exchange translation losses on liabilities, which lower our earnings for accounting purposes. Appreciation of the Won, on the other hand, (i) causes our export products to be less competitive by raising our prices in Dollar terms and (ii) reduces net sales and accounts receivables in Won from export sales, which are primarily denominated in Dollars. However, because of the larger positive effects of the appreciation of the Won (i.e., the reverse of the negative effects caused by the depreciation of the Won, as discussed above), appreciation of the Won generally has a positive impact on our results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Won and the Dollar will also affect the Dollar equivalent of the Won price of the shares of our common stock on the KRX KOSPI Market and, as a result, will likely affect the market price of the ADSs. These fluctuations will also affect the Dollar conversion by the depositary for the ADRs of cash dividends, if any, paid in Won on shares of common stock represented by the ADSs. We are dependent on imported raw materials, and significant increases in market prices of essential raw materials could adversely affect our margins and profits. We purchase substantially all of the principal raw materials we use from sources outside Korea, including iron ore and coal. In 2009, POSCO imported approximately 41.7 million dry metric tons of iron ore and 21.7 million wet metric tons of coal. Iron ore is imported primarily from Australia, Brazil and South Africa. Coal is imported primarily from Australia, Canada and China. Although we have not experienced significant unanticipated supply disruptions in the past, supply disruptions, which could be caused by political or other events in the countries from which we import these materials, could adversely affect our operations. In addition, we are particularly exposed to increases in the prices of coal, iron ore and nickel, which represent the largest components of our cost of goods sold. The prices of our key raw materials have fluctuated significantly in recent years. For example, the average price of coal per wet metric ton (benchmark free on board price of Australian premium hard coking coal) was $98 in 2007, $300 in 2008 and $129 in 2009. The average price of iron ore per dry metric ton (benchmark free on board price of Australian iron ore fines with iron (Fe) 60% content) was $48.30 in 2007, $86.80 in 2008 and 7 Table of Contents $58.20 in 2009. Future increases in prices of our key raw materials and our inability to pass along such increases to our customers could adversely affect our margins and profits. Increased prices may also cause potential customers to defer purchase of steel products, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Excess capacity and oversupply in the global steel industry may adversely affect our profitability. In recent years, driven in part by strong growth in steel consumption in the developing world, particularly in China, the global steel industry has experienced renewed interest in expansion of steel production capacity. China is the largest steel producing country in the world by a significant margin, with the balance between its domestic production and demand being an important factor in the determination of global steel prices. In addition, Chinese steel exports may have a significant impact on steel prices in markets outside of China, including Korea. The increased production capacity, combined with a decrease in demand due to the recent slowdown of the global economy, has resulted in production over-capacity in the global steel industry. Production over-capacity in the global steel industry may intensify if the slowdown of the global economy is prolonged or demand from developing countries that have experienced significant growth in the past several years does not meet the recent growth in production capacity. Production over-capacity in the global steel industry is likely to: • reduce export prices in Dollar terms of our principal products, which in turn may reduce our sales prices in Korea; • increase competition in the Korean market as foreign producers seek to export steel products to Korea as other markets experience a slowdown; • negatively affect demand for our products abroad and our ability to expand export sales; and • affect our ability to increase steel production in general. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully in this economic environment or that the prolonged slowdown of the global economy or production over-capacity will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Disruptions in global credit and financial markets and the resulting governmental actions around the world could have a material adverse impact on our ability to meet our funding needs, and could cause the market value of our securities to decline. In recent years, disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets have resulted in increases in credit spreads and limitations on the availability of credit. Starting in mid-2007, credit markets in the United States began experiencing difficult conditions and increased volatility, which in turn adversely affected worldwide financial markets. Adverse conditions in the global credit and financial markets were further exacerbated in 2008 by the bankruptcy or acquisition of, and government assistance to, several major U.S. and European financial institutions. These developments resulted in reduced liquidity, greater volatility, widening of credit spreads and a reduction in price transparency in the U.S. and global financial markets. In response to such developments, legislators and financial regulators in the United States and other jurisdictions, including Korea, implemented a number of policy measures designed to add stability to the financial markets and stimulate the economy, including the provision of direct and indirect assistance to distressed financial institutions. However, while the rate of deterioration of the global economy slowed in the second half of 2009 and into 2010, with some signs of stabilization and improvement, the overall prospects for the Korean and global economy in 2010 and beyond remain 8 Table of Contents uncertain. For example, in November 2009, the Dubai government announced a moratorium on the outstanding debt of Dubai World, a government-affiliated investment company. In addition, many governments worldwide, in particular in Greece and other countries in southern Europe, are showing increasing signs of fiscal stress and may experience difficulties in meeting their debt service requirements. Any of these or other developments could potentially trigger another financial and economic crisis. In addition, while many governments worldwide are considering or are in the process of implementing “exit strategies,” in the form of reduced government spending, higher interest rates or otherwise, with respect to the economic stimulus measures adopted in response to the global financial crisis, such strategies may, for reasons related to timing, magnitude or other factors, have the unintended consequence of prolonging or worsening global economic and financial difficulties. Adverse conditions and uncertainty surrounding the Korean and global economies and financial markets may have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to meet our funding needs, as well as negatively affect the market prices of the ADSs. Consolidation and new market entrants in the global steel industry may increase competition. In recent years, there has been a trend toward industry consolidation among our competitors. For example, consolidation of Mittal and Arcelor in 2006 has created a company with approximately 10% of global steel production capacity. Competition from global steel manufacturers with expanded production capacity such as ArcelorMittal and new market entrants, especially from China and India, have resulted in significant price competition and may result in declining margins and reductions in revenue. Our larger competitors may use their resources, which may be greater than ours, against us in a variety of ways, including by making additional acquisitions, investing more aggressively in product development and capacity and displacing demand for our export products. Competition from steel substitute materials may reduce demand for steel products. Steel competes with other natural and synthetic materials that may be used as steel substitutes, such as aluminum, cement, composites, glass, plastic and wood. Government regulatory initiatives mandating the use of such materials instead of steel, whether for environmental or other reasons, as well as the development of attractive alternative substitutes for steel products, may reduce demand for steel products and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Expansion of our production operations abroad is important to our long-term success, and our limited experience in the operation of our business outside Korea increases the risk that our international expansion efforts will not be successful. We conduct international trading and construction operations abroad, and our business relies on a global trading network comprised of overseas subsidiaries, branches and representative offices. Although many of our subsidiaries and overseas branches are located in developed countries, we also operate in numerous countries with developing economies. In addition, we intend to continue to expand our production operations internationally by carefully seeking out promising investment opportunities, particularly in China, India and Southeast Asia, in part to prepare for the eventual maturation of the Korean steel market. We may enter into joint ventures with foreign steel producers that would enable us to rely on these businesses to conduct our operations, establish local networks and coordinate our sales and marketing efforts abroad. To the extent that we enter into these arrangements, our success will depend in part on the willingness of our partner companies to dedicate sufficient resources to their partnership with us. In other situations, we may decide to establish manufacturing facilities by ourselves instead of relying on partners. The demand and market acceptance for our products produced abroad are subject to a high level of uncertainty and are substantially dependent upon the market condition of the 9 Table of Contents global steel industry. We cannot assure you that our international expansion plan will be profitable or that we can recoup the costs related to such investments. Expansion of our trading, construction and production operations abroad requires management attention and resources. In addition, we face additional risks associated with our expansion outside Korea, including: • challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; • higher costs associated with doing business internationally; • legal and regulatory restrictions, including foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside Korea; • longer payment cycles in some countries; • credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; • currency exchange risks; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • political and economic instability; and • seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in some countries. We may from time to time engage in acquisitions for which we may be required to seek additional sources of capital. From time to time, we may selectively acquire or invest in companies or businesses that may complement our business. In order to finance these acquisitions, we intend to use cash on hand, funds from operations, issuances of equity and debt securities, and, if necessary, financings from banks and other sources as well as entering into consortiums with financial investors. However, no assurance can be given that we will obtain sufficient financing for such acquisitions or investments on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all. We also cannot assure you that such financings and related debt payment obligations will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. Several of our products have been and may become subject to anti-dumping or countervailing proceedings, which may have an adverse effect on our export sales. In recent years, several of our products have been subject to anti-dumping or countervailing proceedings, including in the United States, the European Union and China. Further increases in or new imposition of anti-dumping duties, countervailing duties, quotas or tariffs on our sales in these markets may have a material adverse effect on our exports to these regions in the future. Our export sales and overseas sales to customers in the United States, Europe and China accounted for 16.5% of our total sales volume of steel products in 2009. See “