Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below. The global economic downturn in recent years reduced worldwide demand for steel products in 2008 and 2009. While the rate of deterioration of the global economy slowed in the second half of 2009 and the global economy showed some signs of stabilization and improvement in 2010 and the first half of 2011, there can be no assurance that such recovery will continue. Difficulties affecting the U.S. and global financial sectors, adverse conditions and volatility in the U.S. and worldwide credit and financial markets, fluctuations in oil and commodity prices and the 4 Table of Contents general weakness of the U.S. and global economy have increased the uncertainty of global economic prospects in general and have adversely affected the global and Korean economies. The global economic downturn in recent years had a pronounced negative effect on the global demand for steel products and their prices in 2008 and 2009. While the rate of deterioration of the global economy slowed in the second half of 2009 and the global economy showed some signs of stabilization and improvement in 2010 and the first half of 2011, the overall prospects for the Korean and global economy in the second half of 2011 and beyond remain uncertain. In response to sluggish demand from our customers in industries adversely impacted by the deteriorating global economic conditions in the second half of 2008, such as the automotive and construction industries, we reduced our crude steel production and sales prices in December 2008 and the first quarter of 2009. Signs that the pace of deterioration in market conditions had slowed began to appear in the second quarter of 2009, however, and demand from certain segments of our customer base, including the domestic automotive and construction industries, showed signs of recovery starting in the second quarter of 2009. In response, we began to incrementally increase our crude steel production starting in April 2009 and our production level normalized in the second half of 2009. Our crude steel production decreased from 34.7 million tons in 2008 to 31.7 million tons in 2009 but rebounded to 35.3 million tons in 2010. Prices of our steel products also gradually recovered starting in the third quarter of 2009. However, there can be no assurance that such recovery will continue, and we may decide to adjust our future crude steel production or our sales prices on an on-going basis subject to market demand for our products, the production outlook of the global steel industry and global economic conditions in general. Deterioration of market conditions may result in changes in assumptions underlying the carrying value of certain assets, which in turn could result in impairment of such assets, including intangible assets such as goodwill. We expect fluctuation in demand for our steel products to continue to prevail at least in the near future, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Korea is our most important market, and our current business and future growth could be materially and adversely affected if economic conditions in Korea deteriorate. We are incorporated in Korea, and a substantial portion of our operations and assets are located in Korea. Korea is our most important market, accounting for 56.4% of our total sales volume of steel products in 2010. Domestic demand for our products is affected by the condition of major steel consuming industries, such as construction, shipbuilding, automotive, electrical appliances and downstream steel processors, and the Korean economy in general. In addition, the trading operations of Daewoo International Corporation are affected by the general level of trade between Korea and other countries, which in turn tends to fluctuate based on general conditions in the Korean and global economies. As a result, we are subject to political, economic, legal and regulatory risks specific to Korea. The economic indicators in Korea in recent years have shown mixed signs, and future growth of the Korean economy is subject to many factors beyond our control. Recent difficulties affecting the U.S. and global financial sectors, adverse conditions and volatility in the worldwide credit and financial markets, fluctuations in oil and commodity prices and the general weakness of the U.S. and global economy have increased the uncertainty of global economic prospects in general and have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the Korean economy. Due to recent liquidity and credit concerns and volatility in the global financial markets, the value of the Won relative to the Dollar has also fluctuated significantly in recent years. Furthermore, as a result of adverse global and Korean economic conditions, there has been continuing volatility in the stock prices of Korean companies. Any future deterioration of the Korean or global economy could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 5 Table of Contents Developments that could have an adverse impact on Korea’s economy in the future include: • difficulties in the housing and financial sectors in the United States and elsewhere and increased sovereign default risks in select countries and the resulting adverse effects on the global financial markets; • declines in consumer confidence and a slowdown in consumer spending; • adverse changes or volatility in foreign currency reserve levels, commodity prices (including oil prices), exchange rates (including fluctuation of the Dollar or Japanese Yen exchange rates or revaluation of the Chinese renminbi), interest rates or stock markets; • continuing adverse conditions in the economies of countries that are important export markets for Korea, such as the United States, Japan and China, or in emerging market economies in Asia or elsewhere; • increasing delinquencies and credit defaults by retail and small- and medium-sized enterprise borrowers; • the continued emergence of the Chinese economy, to the extent its benefits (such as increased exports to China) are outweighed by its costs (such as competition in export markets or for foreign investment and the relocation of the manufacturing base from Korea to China); • the economic impact of any pending or future free trade agreements; • social and labor unrest; • substantial decreases in the market prices of Korean real estate; • a decrease in tax revenues and a substantial increase in the Government’s expenditures for fiscal stimulus measures, unemployment compensation and other economic and social programs that, together, would lead to an increased Government budget deficit; • financial problems or lack of progress in the restructuring of Korean conglomerates, other large troubled companies, their suppliers or the financial sector; • loss of investor confidence arising from corporate accounting irregularities and corporate governance issues at certain Korean conglomerates; • geo-political uncertainty and risk of further attacks by terrorist groups around the world; • the occurrence of severe health epidemics in Korea and other parts of the world; • deterioration in economic or diplomatic relations between Korea and its trading partners or allies, including deterioration resulting from trade disputes or disagreements in foreign policy; • political uncertainty or increasing strife among or within political parties in Korea; • hostilities involving oil producing countries in the Middle East and any material disruption in the supply of oil or increase in the price of oil; • the occurrence of severe earthquakes, tsunamis or other natural disasters in Korea and other parts of the world, particularly in trading partners (such as the March 2011 earthquake in Japan, which also resulted in the release of radioactive materials from a nuclear plant that had been damaged by the earthquake); and • an increase in the level of tensions or an outbreak of hostilities between North Korea and Korea or the United States. 6 Table of Contents We rely on export sales for a significant portion of our total sales. Adverse economic and financial developments in Asia in the future may have an adverse effect on demand for our products in Asia and increase our foreign exchange risks. Our export sales and overseas sales to customers abroad accounted for 43.6% of our total sales volume of steel products in 2010. Our export sales volume to customers in Asia, including China, Japan, Indonesia, Thailand and Malaysia, accounted for 61.9% of our total export sales volume for steel products in 2010, and we expect our sales to these countries, especially to China, to remain important in the future. Accordingly, adverse economic and financial developments in these countries may have an adverse effect on demand for our products. Economic weakness in Asia may also adversely affect our sales to the Korean companies that export to the region, especially companies in the construction, shipbuilding, automotive, electrical appliances and downstream steel processing industries. Weaker demand in these countries, combined with addition of new steel production capacity, particularly in China, may also reduce export prices in Dollar terms of our principal products. We attempt to maintain and expand our export sales to generate foreign currency receipts to cover our foreign currency purchases and debt service requirements. Consequently, any decrease in our export sales could also increase our foreign exchange risks. Depreciation of the value of the Won against the Dollar and other major foreign currencies may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations and on the price of the ADSs. The Won has fluctuated significantly against major currencies in recent years. The market average exchange rate, as announced by the Seoul Money Brokerage Services, Ltd., depreciated from Won 938.2 to US$1.00 as of December 31, 2007 to Won 1,573.6 to US$1.00 as of March 3, 2009 but appreciated to Won 1,075.0 to US$1.00 as of June 23, 2011. Depreciation of the Won may materially affect the results of our operations because, among other things, it causes: • an increase in the amount of Won required for us to make interest and principal payments on our foreign currency-denominated debt, which accounted for approximately 53.5% of our total long-term debt (excluding discounts on debentures issued and including current portion) as of December 31, 2010; • an increase in Won terms in the costs of raw materials and equipment that we purchase from overseas sources and a substantial portion of our freight costs, which are denominated primarily in Dollars; and • foreign exchange translation losses on liabilities, which lower our earnings for accounting purposes. Appreciation of the Won, on the other hand, (i) causes our export products to be less competitive by raising our prices in Dollar terms and (ii) reduces net sales and accounts receivables in Won from export sales, which are primarily denominated in Dollars. However, because of the larger positive effects of the appreciation of the Won (i.e., the reverse of the negative effects caused by the depreciation of the Won, as discussed above), appreciation of the Won generally has a positive impact on our results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Won and the Dollar will also affect the Dollar equivalent of the Won price of the shares of our common stock on the KRX KOSPI Market and, as a result, will likely affect the market price of the ADSs. These fluctuations will also affect the Dollar conversion by the depositary for the ADRs of cash dividends, if any, paid in Won on shares of common stock represented by the ADSs. 7 Table of Contents We are dependent on imported raw materials, and significant increases in market prices of essential raw materials could adversely affect our margins and profits. We purchase substantially all of the principal raw materials we use from sources outside Korea, including iron ore and coal. POSCO imported approximately 49.3 million dry metric tons of iron ore and 26.2 million wet metric tons of coal in 2010. Iron ore is imported primarily from Australia, Brazil and South Africa. Coal is imported primarily from Australia, Canada and China. Although we have not experienced significant unanticipated supply disruptions in the past, supply disruptions, which could be caused by political or other events in the countries from which we import these materials, could adversely affect our operations. In addition, we are particularly exposed to increases in the prices of coal, iron ore and nickel, which represent the largest components of our cost of goods sold. The prices of our key raw materials have fluctuated significantly in recent years. For example, the average market price of coal per wet metric ton (benchmark free on board price of Australian premium hard coking coal) was US$250 in 2008, US$172 in 2009 and US$191 in 2010. The average market price of iron ore per dry metric ton (free on board price of Platts Iron Ore index with iron (Fe) 62% content) was US$126 in 2008, US$68 in 2009 and US$136 in 2010. Our long-term supply contracts generally have terms of three to ten years and provide for periodic price adjustments to the then-market prices. We typically adjust the prices on a quarterly basis and maintain approximately one month of inventory of raw materials. Future increases in prices of our key raw materials and our inability to pass along such increases to our customers could adversely affect our margins and profits. Increased prices may also cause potential customers to defer purchase of steel products, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Excess capacity and oversupply in the global steel industry may adversely affect our profitability. In recent years, driven in part by strong growth in steel consumption in the developing world, particularly in China, the global steel industry has experienced renewed interest in expansion of steel production capacity. China is the largest steel producing country in the world by a significant margin, with the balance between its domestic production and demand being an important factor in the determination of global steel prices. In addition, Chinese steel exports may have a significant impact on steel prices in markets outside of China, including Korea. The increased production capacity, combined with a decrease in demand due to the recent slowdown of the global economy, has resulted in production over-capacity in the global steel industry. Production over-capacity in the global steel industry may intensify if the slowdown of the global economy is prolonged or demand from developing countries that have experienced significant growth in the past several years does not meet the recent growth in production capacity. Production over-capacity in the global steel industry is likely to: • reduce export prices in Dollar terms of our principal products, which in turn may reduce our sales prices in Korea; • increase competition in the Korean market as foreign producers seek to export steel products to Korea as other markets experience a slowdown; • negatively affect demand for our products abroad and our ability to expand export sales; and • affect our ability to increase steel production in general. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully in this economic environment or that the prolonged slowdown of the global economy or production over-capacity will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 8 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully execute our diversification strategy. In part to prepare for the eventual maturation of the Korean steel market, our overall strategy includes securing new growth engines by diversifying into new businesses related to our steel operations that we believe will offer greater potential returns, such as liquefied natural gas (“LNG”) production, logistics and magnesium coil and sheet production, as well as entering into new businesses not related to our steel operations such as power generation, development of alternative energy, advanced materials and energy resources, information and technology related consulting services and wireless broadband Internet access service. From time to time, we may selectively acquire or invest in companies to pursue such diversification strategy. On September 20, 2010, we acquired a 68.15% interest in Daewoo International for Won 3.37 trillion. Daewoo International is a global trading company that primarily engages in trading of steel and raw materials as well as investing in energy and mineral development projects. It also manufactures and sells textiles, operates a department store in Korea, and holds a 24% interest in Kyobo Life Insurance, Korea’s third largest life insurance company in terms of market share in 2010. We submitted a letter of intent to Asiana Airlines Inc. and Daewoo E&C Co., Ltd. on March 4, 2011 and our Board of Directors decided on May 13, 2011 to participate in the final bid for the acquisition of a controlling stake in Korea Express Co., Ltd., a leading logistics company in Korea. Korea Express is being sold in an auction process and the preferred bidder is expected to be selected in the second quarter of 2011. The success of the overall diversification strategy will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the growth opportunities and anticipated synergies. The realization of the anticipated benefits depends on numerous factors, some of which are outside our control, including the availability of qualified personnel, establishment of new relationships and expansion of existing relationships with various customers and suppliers, procurement of necessary technology and know-how to engage in such businesses and access to investment capital at reasonable costs. The realization of the anticipated benefits may be impeded, delayed or reduced as a result of numerous factors, some of which are outside our control. These factors include: • difficulties in integrating the operations of the acquired business, including information and accounting systems, personnel, policies and procedures, and in reorganizing or reducing overlapping operations, marketing networks and administrative functions, which may require significant amounts of time, financial resources and management attention; • unforeseen contingent risks or latent liabilities relating to the acquisition that may become apparent in the future; • difficulties in managing a larger business; and • loss of key management personnel or customers. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our diversification strategy can be completed profitably or that the diversification efforts will not adversely affect our combined business, financial condition and results of operations. Consolidation and new market entrants in the global steel industry may increase competition. In recent years, there has been a trend toward industry consolidation among our competitors. For example, consolidation of Mittal and Arcelor in 2006 has created a company with approximately 10% of global steel production capacity. Competition from global steel manufacturers with expanded production capacity such as ArcelorMittal and new market entrants, especially from China and India, have resulted in significant price competition and may result in declining margins and reductions in revenue. Our larger competitors may use their resources, which may be greater than ours, against us in a variety of ways, including by making additional acquisitions, investing more aggressively in product development and capacity and displacing demand for our export products. 9 Table of Contents Competition from steel substitute materials may reduce demand for steel products. Steel competes with other natural and synthetic materials that may be used as steel substitutes, such as aluminum, cement, composites, glass, plastic and wood. Government regulatory initiatives mandating the use of such materials instead of steel, whether for environmental or other reasons, as well as the development of attractive alternative substitutes for steel products, may reduce demand for steel products and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Expansion of our production operations abroad is important to our long-term success, and our limited experience in the operation of our business outside Korea increases the risk that our international expansion efforts will not be successful. We conduct international trading and construction operations abroad, and our business relies on a global trading network comprised of overseas subsidiaries, branches and representative offices. Although many of our subsidiaries and overseas branches are located in developed countries, we also operate in numerous countries with developing economies. In addition, we intend to continue to expand our production operations internationally by carefully seeking out promising investment opportunities, particularly in China, India, and Southeast Asia, in part to prepare for the eventual maturation of the Korean steel market. We may enter into joint ventures with foreign steel producers that would enable us to rely on these businesses to conduct our operations, establish local networks and coordinate our sales and marketing efforts abroad. To the extent that we enter into these arrangements, our success will depend in part on the willingness of our partner companies to dedicate sufficient resources to their partnership with us. In other situations, we may decide to establish manufacturing facilities by ourselves instead of relying on partners. The demand and market acceptance for our products produced abroad are subject to a high level of uncertainty and are substantially dependent upon the market condition of the global steel industry. We cannot assure you that our international expansion plan will be profitable or that we can recoup the costs related to such investments. Expansion of our trading, construction and production operations abroad requires management attention and resources. In addition, we face additional risks associated with our expansion outside Korea, including: • challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; • higher costs associated with doing business internationally; • legal and regulatory restrictions, including foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside Korea; • longer payment cycles in some countries; • credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; • currency exchange risks; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • political and economic instability; and • seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in some countries. The March 11, 2011 natural disaster in Japan and its continuing effects could materially adversely affect our business. On March 11, 2011, Japan experienced a 9.0 moment magnitude scale undersea earthquake, which triggered tsunami waves that resulted in extensive and severe infrastructure damage throughout the eastern coast of Japan. The earthquake also caused a number of nuclear accidents, including an 10 Table of Contents ongoing major accident at the Fukushima nuclear power plant, making it the most costly natural disaster on record. Some of our Japanese suppliers of manufacturing equipment as well as our Japanese customers have temporarily suspended their operations due to the March 2011 natural disaster, and some continue to be affected by unreliable power, shipping constraints, problems with their suppliers, and the continuing effects. Although we believe that we have sufficient access to manufacturing equipment typically sourced from Japan to cover our short-term needs, we may experience shortages or delays in the supply of manufacturing equipment in the long-term. If we are not able to obtain such equipment from alternative sources on a timely basis or at commercially reasonable terms, or at all, it could adversely impact the production of our products. In addition, sales to our customers located in Japan represented 18.4% of our total export sales volume for steel products in 2008, 10.9% in 2009 and 11.0% in 2010, and demand from such customers may decrease as a result of the slowdown in their business operations due to the recent natural disaster and its continuing effects. We may from time to time engage in acquisitions for which we may be required to seek additional sources of capital. From time to time, we may selectively acquire or invest in companies or businesses that may complement our business. In order to finance these acquisitions, we intend to use cash on hand, funds from operations, issuances of equity and debt securities, and, if necessary, financings from banks and other sources as well as entering into consortiums with financial investors. However, no assurance can be given that we will obtain sufficient financing for such acquisitions or investments on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all. We also cannot assure you that such financings and related debt payment obligations will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. Further increases in, or new impositions of, anti-dumping or countervailing proceedings may have an adverse impact on our export sales. Currently, several of our products are subject to anti-dumping or countervailing proceedings, including in the United States and several emerging markets. Our products that have been subject to anti-dumping or countervailing proceedings in the aggregate have not accounted for a material portion of our total sales in recent years. However, there can be no assurance that increases in, or new impositions of, anti-dumping duties, countervailing duties, quotas or tariffs on our sales of products abroad may not have a material adverse impact on our exports in the future. See “