ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including the risk factors we have identified below. These factors are not necessarily listed in order of importance. We may amend or supplement the risk factors from time to time by other reports that we file with the SEC in the future. Our Industry is Subject to Intense Competitive Pressures We operate in markets that are highly competitive. We compete on the basis of price, quality, service and/or brand name across the industries and markets we serve. Competitive pressures could affect prices we charge our customers or demand for our products. We may not always be able to compete on price, particularly when compared to manufacturers with lower cost structures, especially those with more significant offshore facilities located where labor and other costs are lower than ours. Some of our competitors have substantially greater sales, financial and manufacturing resources and may have greater access to capital than Littelfuse. As other companies enter our markets or develop new products, competition may intensify further. Our failure to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We granted a license covering the MINI(R) fuse technology to Pacific Engineering Company, Ltd., a Japanese manufacturer that produces and distributes the Company's patented automotive fuses to Asian-based automotive OEMs and wire harness manufacturers. This license expires on April 16, 2006. We May be Unable to Manufacture and Deliver Products in a Manner that is Responsive to Our Customers' Needs The end markets for our products are characterized by technological change, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, changes in customer requirements and emerging industry standards. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable before we can recover any or all of our research, development and commercialization expenses on capital investments. Furthermore, the life cycles of our products may change and are difficult to estimate. Our future success will depend upon our ability to manufacture and deliver products in a manner that is responsive to our customers' needs. We will need to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements on a timely basis that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards and address increasingly sophisticated requirements of our customers. We invest heavily in research and development without knowing that we will recover these costs. Our competitors may develop products or technologies that will render our products non-competitive or obsolete. If we cannot develop and market new products or product enhancements in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our Business May be Interrupted by Labor Disputes or Other Interruptions of Supplies A work stoppage could occur at certain of our facilities, most likely as a result of disputes under existing collective bargaining agreements with labor unions, or in connection with negotiations of new collective bargaining agreements. In addition, we may experience a shortage of supplies for various reasons, such as financial distress, work stoppages, natural disasters or production difficulties that may affect one of our suppliers. A significant work stoppage, or an interruption or shortage of supplies for any reason, if protracted, could substantially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Revenues May Vary Significantly from Period to Period Our revenues may vary significantly from one accounting period to another due to a variety of factors. Some of the principal factors that contribute to these fluctuations may be: changes in our customers' buying decisions; changes in demand for our products; our product mix; our effectiveness in managing manufacturing processes; costs and timing of our component purchases; the effectiveness of our inventory control; the degree to which we are able to utilize our available manufacturing capacity; our ability to meet delivery schedules; general economic and industry conditions; and local conditions and events that may affect our production volumes, such as labor conditions and political instability. 7 Our Ability to Manage Currency or Commodity Price Fluctuations or Shortages is Limited As a resource-intensive manufacturing operation, we are exposed to a variety of market and asset risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. We have multiple sources of supply for each of our major commodity requirements. However, significant shortages that disrupt the supply of raw materials or price increases could affect prices we charge our customers, our product costs, and the competitive position of our products and services. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects on our results. Nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates cannot always be predicted. In addition, because of intense price competition and our high level of fixed costs, we may not be able to address such changes even if they are foreseeable. Substantial changes in these rates and prices could have a substantial adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For additional discussion of interest rate, currency or commodity price risk, see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risks." The Bankruptcy or Insolvency of a Major Customer Could Adversely Affect Us Certain of our major customers, such as those in the automotive industry, are suffering financial hardships. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major customer could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major U.S. auto manufacturer likely could lead to substantial disruptions in the automotive supply base, which likely would have a substantial adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Operations and Supply Sources Located Outside the United States, Particularly in Emerging Markets, Are Subject to Increased Risks Our operating activities outside the United States contribute significantly to our revenues and earnings. Serving a global customer base and remaining competitive in the global market place may require that we place more production in countries other than the United States, including emerging markets, to capitalize on market opportunities and maintain a cost-efficient structure. In addition, we source a significant amount of raw materials and other components from third-party suppliers or joint-venture operations in low-cost countries. Our operations outside the United States could be disrupted by a natural disaster, labor strike, war, political unrest, terrorist activity or public health concerns. Operations outside the United States are also subject to certain regulatory and economic uncertainties including trade barriers and restrictions on the exchange and fluctuations of currency. As a result, we may experience disruptions at these operations that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Engage in Acquisitions and May Encounter Difficulties in Integrating These Businesses We are a company that, from time to time, seeks to grow through strategic acquisitions. We have in the past acquired a number of businesses or companies and additional product lines and assets. We intend to continue to expand and diversify our operations with additional acquisitions. The success of these transactions depends on our ability to integrate the assets and personnel acquired in these transactions. We may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations and may not realize the degree or timing of the benefits that we anticipated from an acquisition. We Have Closed, Combined, Sold or Disposed of Certain Subsidiaries, Divisions or Assets, Which in the Past Has Reduced Our Sales Volume and Resulted in Restructuring Costs We are a company that, from time to time, seeks to optimize its manufacturing capabilities and efficiencies through restructurings, consolidations, plant closings or asset sales. We may make further specific determinations to consolidate, close or sell additional facilities. Possible adverse consequences related to such actions may include various accounting charges such as for idle capacity, disposition costs, severance costs, impairments of goodwill and possibly an immediate loss of revenues, and other items in addition to normal or attendant risks and uncertainties. We may be unsuccessful in any of our current or future efforts to restructure or consolidate our business. Our plans to minimize or eliminate any loss of revenues during restructuring or consolidation may not be achieved. These activities may have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition or results of operations. Environmental Liabilities Could Adversely Impact Our Financial Position Federal, state and local laws and regulations impose various restrictions and controls on the discharge of materials, chemicals and gases used in our manufacturing processes or in our finished goods. These environmental regulations have required us to expend a portion of our resources and capital on relevant compliance programs. Under other laws and regulations, we could be held financially responsible for remedial measures if our current or former properties are contaminated or if we send waste to a landfill or recycling facility that becomes contaminated, even if we did not cause the contamination. We may be subject to additional common law claims if we release substances that damage or harm third parties. In addition, future changes in environmental laws or regulations may 8 require additional investments in capital equipment or the implementation of additional compliance programs in the future. Any failure to comply with new or existing environmental laws or regulations could subject us to significant liabilities and could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In the conduct of our manufacturing operations, we have handled and do handle materials that are considered hazardous, toxic or volatile under federal, state and local laws. The risk of accidental release of such materials cannot be completely eliminated. In addition, we operate or own facilities located on or near real property that was formerly owned and operated by others. Certain of these properties were used in ways that involved hazardous materials. Contaminants may migrate from or within or through property. These releases or migrations may give rise to claims. Where third parties are responsible for contamination, the third parties may not have funds, or not make funds available when needed, to pay remediation costs imposed upon us under environmental laws and regulations. We have an accrual related to coal mine shafts. The accrual is based on an engineering study estimating the present value of the cost of future occurrences related to the coal mine shafts (such as a shaft collapse) and the probability of such occurrences. Actual amounts incurred could differ from the amount accrued. We Derive a Substantial Portion of Our Revenues from Customers in the Automotive, Computer and Communications Industries, and We are Susceptible to Trends and Factors Affecting Those Industries as Well as the Success of Our Customers' Products Net sales to the automotive, computer and communications industries represent a substantial portion of our revenues. Factors negatively affecting these industries and the demand for products also negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any adverse occurrence, including industry slowdown, recession, political instability, costly or constraining regulations, armed hostilities, terrorism, excessive inflation, prolonged disruptions in one or more of our customers' production schedules or labor disturbances, that results in significant decline in the volume of sales in these industries, or in an overall downturn in the business and operations of our customers in these industries, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. For example, the automotive industry is highly cyclical in nature and sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, consumer preferences and interest rates. In addition, the global automotive industry has overall manufacturing capacity far exceeding demand. To the extent that demand for certain of our customers' products decline, the demand for our products may decline. Reduced demand relating to general economic conditions, consumer preferences, interest rates or industry over capacity may have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition or results of operations. Inability to Maintain Access to Capital Markets May Adversely Affect Our Business and Financial Results Our ability to invest in our businesses, make strategic acquisitions and refinance maturing debt obligations may require access to the capital markets and sufficient bank credit lines to support short-term borrowings. If we are unable to access the capital markets or bank credit facilities, we could experience a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Fixed Costs May Reduce Operating Results if Our Sales Fall Below Expectations Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations for future sales. Many of our expenses, particularly those relating to capital equipment and manufacturing overhead, are relatively fixed. We might be unable to reduce spending quickly enough to compensate for reductions in sales. Accordingly, shortfalls in sales could materially and adversely affect our operating results. The Volatility of Our Stock Price Could Affect the Value of an Investment in Our Stock and Our Future Financial Position The market price of our stock has fluctuated widely. Between January 2, 2005 and December 31, 2005, the closing sale price of our common stock ranged between a low of $21.44 and a high of $33.59, experiencing greater volatility over that time than most of the market did. The volatility of our stock price may be related to any number of factors, such as general economic conditions, industry conditions, analysts' expectations concerning our results of operations, or the volatility of our revenues as discussed above under "--Our Revenues May Vary Significantly from Period to Period." The historic market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices. We may not be able to sustain or increase the value of our common stock. Declines in the market price of our stock could adversely affect our ability to retain personnel with stock incentives, to acquire businesses or assets in exchange for stock and/or to conduct future financing activities with or involving our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 9 