Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider the following risks carefully in evaluating us and our business before making an investment decision. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If that happens, the trading price of our common shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks related to our business We depend on government contracts for a significant portion of our revenues. We are a supplier, either directly or as a subcontractor, to the U.S. government and its agencies, principally the U.S. Air Force. Ten percent of revenue for 2010, 28% of revenue for 2009 and 79% of revenue for 2008 was derived from prime government contract sales. In addition, government subcontracts accounted for 73% of our revenue in 2010, 43% of our revenue in 2009 and 30% of our revenue in 2008. We depend on government contracts for a significant portion of our business. If we are suspended or barred from contracting with the U.S. government, if our reputation or relationship with individual federal agencies were impaired, or if the government otherwise ceased doing business with us or significantly decreased the amount of business it does with us, our business, prospects, financial cond ition and operating results would be materially adversely affected. Page 9 We face risks relating to government contracts. The funding of U.S. Government programs is subject to congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. For many programs, Congress appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may extend over several fiscal years. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. We cannot predict the extent to which total funding and/or funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the 2011 and subsequent budgets ultimately approved by Congress or be included in the scope of separate supplemental appropriations. The impact, severity and duration of the current U.S. economic situation, the sweeping economic plans adopted by the U.S. Government, and pressures on the federal budget could also adversely affect the total funding and/or funding for individual programs. In the event that appropriations for any of our programs becomes unavailable, or is reduced or delayed, our contract or subcontract under such program may be terminated or adjusted by the U.S. Government, which could have a material adverse effect on our future sales under such program, and on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. We also cannot predict the impact of potential changes in priorities due to military transformation and planning and/or the nature of war-related activity on existing, follow-on or replacement programs. A shift of government priorities to programs in which we do not participate and/or reductions in funding for or the termination of programs in which we do participate, unless offset by other programs and opportunities, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. In addition, the U.S. Government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, without prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. In the event of termination for the U.S. Government’s convenience, contractors are generally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. Termination by the U.S. Government of a contract for convenience could also result in the cancellation of future work on that program. Termination by the U.S. Government of a contract due to our default could require us to pay for re-procurement costs in excess of the original contract price, net of the value of work accepted from the original co ntract. Termination of a contract due to our default may expose us to liability and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for contracts. We have risks associated with competing in the bidding process for U.S. government contracts. We obtain many of our U.S. government contracts through a competitive bidding process. In the bidding process, we face the following risks: · We must bid on programs in advance of their completion, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties or cost overruns; · We must devote substantial time and effort to prepare bids and proposals for competitively awarded contracts that may not be awarded to us; and · Awarded contracts may not generate sales sufficient to result in profitability. Page 10 We are subject to strict governmental regulations relating to the environment, which could result in fines and remediation expense in the event of non-compliance. We are required to comply with extensive and frequently changing environmental regulations at the federal, state and local levels. Among other things, these regulatory bodies impose restrictions to control air, soil and water pollution, to protect against occupational exposure to chemicals, including health and safety risks, and to require notification or reporting of the storage, use and release of certain hazardous substances into the environment. This extensive regulatory framework imposes significant compliance burdens and risks on us. In addition, these regulations may impose liability for the cost of removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances released on or in our facilities without regard to whether we knew of, or caused, the release of such substances. Furthermore, we are required to provide a place of employment that is free from recognized and preventable hazards that are likely to cause serious physical harm to employees, provide notice to employees regarding the presence of hazardous chemicals and to train employees in the use of such substances. Our operations require the use of a limited amount of chemicals and other materials for painting and cleaning that are classified under applicable laws as hazardous chemicals and substances. If we are found not to be in compliance with any of these rules, regulations or permits, we may be subject to fines, remediation expenses and the obligation to change our business practice, any of which could result in substantial costs that would adversely impact our business operations and financial condition. We may be subject to fines and disqualification for non-compliance with Federal Aviation Administration regulations. We are subject to regulation by the Federal Aviation Administration under the provisions of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended. The FAA prescribes standards and licensing requirements for aircraft and aircraft components. We are subject to inspections by the FAA and may be subjected to fines and other penalties (including orders to cease production) for noncompliance with FAA regulations. Our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in the termination of or our disqualification from some of our contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. If our subcontractors or suppliers fail to perform their contractual obligations, our prime contract performance and our ability to obtain future business could be materially and adversely impacted. Many of our contracts involve subcontracts with other companies upon which we rely to perform a portion of the services that we must provide to our customers. There is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontract, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, or our hiring of personnel of a subcontractor. A failure by one or more of our subcontractors to satisfactorily provide on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services may materially and adversely impact our ability to perform our obligations as the prime contractor. Subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in a custom er eliminating our ability to progress bill or terminating our contract for default. A prohibition on progress billing may have an adverse effect upon our cash flow and profitability and a default termination could expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. In addition, a delay in our ability to obtain components and equipment parts from our suppliers may affect our ability to meet our customers’ needs and may have an adverse effect upon our profitability. Due to fixed contract pricing, increasing contract costs exposes us to reduced profitability and the potential loss of future business. Operating margin is adversely affected when contract costs that cannot be billed to customers are incurred. This cost growth can occur if estimates to complete increase due to technical challenges or if initial estimates used for calculating the contract price were incorrect. The cost estimation process requires significant judgment and expertise. Reasons for cost growth may include unavailability and productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the effect of change orders, the availability of materials, the effect of any delays in performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer, natural disasters, and the inability to recover any claims included in the estimates to complete. A significant change in cost estimates on one or more programs could have a material effect o n the company’s consolidated financial position or results of operations. Page 11 We use estimates when accounting for contracts. Changes in estimates could affect our profitability and our overall financial position. We recognize revenue from our contracts over the contractual period under the percentage-of-completion (POC) method of accounting. Under the POC method of accounting, sales and gross profit are recognized as work is performed based on the relationship between actual costs incurred and total estimated costs at the completion of the contract. Recognized revenues that will not be billed under the terms of the contract until a later date are recorded as an asset captioned “Costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts.” Contracts where billings to date have exceeded recognized revenues are recorded as a liability captioned “Billings in excess of costs and estimated earnings on uncompleted contracts.” Changes to the original estimates may be re quired during the life of the contract. Estimates are reviewed monthly and the effect of any change in the estimated gross margin percentage for a contract is reflected in the financial statements in the period the change becomes known. The use of the POC method of accounting involves considerable use of estimates in determining revenues, costs and profits and in assigning the amounts to accounting periods. As a result, there can be a significant disparity between earnings (both for accounting and taxes) as reported and actual cash received by us during any reporting period. We continually evaluate all of the issues related to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent with the application of the POC method of accounting; however, one cannot be assured that our estimates will be accurate. If our estimates are not accurate or a contract is terminated, we will be forced to adjust revenue in later periods. Furthermore, even if our estimate s are accurate, we may have a shortfall in our cash flow and we may need to borrow money to pay taxes until the reported earnings materialize to actual cash receipts. If the contracts associated with our backlog were terminated, our financial condition would be adversely affected. The maximum contract value specified under each government contract that we enter into is not necessarily indicative of the revenues that we will realize under that contract. Because we may not receive the full amount we expect under a contract, we may not accurately estimate our backlog because the earnings of revenues on programs included in backlog may never occur or may change. Cancellations of pending contracts or terminations or reductions of contracts in progress could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. As of December 31, 2010, our backlog was approximately $290 million, of which 15% was funded and 85% was unfunded. We may be unable to attract and retain personnel who are key to our operations. Our success, among other things, is dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified senior officers and engineers. Competition for key personnel is intense. Our ability to attract and retain senior officers and experienced, top rate engineers is dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions and compensation packages offered by companies competing for the same talent. The inability to hire and retain these persons may adversely affect our production operations and other aspects of our business. The current global credit environment could make it more difficult for us to access additional financing which is essential for funding the operations and growth of our business. Our ability to fund our operations and contractual commitments and refinance maturing debt obligations requires access to sufficient bank credit lines. The current global economic environment has resulted in a deterioration of credit markets, making borrowing more difficult for most businesses. There is no indication when this situation will abate. If in the future we are unable to obtain sufficient credit lines on terms acceptable to us, the continued development or growth of our business and our financial results may be materially adversely affected. Page 12 We are subject to the cyclical nature of the commercial aerospace industry, and any future downturn in the commercial aerospace industry or general economic conditions could adversely impact the demand for our products. Our business may be affected by certain characteristics and trends of the commercial aerospace industry or general economic conditions that affect our customers, such as fluctuations in the aerospace industry’s business cycle, varying fuel and labor costs, intense price competition and regulatory scrutiny, certain trends, including a possible decrease in aviation activity and a decrease in outsourcing by aircraft manufacturers or the failure of projected market growth to materialize or continue. In the event that these characteristics and trends adversely affect customers in the commercial aerospace industry, they may reduce the overall demand for our products. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Our management determined that as of December 31, 2010, our internal control over financial reporting was effective based on criteria created by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”) set forth in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (1992). However, if material weaknesses are identified in our internal control over financial reporting in the future, our management will be unable to report favorably as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and/or our disclosure controls and procedures, and we could be required to implement remedial measures. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Such remedial measures could be expensive and time consuming and could potentially cause investors to lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price and potentially subject us to litigation. We incur risk associated with new programs New programs with new technologies typically carry risks associated with design changes, development of new production tools, increased capital and funding commitments, ability to meet customer specifications, delivery schedules and unique contractual requirements, supplier performance, ability of the customer to meet its contractual obligations to us, and our ability to accurately estimate costs associated with such programs. In addition, any new program may not generate sufficient demand or may experience technological problems or significant delays in the regulatory or other certification or manufacturing and delivery schedule. If we were unable to perform our obligations under new programs to the customer’s satisfaction, if we were unable to manufacture products at our estimated costs, or if a new program in which we had made a significant investment was t erminated or experienced weak demand, delays or technological problems, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. This risk includes the potential for default, quality problems, or inability to meet weight requirements, as well as our inability to negotiate final pricing for program changes, and could result in low margin or forward loss contracts, and the risk of having to write-off costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts if it were deemed to be unrecoverable over the life of the program. In addition, beginning new work on existing programs also carries risk associated with the transfer of technology, knowledge and tooling. In order to perform on new programs we may be required to expend up-front costs which may not have been negotiated in our selling price. Additionally, we may have made margin assumptions related to those costs, that in the case of significant program delays and/or program cancellations, or if we are not successful in negotiating favorable margin on scope changes, could cause us to bear impairment charges which may be material, for costs that are not recoverable. Such charges and the loss of up-front costs could have a material impact on our liquidity. Page 13 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable 