RISK FACTORS The Company may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements. Written forward-looking statements may appear in this document and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in press releases, in reports to shareholders, on the Company’s website, and other documents. While these forward-looking statements, and any assumptions upon which they are based, are made in good faith and reflect our current judgment regarding the direction of our business, actual results will almost always vary, sometimes materially, from any estimates, predictions, projections, assumptions or other future performance suggested herein. Such estimates, projections or other forward looking estimates involve various risks and uncertainties as outlined below. We caution the reader that important factors in some cases have affected and could materially affect actual results in the future, and cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed in any estimates, projections or other forward-looking statements. Prospective investors should consider carefully the risk factors set out below. The Company was subject to a number of business and financial risks including: agricultural risk such as weather and disease, commodity price risk for ginseng bulk root, exchange risk (predominantly United States and Hong Kong dollar related), the lengthy growing cycle for ginseng, interest rate risk, credit risk and the concentration of customers, and future need for financing. Going Concern The Company did not plant new crops in the previous three years and is expecting to cease operations in their current form after completing the sale of the remaining inventory from the 2011 harvest in 2012. After completion of such sales, the Company will not have a recurring source of revenue, other than interest income on its cash deposits. The Company is currently in a position to acquire and manage an operating business with growth opportunities, although the Company has not yet received an opportunity attractive enough to seriously consider. As such, there is substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue indefinitely as a going concern. However the Company’s financial statements were prepared on a going concern basis which assumes that the Company will continue in operation for the foreseeable future and will be able to realize its assets and discharge its liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. Should a liquidation plan be approved, the Company will adopt liquidation based accounting to prepare the Company's financial statements. The impact of adopting a liquidation basis accounting to prepare the financial statements is limited as the Company has stated the significant assets and liabilities at amounts which are not expected to significantly differ from their net realizable value. Agricultural Risks The Company’s primary business has been the cultivation and marketing of North American ginseng. Ginseng farming is subject to agricultural risks such as weather and disease and risks of low yields, poor crop quality, and crop failure. The Company has harvested all of its ginseng crops and thus all of its agricultural risks have now been alleviated. Product Pricing The marketing of bulk and graded North American ginseng in world markets is subject to pricing risks. The 5 price of North American ginseng may be affected by factors such as the size, shape, color, taste, and quality of the harvest for the Company and the industry at large, as well as other factors in any given year. These are factors that the Company may not be able to control in the short term. However, the Company has entered into contracts with various buyers to sell over 95% of the inventory from the Company’s final harvest so this risk has been minimized. Availability of Suitable Land Generally, the Company used farm land only for one ginseng crop as it is generally believed that ginseng depletes the soil of nutrients necessary for a second successful ginseng crop. Since the Company does not plan to make any additional plantings, the availability of suitable farm land will no longer have an effect on the Company's business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Competition The ginseng industry is quite competitive as the Company competes with numerous other long established ginseng growers. Most of these competitors are managed by private companies or individuals who have smaller acres under cultivation and harvest fewer pounds of ginseng but also have lower overhead costs compared to the Company. A high amount of ginseng harvested by the competition can adversely affect the price that the Company can achieve for its ginseng. However, since the Company has already entered into contracts with various buyers to sell over 95% of the inventory from the Company’s final harvest, this risk has been minimized. Credit Risk and the Concentration of Customers The Company is exposed to credit risk on accounts receivable from customers. In order to manage its credit risk, the Company carefully monitors credit terms, and investigates credit history. Payments or deposits are usually received before shipments of inventory to the customer and credit is typically granted only to customers with established relationships or those customers who have been subject to a credit review and approval by management. When such relationships have not been established or credit reviews have not been acceptable, letters of credit may be used to secure such payment or revenues may not be recognized until collection. The Company’s product is typically sold to major ginseng brokers in Hong Kong or Canada and a limited number of smaller direct customers. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company had sales of approximately 89% to its top four customers, approximately 89% to its top four customers, and approximately 78% to its top three customers in each year, respectively. The Company believes that a limited number of customers will continue to represent a significant portion of its total revenue. Although the Company does not consider itself economically dependent upon any single customer or combination of customers due to the existence of other potential brokers capable of purchasing the Company’s supply, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain its current significant customers or secure significant new customers on similar terms and this may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company had sales of approximately 39%, 57% and 79% to customers in the Hong Kong and China geographic region. Although the Company sold a smaller proportion of its inventory to customers in Hong Kong and China in 2011, the Company believes that the majority of its Canadian customers will resell the product in Hong Kong and China. Any adverse change in the demand for ginseng in Hong Kong and China may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 6 Risks Associated with International Operations The Company operates in international markets and conducts business in Canada (bulk root farming operations and certain bulk root sales) as well as Hong Kong and China (bulk root sales centre in Asia). There are a number of risks inherent in the Company’s international business activities, including changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, costs and risks associated with foreign markets, differing culture and business practices, potentially adverse tax consequences, the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, war, insurrection, terrorism and other political risks and factors beyond the Company’s control. Exchange risks are also present as currencies may fluctuate at different rates depending on economic, political and other factors. There can be no assurance that adverse changes in the above noted factors will not materially affect the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Foreign Exchange The Company transacts primarily in US$, CDN$ and Hong Kong dollar (“HK$”) denominations. The Hong Kong Monetary Authority has set up a linked exchange rate system in which the HK$ is limited to a trading range of HK$7.75 – HK$7.85 against the US$. The Company monitors its exposure to foreign exchange risk and balances its foreign currency holdings to reduce exposure to any one currency by engaging in foreign exchange contracts and by repatriating any excess funds. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly the weakening or strengthening of the US$ against the CDN$ could have a significant impact on our results of operations. Market for Common Shares; Potential Volatility of Stock Price The trading prices of the common shares have been subject to wide fluctuations in recent years. There can be no assurance that the market price of the common shares will not significantly fluctuate from its current level. Furthermore, the low average trading volumes for the Company’s common shares may impact the liquidity of the shares or the ultimate price at which they can be sold. Directors, Officers and Key Employees The success of the Company is currently largely dependent on the performance of its officers and key senior management. The loss of the services of these persons will have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s business and prospects. The Company has offered retention bonuses to its officers and key senior management in an effort to ensure that they will stay with the Company through the expected final harvest in 2011 and the sale of inventory from that harvest in 2012. There is no assurance the Company can maintain the services of its officers and key senior management or other qualified personnel required to operate its business. Failure to do so could have a material adverse affect on the Company. The Company has not purchased any “key-man” insurance with respect to any of its directors or officers to the date hereof. The loss of any key officer or employee of the Company could have an adverse impact on the Company, its business and its financial position. 