ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including the risk factors we have identified below. These factors are not necessarily listed in order of importance. We may amend or supplement the risk factors from time to time by other reports that we file with the SEC in the future. Our industry is subject to intense competitive pressures. We operate in markets that are highly competitive. We compete on the basis of price, quality, service and/or brand name across the industries and markets we serve. Competitive pressures could affect the prices we are able to charge our customers or the demand for our products. We may not always be able to compete on price, particularly when compared to manufacturers with lower cost structures. Some of our competitors have substantially greater sales, financial and manufacturing resources and may have greater access to capital than Littelfuse. As other companies enter our markets or develop new products, competition may further intensify. Our failure to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to manufacture and deliver products in a manner that is responsive to our customers’ needs. The end markets for our products are characterized by technological change, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, changes in customer requirements and emerging industry standards. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable before we can recover any or all of our research, development and commercialization expenses on capital investments. Furthermore, the life cycles of our products may change and are difficult to estimate. Our future success will depend upon our ability to manufacture and deliver products in a manner that is responsive to our customers’ needs. We will need to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements on a timely basis that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards and address increasingly sophisticated requirements of our customers. We invest heavily in research and development without knowing that we will recover these costs. Our competitors may develop products or technologies that will render our products non-competitive or obsolete. If we cannot develop and market new products or product enhancements in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our business may be interrupted by labor disputes or other interruptions of supplies. A work stoppage could occur at certain of our facilities, most likely as a result of disputes under collective bargaining agreements or in connection with negotiations of new collective bargaining agreements. In addition, we may experience a shortage of supplies for various reasons, such as financial distress, work stoppages, natural disasters or production difficulties that may affect one of our suppliers. A significant work stoppage, or an interruption or shortage of supplies for any reason, if protracted, could substantially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The transfer of our manufacturing operations and changes in our distribution model could disrupt operations for a limited time. 12 Our revenues may vary significantly from period to period. Our revenues may vary significantly from one accounting period to another due to a variety of factors including: · changes in our customers’ buying decisions; · changes in demand for our products; · changes in our distributor inventory stocking; · our product mix; · our effectiveness in managing manufacturing processes; · costs and timing of our component purchases; · the effectiveness of our inventory control; · the degree to which we are able to utilize our available manufacturing capacity; · our ability to meet delivery schedules; · general economic and industry conditions; · local conditions and events that may affect our production volumes, such as labor conditions and political instability; and · seasonality of certain product lines. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major customer could adversely affect us. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major customer could result in lower sales revenue and cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major U.S. auto manufacturer or significant supplier likely could lead to substantial disruptions in the automotive supply base, resulting in lower demand for our products, which likely would cause a decrease in sales revenue and have a substantial adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to manage currency or commodity price fluctuations or shortages is limited. As a resource-intensive manufacturing operation, we are exposed to a variety of market and asset risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. We have multiple sources of supply for the majority of our commodity requirements. However, significant shortages that disrupt the supply of raw materials or result in price increases could affect prices we charge our customers, our product costs and the competitive position of our products and services. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects on our results. Nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates cannot always be predicted. In addition, because of intense price competition and our high level of fixed costs, we may not be able to address such changes even if they are foreseeable. Substantial changes in these rates and prices could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For additional discussion of interest rate, currency or commodity price risk, see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risks.” Operations and supply sources located outside the United States, particularly in emerging markets, are subject to greater risks. Our operating activities outside the United States contribute significantly to our revenues and earnings. Serving a global customer base and remaining competitive in the global marketplace requires the company to place our production in countries outside the United States, including emerging markets, to capitalize on market opportunities and maintain a cost-efficient structure. In addition, we source a significant amount of raw materials and other components from third-party suppliers in low-cost countries. Our international operating activities are subject to a number of risks generally associated with international operations, including risks relating to the following: · general economic conditions; 13 · currency fluctuations and exchange restrictions; · import and export duties and restrictions; · the imposition of tariffs and other import or export barriers; · compliance with regulations governing import and export activities; · current and changing regulatory requirements; · political and economic instability; · potentially adverse income tax consequences; · transportation delays and interruptions; · labor unrest; · natural disasters; · terrorist activities; · public health concerns; · difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations; and · limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We engage in acquisitions and may encounter difficulties in integrating these businesses. We are a company that, from time to time, seeks to grow through strategic acquisitions. We have in the past acquired a number of businesses or companies and additional product lines and assets. We intend to continue to expand and diversify our operations with additional acquisitions. The success of these transactions depends on our ability to integrate the assets and personnel acquired in these acquisitions. We may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations and may not realize the degree or timing of the benefits that we anticipated from an acquisition. Environmental liabilities could adversely impact our financial position. Federal, state and local laws and regulations impose various restrictions and controls on the discharge of materials, chemicals and gases used in our manufacturing processes or in our finished goods. These environmental regulations have required us to expend a portion of our resources and capital on relevant compliance programs. Under these laws and regulations, we could be held financially responsible for remedial measures if our current or former properties are contaminated or if we send waste to a landfill or recycling facility that becomes contaminated, even if we did not cause the contamination. We may be subject to additional common law claims if we release substances that damage or harm third parties. In addition, future changes in environmental laws or regulations may require additional investments in capital equipment or the implementation of additional compliance programs. Any failure to comply with new or existing environmental laws or regulations could subject us to significant liabilities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In the conduct of our manufacturing operations, we have handled and do handle materials that are considered hazardous, toxic or volatile under federal, state and local laws. The risk of accidental release of such materials cannot be completely eliminated. In addition, we operate or own facilities located on or near real property that was formerly owned and operated by others. Certain of these properties were used in ways that involved hazardous materials. Contaminants may migrate from, within or through these properties. These releases or migrations may give rise to claims. Where third parties are responsible for contamination, the third parties may not have funds, or not make funds available when needed, to pay remediation costs imposed upon us under environmental laws and regulations. 14 The company is responsible for the maintenance of discontinued coal mining operations in Germany. The risk of environmental remediation exists and the company is in the process of remediating the mines considered to be the most at risk. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers in the automotive, consumer electronics and communications industries, and we are susceptible to trends and factors affecting those industries as well as the success of our customers’ products. Net sales to the automotive, consumer electronics and communications industries represent a substantial portion of our revenues. Factors negatively affecting these industries and the demand for products also negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any adverse occurrence, including industry slowdown, recession, political instability, costly or constraining regulations, armed hostilities, terrorism, excessive inflation, prolonged disruptions in one or more of our customers’ production schedules or labor disturbances, that results in significant decline in the volume of sales in these industries, or in an overall downturn in the business and operations of our customers in these industries, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. For example, the automotive industry as well as the consumer electronics market is highly cyclical in nature and sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, consumer preferences and interest rates. In addition, the global automotive and electronic industries have overall manufacturing capacity far exceeding demand. To the extent that demand for certain of our customers’ products declines, the demand for our products may decline. Reduced demand relating to general economic conditions, consumer preferences, interest rates or industry over-capacity may have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition or results of operations. The inability to maintain access to capital markets may adversely affect our business and financial results. Our ability to invest in our businesses, make strategic acquisitions and refinance maturing debt obligations may require access to the capital markets and sufficient bank credit lines to support short-term borrowings. If we are unable to access the capital markets or bank credit facilities, we could experience a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Fixed costs may reduce operating results if our sales fall below expectations. Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations for future sales. Many of our expenses, particularly those relating to capital equipment and manufacturing overhead, are relatively fixed. We might be unable to reduce spending quickly enough to compensate for reductions in sales. Accordingly, shortfalls in sales could materially and adversely affect our operating results. The volatility of our stock price could affect the value of an investment in our stock and our future financial position. The market price of our stock has fluctuated widely. Between January 1, 2012 and December 29, 2012, the closing sale price of our common stock ranged between a low of $43.81 and a high of $64.86, experiencing greater volatility over that time than the broader markets. The volatility of our stock price may be related to any number of factors, such as general economic conditions, industry conditions, analysts’ expectations concerning our results of operations, or the volatility of our revenues as discussed above under “Our Revenues May Vary Significantly from Period to Period.” The historic market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices. We may not be able to sustain or increase the value of our common stock. Declines in the market price of our stock could adversely affect our ability to retain personnel with stock incentives, to acquire businesses or assets in exchange for stock and/or to conduct future financing activities with or involving our common stock. 15 Customer demands and new regulations related to conflict-free minerals may force us to incur additional expenses. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act requires disclosure of use of “conflict” minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries and efforts to prevent the use of such minerals. In the semiconductor industry, these minerals are most commonly found in metals. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering “conflict free” metals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary metals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Also, we may face challenges with our customers and suppliers if we are unable to sufficiently verify that the metals used in our products are “conflict free.” Our Information Technology (“IT”) systems could be breached. We face certain security threats relating to the confidentiality and integrity of our IT systems. Despite implementation of security measures, our IT systems may be vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, cyber attacks and other unauthorized access and these security breaches could result in a disruption to our operations. A material network breach of our IT systems could involve the theft of intellectual property or customer data which may be used by competitors. To the extent that any security breach results in a loss or damage to data, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, it could cause damage to our reputation, affect our customer relations, lead to claims against us, increase our costs to protect against future damage and could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial position. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 