Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider the following risks carefully in evaluating us and our business before making an investment decision. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If that happens, the trading price of our common shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks related to our business We depend on government contracts for most of our revenues. We are a supplier, either directly or as a subcontractor, to the U.S. government and its agencies, principally the U.S. Air Force. 93% of revenue for 2006, 96% of revenue for 2005 and 99% of our revenue for 2004 were derived from government contract sales. Two of our contracts, for the T-38 ‘‘Talon’’ and the C-5, accounted for 27% and 32% of our revenue for 2006, respectively. We depend on these government contracts for most of our business. If we are suspended or barred from contracting with the U.S. government, if our reputation or relationship with individual federal agencies were impaired, or if the government otherwise ceased doing business with us or significantly decreased the amount of business it d oes with us, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results would be materially adversely affected. We face risks relating to government contracts. There are inherent risks in contracting with the U.S. government, including risks that are peculiar to the defense industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. All contracts with the U.S. government contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that give the government rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts, including rights that allow the government to: • terminate contracts for convenience in whole or in part at any time; • reduce or modify contracts or subcontracts if its requirements or budgetary constraints change; • cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable; • adjust contract costs and fees on the basis of audits completed by its agencies; • claim rights in products and systems produced by us; • suspend or bar us from doing business with U.S. government; and • control or prohibit the export of our products. If the U.S. government terminates a contract for convenience, we may recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the termination. If the government terminates a contract for default, we may not recover even those amounts, and instead may be liable for excess costs incurred by the government in procuring undelivered items and services from another source. We have risks associated with competing in the bidding process for U.S. government contracts. We obtain many of our U.S. government contracts through a competitive bidding process. In the bidding process, we face the following risks: • We must bid on programs in advance of their completion, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties or cost overruns; • We must devote substantial time and effort to prepare bids and proposals for competitively awarded contracts that may not be awarded to us; and 7 Table of Contents • Awarded contracts may not generate sales sufficient to result in profitability. We are subject to strict governmental regulations relating to the environment, which could result in fines and remediation expense in the event of non-compliance. We are required to comply with extensive and frequently changing environmental regulations at the federal, state and local levels. Among other things, these regulatory bodies impose restrictions to control air, soil and water pollution, to protect against occupational exposure to chemicals, including health and safety risks, and to require notification or reporting of the storage, use and release of certain hazardous substances into the environment. This extensive regulatory framework imposes significant compliance burdens and risks on us. In addition, these regulations may impose liability for the cost of removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances released on or in our facilities without regard to whether we knew of, or caused, the release of such substances. Furthermore, we are required to provide a place of employment that is free from recognized and preventable hazards that are likely to cause serious physical harm to employees, provide notice to employees regarding the presence of hazardous chemicals and to train employees in the use of such substances. Our operations require the use of a limited amount of chemicals and other materials for painting and cleaning that are classified under applicable laws as hazardous chemicals and substances. If we are found not to be in compliance with any of these rules, regulations or permits, we may be subject to fines, remediation expenses and the obligation to change our business practice, any of which could result in substantial costs that would adversely impact our business operations and financial condition. We may be subject to fines and disqualification for non-compliance with Federal Aviation Administration regulations. We are subject to regulation by the Federal Aviation Administration under the provisions of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended. The FAA prescribes standards and licensing requirements for aircraft and aircraft components. We are subject to inspections by the FAA and may be subjected to fines and other penalties (including orders to cease production) for noncompliance with FAA regulations. Our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in the termination of or our disqualification from some of our contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. If our subcontractors or suppliers fail to perform their contractual obligations, our prime contract performance and our ability to obtain future business could be materially and adversely impacted. Many of our contracts involve subcontracts with other companies upon which we rely to perform a portion of the services that we must provide to our customers. There is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontract, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, or our hiring of personnel of a subcontractor. A failure by one or more of our subcontractors to satisfactorily provide on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services may materially and adversely impact our ability to perform our obligations as the prime c ontractor. Subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in a customer eliminating our ability to progress bill or terminating our contract for default. A prohibition on progress billing may have an adverse effect upon our profitability and a default termination could expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. In addition, a delay in our ability to obtain components and equipment parts from our suppliers may affect our ability to meet our customers’ needs and may have an adverse effect upon our profitability. Contract cost growth that cannot be justified as an increase in contract value due from customers exposes us to reduced profitability and the potential loss of future business. Operating margin is adversely affected when contract costs that cannot be billed to customers are incurred. This cost growth can occur if estimates to complete increase due to technical challenges or if initial estimates used for calculating the contract price were incorrect. The cost estimation process 8 Table of Contents requires significant judgment and expertise. Reasons for cost growth may include unavailability and productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the effect of change orders, the availability of materials, the effect of any delays in performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer, natural disasters, and the inability to recover any claims included in the estimates to complete. A significant change in cost estimates on one or more programs could have a material effect on the company’s consolidated financial position or results of operations. We use estimates when accounting for contracts. Changes in estimates could affect our profitability and our overall financial position. We recognize revenue from our contracts over the contractual period under the percentage-of-completion (POC) method of accounting. Under the POC method of accounting, sales and gross profit are recognized as work is performed based on the relationship between actual costs incurred and total estimated costs at the completion of the contract. Recognized revenues that will not be billed under the terms of the contract until a later date are recorded as an asset captioned ‘‘Costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts.’’ Contracts where billings to date have exceeded recognized revenues are recorded as a liability captioned ‘‘Billings in excess of costs and estimated e arnings on uncompleted contracts.’’ Changes to the original estimates may be required during the life of the contract. Estimates are reviewed monthly and the effect of any change in the estimated gross margin percentage for a contract is reflected in cost of sales in the period the change becomes known. The use of the POC method of accounting involves considerable use of estimates in determining revenues, costs and profits and in assigning the amounts to accounting periods. As a result, there can be a significant disparity between earnings (both for accounting and taxes) as reported and actual cash received by us during any reporting period. We continually evaluate all of the issues related to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent with the application of the POC method of accounting; however, we cannot assure you that our estimates will be accurate. If our estimates are not accurate or a contract is terminated, we will be forced to adjust revenue in later periods. Furthermore, even if our estimates are accurate, we may have a shortfall in our cash flow and we may need to borrow money to pay taxes until the reported earnings materialize to actual cash receipts. If the contracts associated with our backlog were terminated, our financial condition would be adversely affected. The maximum contract value specified under each government contract that we enter into is not necessarily indicative of the revenues that we will realize under that contract. Because we may not receive the full amount we expect under a contract, we may not accurately estimate our backlog because the actual accrual of revenues on programs included in backlog may never occur or may change. Cancellations of pending contracts or terminations or reductions of contracts in progress could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. As of December 31, 2006, our backlog was $48.2 million, of which 56% was funded and 44% was unfunded. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to enter into a new credit facility could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operations. At December 31, 2006, we had a cash balance of $38,564. During the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, we used cash of $1,015,151, $676,767 and $560,768, respectively, to fund our operations. Although we expect to have positive cash flow during the year ending December 31, 2007, our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs. Although we are currently negotiating to secure a long term credit agreement with our current lender, JPMorgan Chase Bank, or with another financial institution, we may not be able to secure a new line of credit on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We may be unable to retain personnel who are key to our operations. Our success, among other things, is dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified senior officers and engineers. Competition for key personnel is intense. Our ability to attract and 9 Table of Contents retain senior officers and experienced, top rate engineers is dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions and compensation packages offered by companies competing for the same talent. The inability to hire and retain these persons may adversely affect our production operations and other aspects of our business. We will be required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for the year ending December 31, 2007 and beyond. Any delays or difficulty in satisfying these requirements could adversely affect our future results of operations and our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with an established internal control framework and to report on our conclusion as to the effectiveness of our internal controls. It also requires an independent registered public accounting firm to test our internal control over financial reporting and report on the effectiveness of such controls for the year ending December 31, 2008 and subsequent years. An independent registered public accounting firm is also required to test, evaluate and report on the completeness of our assessment. We may discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement. We cannot be certain that any remedial measures we take will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate internal controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Our failure to implement or maintain adequate internal controls, or any difficulties we experience in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, or if our independent auditors are unable to provide us with an unqualified report regarding the effectiveness of our management’s assessment of our internal control over fi nancial reporting as of December 31, 2008 and in future periods as required by Section 404, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the price of our common stock. Failure to comply with Section 404 could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, the American Stock Exchange or other regulatory authorities. Our independent registered public accounting firm has reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If these material weaknesses are not remediated or were to recur, it could result in a material misstatement in our financial statements that would not be prevented or detected, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable 