RISK FACTORS The Company may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements. Written forward-looking statements may appear in this document and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in press releases, in reports to shareholders, on the Company’s website, and other documents. While these forward-looking statements, and any assumptions upon which they are based, are made in good faith and reflect our current judgment regarding the direction of our business, actual results will almost always vary, sometimes materially, from any estimates, predictions, projections, assumptions or other future performance suggested herein. Such estimates, projections or other forward looking estimates involve various risks and uncertainties as outlined below. We caution the reader that important factors in some cases have affected and could materially affect actual results in the future, and cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed in any estimates, projections or other forward-looking statements. Prospective investors should consider carefully the risk factors set out below. Chai-Na-Ta is subject to a number of business and financial risks including: agricultural risk such as weather and disease, commodity price risk for ginseng bulk root, exchange risk (predominantly United States and Hong Kong dollar related), the lengthy growing cycle for ginseng, interest rate risk, credit risk and the concentration of customers, and future need for financing. Going Concern 5 The Company did not plant new crops in 2009 or 2010 and is expecting to cease operations in their current form after completing the harvest in 2011 and the sale of the inventory from that harvest in 2012. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company had an operating loss of $53,000 and net earnings of $759,000 and has an accumulated deficit of $31,487,000 as at December 31, 2010 along with positive working capital of $8,751,000 and net cash inflows for the year of $171,000. Management anticipates there will be positive cash inflows from operations for 2011 and 2012. Agricultural Risks The Company’s primary business is the cultivation and marketing of North American ginseng. Ginseng farming is subject to agricultural risks such as weather and disease and risks of low yields, poor crop quality, and crop failure. Insurance is available to cover such risks but the relatively high costs have resulted in the Company electing to self-insure. Although the Company believes that its Integrated Crop Management System and diversification of farming operations will help mitigate risks, there can be no assurance that such policies or procedures will be effective in reducing such risks and accordingly, the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be materially affected. Product Pricing The marketing of bulk and graded North American ginseng in world markets is subject to pricing risks. The price of North American ginseng may be affected by factors such as the size, shape, color, taste, and quality of the harvest for the Company and the industry at large, as well as other factors in any given year. These are factors that the Company may not be able to control in the short term. North American ginseng root prices remained at low levels in 2009 but there was a significant increase at the end of 2010. Although the Company believes that prices will be stronger in 2011 than in 2010, significant changes in the supply of or demand for North American ginseng may adversely impact the price of ginseng roots and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Lengthy Growing Cycle for Ginseng As the cycle for growing ginseng takes several years from the time of planting to the time of harvesting, our future profitability is also impacted by our ability to accurately predict demand for our products in future years. Unanticipated decreases in demand or excess supplies in world markets could adversely affect profitability due in part to the limitation in our inability to make adjustments to the size of our crops in reaction to short term swings in supply and demand. Lower than expected yields and quality could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Availability of Suitable Land The Company leases approximately 163 acres and owns 50 acres of farm land in Canada of which 140 acres are currently under ginseng cultivation. Generally, the Company uses farm land only for one ginseng crop as it is generally believed that ginseng depletes the soil of nutrients necessary for a second successful ginseng crop. 6 Since the Company does not plan to make any additional plantings, the availability of suitable farm land will no longer have an effect on the Company's business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Competition The ginseng industry is quite competitive as the Company competes with numerous other long established ginseng growers. Most of these competitors are managed by private companies or individuals who have smaller acres under cultivation and harvest fewer pounds of ginseng but also have lower overhead costs compared to the Company. A high amount of ginseng harvested by the competition can adversely affect the price that the Company can achieve for its ginseng. Credit Risk and the Concentration of Customers The Company is exposed to credit risk on accounts receivable from customers. In order to manage its credit risk, the Company carefully monitors credit terms, and investigates credit history. Payments or deposits are usually received before shipments of inventory to the customer and credit is typically granted only to customers with established relationships or those customers which have been subject to a credit review and approval by management. When such relationships have not been established or credit reviews have not been acceptable, letters of credit may be used to secure such payment or revenues may not be recognized until collection. The Company’s product is typically sold to major ginseng brokers in Hong Kong or Canada and a limited number of smaller direct customers. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company had sales of approximately 89% to its top four customers, approximately 78% to its top three customers, and approximately 87% to its top three customers in each year, respectively. The Company believes that a limited number of customers will continue to represent a significant portion of its total revenue. Although the Company does not consider itself economically dependent upon any single customer or combination of customers due to the existence of other potential brokers capable of purchasing the Company’s supply, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain its current significant customers or secure significant new customers on similar terms and this may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company had sales of approximately 57%, 79% and 87% to customers in the Hong Kong and China geographic region. Although the Company sold a smaller proportion of its inventory to customers in Hong Kong and China in 2010, the Company believes that the majority of its domestic customers will resell the product in Hong Kong and China. The Company expects sales to markets in Hong Kong and China to continue to represent the majority of the Company’s sales. Any adverse change in the demand for ginseng in Hong Kong and China may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Risks Associated with International Operations The Company operates in international markets and conducts business in Canada (bulk root farming operations and certain bulk root sales) and Hong Kong (bulk root sales centre in Asia). There are a number of risks inherent in the Company’s international business activities, including changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, costs and risks associated with foreign markets, differing culture and business practices, potentially adverse tax consequences, the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, war, insurrection, terrorism and other political risks and factors beyond the Company’s control. Exchange risks are also present as currencies may fluctuate at different rates depending on economic, political and other factors. There can be no assurance that adverse changes in the above noted factors will not materially affect the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 7 Foreign Exchange The Company transacts primarily in US$, CDN$ and Hong Kong dollar (“HK$”) denominations. The Hong Kong Monetary Authority has set up a linked exchange rate system in which the HK$ is limited to a trading range of HK$7.75 – HK$7.85 against the US$. The Company’s long-term debt is denominated in US$. The Company monitors its exposure to foreign exchange risk and balances its foreign currency holdings to reduce exposure to any one currency by engaging in foreign exchange contracts and by repatriating any excess funds. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly the weakening or strengthening of the US$ against the CDN$ could have a significant impact on our results of operations. Market for Common Shares; Potential Volatility of Stock Price The trading prices of the Common Shares have been subject to wide fluctuations in recent years. There can be no assurance that the market price of the Common Shares will not significantly fluctuate from its current level. Furthermore, the low average trading volumes for the Company’s Common Shares may impact the liquidity of the shares or the ultimate price at which they can be sold. Financing of Current Operations The Company relies on the sale of inventory to fund the maintenance and harvest of ginseng crops that will be harvested in the future. To fund current operations the Company will first try and sell inventory but if the Company cannot reach acceptable selling terms the Company will attempt to fund current operations with additional financing. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available or available on acceptable terms. This could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Long-Term Financing The Company has historically used term debt financing to finance capital asset acquisitions and short-term borrowings and operating lines to finance crops and working capital needs. In 2009, the Company extended a term loan facility that had been established in 2006 to finance the general working capital requirements of the Company. Interest rate risk is managed by arranging most term debt financing with fixed rates for the life of the obligations. Directors, Officers and Key Employees The success of the Company is currently largely dependent on the performance of its officers and key senior management. The loss of the services of these persons will have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s business and prospects. The Company has offered retention bonuses to its officers and key senior management in an effort to ensure that they will stay with the Company through the expected final harvest in 2011 and the sale of inventory from that harvest in 2012. There is no assurance the Company can maintain the services of its officers and key senior management or other qualified personnel required to operate its business. Failure to do so could have a material adverse affect on the Company. The Company has not purchased any “key-man” insurance with respect to any of its directors or officers to the date hereof. The loss of any key officer or employee of the Company could have an adverse impact on the Company, its business and its financial position. 8 