Item 1A Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The Company refers to itself as “we” or “our” in this section. Excess capacity in the vegetable industry has a downward impact on selling price. Our financial performance and growth are related to conditions in the United States vegetable processing industry which is a mature industry with a modest growth rate in the last 10 years. Our net sales are a function of product availability and market pricing. In the vegetable processing industry, product availability and market prices tend to have an inverse relationship: market prices tend to decrease as more product is available and to increase if less product is available. Product availability is a direct result of plantings, growing conditions, crop yields and inventory levels, all of which vary from year to year. In addition, market prices can be affected by the planting and inventory levels and individual pricing decisions of the three or four largest processors in the industry. Generally, market prices in the vegetable processing industry adjust more quickly to variations in product availability than an individual processor can adjust its cost structure; thus, in an oversupply situation, a processor’s margins likely will weaken. We typically have experienced lower margins during times of industry oversupply. In the past, the vegetable processing industry has been characterized by excess capacity, with resulting pressure on our prices and profit margins. Both the Company and our competitors have closed processing plants in response to the downward pressure on prices. There can be no assurance that our margins will improve in response to favorable market conditions or that we will be able to operate profitably during depressed market conditions. Moreover, vegetable production outside the United States, particularly in Asia and Latin America, is increasing and, in the future, may have a significant effect on competition and create downward pressure on prices. Growing cycles and adverse weather conditions may decrease our results from operations. Our operations are affected by the growing cycles of the vegetables we process. When the vegetables are ready to be picked, we must harvest and process the vegetables or forego the opportunity to process fresh picked vegetables for an entire year. Most of our vegetables are grown by farmers under contract with us. Consequently, we must pay the contract grower for the vegetables even if we cannot or do not harvest or process them. Most of our production occurs during the second quarter (July through September) of our fiscal year. In that quarter, the growing season ends for most of the vegetables processed by us in the northern United States. A majority of our sales occur during the third and fourth quarter of each fiscal year (due to seasonal consumption patterns for our products). Accordingly, inventory levels are highest during the second and third quarters, and accounts receivable levels are highest during the third and fourth quarters. Net sales generated during our third and fourth fiscal quarters have a significant impact on our results of operations. Because of these seasonal fluctuations, the results of any particular quarter, particularly in the first half of our fiscal year, will not necessarily be indicative of results for the full year or for future years. Because weather conditions during the course of each vegetable crop’s growing season will affect the volume and growing time of that crop, we must set planting schedules without knowing the effect of the weather on the crops or on the entire industry’s production. As most vegetables are produced in more than one part of the U.S., we may somewhat reduce our risk that our entire crop will be subject to disastrous weather. The upper Midwest is the primary growing region for the principal vegetables which we pack, namely peas, green beans and corn, and it is also a substantial source of our competitors’ vegetable production. Consequently, the adverse effects of weather-related reduced production in that region may be partially mitigated by higher prices for the vegetables which are produced. The commodity materials that we process or otherwise require are subject to price increases that could adversely affect our profitability. The materials that we use, such as vegetables, steel and packaging materials are commodities that may experience price volatility caused by external factors including market fluctuations, availability, currency fluctuations and changes in governmental regulations and agricultural programs. These events can result in reduced supplies of these materials, higher supply costs or interruptions in our production schedules. If prices of these raw materials increase, but we are not able to effectively pass such price increases along to our customers, our operating income will decrease. We face risks generally associated with our debt. As of March 31, 2006, we had a total of approximately $209 million of indebtedness. Our indebtedness could have important consequences, such as limiting our operational flexibility due to the covenants contained in our debt agreements; limiting our ability to invest in our business due to debt service requirements; limiting our ability to compete with companies that are not as highly leveraged; and increasing our vulnerability to economic downturns and changing market conditions. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, governmental and other factors, including potential changes in consumer preferences and pressure from competitors. If we do not have enough money to pay our debt service obligations, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or raise equity. There is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of the existing debt. Our dependence on the Alliance Agreement could negatively affect sales. We have an Alliance Agreement with GMOI, whereby we process canned and frozen vegetables for GMOI under the Green Giant brand name. GMOI continues to be responsible for all of the sales, marketing and customer service functions for the Green Giant products. The Alliance Agreement has a remaining term of eight years. Green Giant products packed by us in fiscal 2006 and 2005 constituted approximately 27% and 26%, respectively, of our total sales. General Mills, Inc. guarantees GMOI’s obligations under the Alliance Agreement. The Alliance Agreement has an initial term ending December 31, 2014, and will be extended automatically for additional five year terms unless terminated in accordance with the provisions of the Alliance Agreement. Upon virtually all of the causes of termination enumerated in the Alliance Agreement, GMOI will acquire legal title to three production plants and certain of the other assets which we acquired under the Alliance Agreement, and various financial adjustments between the parties will occur. If GMOI terminates the Alliance Agreement without cause, it must pay us a substantial termination payment. Our sales and financial performance under the Alliance Agreement and our sales of Green Giant products depend to a significant extent on our success in producing quality Green Giant vegetables at competitive costs and GMOI’s success in marketing the products produced by us. The ability of GMOI to successfully market these products will depend upon GMOI’s sales efforts, as well as the factors described above under “—Excess capacity in the vegetable industry has a downward effect on price.” We cannot give assurance as to the volume of GMOI’s sales and cannot control many of the key factors affecting that volume. The Alliance Agreement contains extensive covenants by us with respect to quality and delivery of products, maintenance of the Alliance Plants and other standards of our performance. If we were to fail in our performance of these covenants, GMOI would be entitled to terminate the Alliance Agreement. Termination of the Alliance Agreement will, in most cases, entitle our principal lenders, including our long-term lenders, to declare a default under our loan agreements with them. The principal lenders have a security interest in certain payments that we will receive from GMOI on termination of the Alliance Agreement. Unless we were to enter into a new substantial supply relationship with GMOI or another major vegetable marketer and acquire substantial production capacity to replace the GMOI production plants, any such termination would substantially reduce our sales. Sales to GMOI have declined $12 million, from $252 million to $240 million, between fiscal year 2003 and fiscal year 2006. If we do not maintain the market shares of our products, our business and revenues may be adversely affected. All of our products compete with those of other national, major and smaller regional food processing companies under highly competitive conditions. The vegetable products which we sell under our own brand names not only compete with vegetable products produced by vegetable processing competitors, but also compete with products we produce and sell to other companies who market those products under their own brand names, such as the Green Giant vegetables we sell to GMOI under the Alliance Agreement and the vegetables we sell to various retail grocery chains which carry our buyers’ own brand names. The customers who buy our products to sell under their own brand names control the marketing programs for those products. In recent years, many major retail food chains have been increasing their promotions, offerings and shelf space allocations for their own vegetable brands, to the detriment of vegetable brands owned by the processors, including our own brands. We cannot predict the pricing or promotional activities of our competitors or whether they will have a negative effect on us. There are competitive pressures and other factors which could cause our products to lose market share or result in significant price erosion, and which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in logistics and other transportation-related costs could materially adversely impact our results of operations. Our ability to competitively serve our customers depends on the availability of reliable and low-cost transportation. Logistics and other transportation-related costs have a significant impact on our earnings and results of operations. We use multiple forms of transportation to bring our products to market. They include trucks, intermodals, rail cars, and ships. Disruption to the timely supply of these services or increases in the cost of these services for any reason, including availability or cost of fuel, regulations affecting the industry, or labor shortages in the transportation industry, could have an adverse effect on our ability to serve our customers, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. If we are subject to product liability claims, we may incur significant and unexpected costs and our business reputation could be adversely affected. Food processors are subject to significant liability should the consumption of their products cause injury or illness. A product liability judgment against us could also result in substantial and unexpected expenditures and divert management’s attention from other responsibilities. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage in amounts customary within the industry, there can be no assurance that this level of coverage is adequate or that we will be able to continue to maintain our existing insurance or obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. A product recall or a partially or completely uninsured judgment against us could have a material adverse effect on results of operations and financial condition. During the second quarter of our fiscal year 2005, the Company recalled certain products and recognized a charge of $1,280,000 as previously reported. We generate agricultural food processing wastes and are subject to substantial environmental regulation. As a vegetable processor, we regularly dispose of vegetable wastes (silage) and processing water, as well as materials used in plant operation and maintenance, and our plant boilers, which generate heat used in processing, produce generally small emissions into the air. These activities and operations are regulated by federal and state laws and the respective federal and state environmental agencies. Occasionally, we may be required to remediate conditions found by the regulators to be in violation of environmental law or to contribute to the cost of remediating waste disposal sites which we neither owned nor operated but in which we and many other companies deposited waste materials, usually through independent waste disposal companies. The costs of this remediation and contributions (including occasional fines) have not been significant. As a major vegetable producer, we run the risk of occasional future costs and inadvertent violations, even though we maintain an environmental department to assist us in environmental compliance. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments The Company does not have any unresolved comments from the SEC staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Item 