Item 1A Risk Factors The following factors as well as factors described elsewhere in this Form 10-K or in other filings by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission, could adversely affect the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Other factors not presently known to us or that we presently believe are not material could also affect our business operations or financial results. The Company refers to itself as “we”, “our” or “us” in this section. Excess capacity in the fruit and vegetable industry has a downward impact on selling price. Our financial performance and growth are related to conditions in the United States' fruit and vegetable processing industry which is a mature industry with a modest growth rate during the last 10 years. Our net sales are a function of product availability and market pricing. In the fruit and vegetable processing industry, product availability and market prices tend to have an inverse relationship: market prices tend to decrease as more product is available and to increase if less product is available. Product availability is a direct result of plantings, growing conditions, crop yields and inventory levels, all of which vary from year to year. Moreover, fruit and vegetable production outside the United States, particularly in Europe, Asia and South America, is increasing at a time when worldwide demand for certain products, such as peaches, is being impacted by the global economic slowdown. These factors may have a significant effect on supply and competition and create downward pressure on prices. In addition, market prices can be affected by the planting and inventory levels and individual pricing decisions of our competitors. Generally, market prices in the fruit and vegetable processing industry adjust more quickly to variations in product availability than an individual processor can adjust its cost structure; thus, in an oversupply situation, a processor’s margins likely will weaken. We typically have experienced lower margins during times of industry oversupply. In the past, the fruit and vegetable processing industry has been characterized by excess capacity, with resulting pressure on our prices and profit margins. We have closed processing plants in response to the downward pressure on prices. There can be no assurance that our margins will improve in response to favorable market conditions or that we will be able to operate profitably during depressed market conditions. Growing cycles and adverse weather conditions may decrease our results from operations. Our operations are affected by the growing cycles of the fruits and vegetables we process. When the fruits and vegetables are ready to be picked, we must harvest and process them or forego the opportunity to process fresh picked fruits and vegetables for an entire year. Most of our fruits and vegetables are grown by farmers under contract with us. Consequently, we must pay the contract grower for the fruits and vegetables even if we cannot or do not harvest or process them. Most of our production occurs during the second quarter (July through September) of our fiscal year, which corresponds with the quarter that the growing season ends for most of the produce processed by us. In that quarter, the growing season ends for most of the vegetables processed by us in the northern United States. A majority of our sales occur during the third and fourth quarter of each fiscal year due to seasonal consumption patterns for our products. Accordingly, inventory levels are highest during the second and third quarters, and accounts receivable levels are highest during the third and fourth quarters. Net sales generated during our third and fourth fiscal quarters have a significant impact on our results of operations. Because of these seasonal fluctuations, the results of any particular quarter, particularly in the first half of our fiscal year, will not necessarily be indicative of results for the full year or for future years. We set our planting schedules without knowing the effect of the weather on the crops or on the entire industry’s production. Weather conditions during the course of each fruit and vegetable crop’s growing season will affect the volume and growing time of that crop. As most vegetables are produced in more than one part of the U.S., this somewhat reduces the risk that our entire crop will be subject to disastrous weather. The upper Midwest is the primary growing region for the principal vegetables which we pack, namely peas, green beans and corn, and it is also a substantial source of our competitors’ vegetable production. California is the primary growing region for the fruits we pack, namely peaches, pears, apricots and grapes. The adverse effects of weather-related reduced production may be partially mitigated by higher selling prices for the fruits and vegetables which are produced. The commodity materials that we process or otherwise require are subject to price increases that could adversely affect our profitability. The materials that we use, such as fruits and vegetables, steel (used to make cans), ingredients and packaging materials as well as the electricity and natural gas used in our business, are commodities that may experience price volatility caused by external factors, including market fluctuations, availability, currency fluctuations and changes in governmental regulations and agricultural programs. For example, demand for corn has been significantly affected by U.S. governmental policies designed to encourage the production of ethanol, which is diverting acreage previously used for the production of food for human consumption. The Federal Farm Bill further restricts available acreage by prohibiting the planting of fruits and vegetables on “base” acres used for soybeans and field corn. General inventory positions of major commodities, such as field corn, soybeans and wheat, all commodities with which we must compete for acreage, can have dramatic effects on prices for those commodities, which can translate into similar swings in prices needed to be paid for our contracted commodities. These programs and other events can result in reduced supplies of these commodities, higher supply costs or interruptions in our production schedules. If prices of these commodities increase beyond what we can pass along to our customers, our operating income will decrease. The termination or non-renewal of the Alliance Agreement with GMOL could negatively affect our business and operations. We have an Alliance Agreement with GMOL, whereby we process canned and frozen vegetables for GMOL, primarily under the Green Giant brand name. GMOL continues to be responsible for all of the sales, marketing and customer service functions for the Green Giant products. General Mills, Inc. guarantees various GMOL financial obligations under the Alliance Agreement. 5 The Alliance Agreement has an initial term ending December 31, 2014, and will be extended automatically for additional five year terms unless terminated in accordance with the provisions of the Alliance Agreement by either party with or without cause. We are subject to extensive covenants in the Alliance Agreement with respect to quality and delivery of products, maintenance of the Alliance Agreement production plants and other standards of our performance. If we were to fail in our performance of these covenants, GMOL would be entitled to terminate the Alliance Agreement. Upon virtually all of the causes of termination enumerated in the Alliance Agreement, GMOL will acquire legal title to three production plants and certain of the other assets which we acquired under the Alliance Agreement and various financial adjustments between the parties will occur. If GMOL or the Company terminates the Alliance Agreement without cause, the terminating party must pay a substantial termination payment. Termination of the Alliance Agreement would, in most cases, entitle our principal lenders, including our long-term lenders, to declare a default under our loan agreements with them. The principal lenders have a security interest in certain payments that we receive from GMOL both during and on termination of the Alliance Agreement. Unless we were to enter into a new substantial supply relationship with GMOL or another major vegetable marketer and acquire substantial production capacity to replace the GMOL production plants, any such termination would substantially reduce our sales and net income and the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We depend upon key customers. Our products are sold in a highly competitive marketplace, which includes increased concentration and a growing presence of large-format retailers and discounters. Dependence upon key customers could lead to increased pricing pressure by these customers. Green Giant products packed by us in fiscal years 2009 and 2008 constituted approximately 18% and 19%, respectively, of our total sales. Our sales of Green Giant product and financial performance under the Alliance Agreement depend to a significant extent on our success in producing quality Green Giant vegetables at competitive costs and GMOL’s success in marketing the products produced by us. The ability of GMOL to successfully market these products will depend upon GMOL’s sales efforts as well as the factors described above under “—Excess capacity in the fruit and vegetable industry has a downward impact on selling price.” We cannot give assurance as to the volume of GMOL’s sales and cannot control many of the key factors affecting that volume. Sales to GMOL declined $20 million, from $252 million to $232 million, between fiscal year 2003 and fiscal year 2009 based on changes in GMOL’s demand for the commodities we produce for them. Additionally, purchases by the United Sates Department of Agriculture (“USDA”) in fiscal year 2009 represented approximately 6% of our total sales. The purchase of our products by the USDA is done through the government’s competitive bid process. We bid on stated product requirements and needs as presented by the USDA and, if we are the successful bidder, we fulfill the contract and deliver the product. The government contracting process is complex and subject to numerous regulations and requirements. Failure by us to comply with the regulations and requirements for government contracts could jeopardize our ability to contract with the government and could result in reduced sales or prohibition on submitting bids to the USDA. The government procurement process could also change and result in our inability to meet the new requirements. Additionally, the government’s need for our products could decrease, which would result in reduced sales to the USDA. If we lose a significant customer or if sales to a significant customer materially decrease, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If we do not maintain the market shares of our products, our business and revenues may be adversely affected. All of our products compete with those of other national and regional food processing companies under highly competitive conditions. The vegetable products which we sell under our own brand names not only compete with vegetable products produced by vegetable processing competitors, but also compete with products we produce and sell to other companies who market those products under their own brand names, such as the Green Giant vegetables we sell to GMOL under the Alliance Agreement and the fruits and vegetables we sell to various retail grocery chains which carry our buyers’ own brand names. The customers who buy our products to sell under their own brand names control the marketing programs for those products. In recent years, many major retail food chains have been increasing their promotions, offerings and shelf space allocations for their own fruit and vegetable brands, to the detriment of fruit and vegetable brands owned by the processors, including our own brands. We cannot predict the pricing or promotional activities of our customers/competitors or whether they will have a negative effect on us. There are competitive pressures and other factors, which could cause our products to lose market share or result in significant price erosion that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in logistics and other transportation-related costs could materially adversely impact our results of operations. Our ability to competitively serve our customers depends on the availability of reliable and low-cost transportation. We use multiple forms of transportation to bring our products to market. They include trucks, intermodal, rail cars, and ships. Disruption to the timely supply of these services or increases in the cost of these services for any reason, including availability or cost of fuel, regulations affecting the industry, or labor shortages in the transportation industry, could have an adverse effect on our ability to serve our customers, and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are subject to product liability claims, we may incur significant and unexpected costs and our business reputation could be adversely affected. Food processors are subject to significant liability should the consumption of their products cause injury or illness. We are working with regulators, the industry and suppliers to stay abreast of developments. A product liability judgment against us could also result in substantial and unexpected expenditures, affect consumer confidence in our products, and divert management’s attention from other responsibilities. Product liability claims may also lead to increased scrutiny by federal and state regulatory agencies and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, there can be no assurance that this level of coverage is adequate or that we will be able to continue to maintain our existing insurance or obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. A product recall or a partially or completely uninsured judgment against us could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 We generate agricultural food processing wastes and are subject to substantial environmental regulation. As a food processor, we regularly dispose of produce wastes (silage) and processing water as well as materials used in plant operation and maintenance, and our plant boilers, which generate heat used in processing, produce generally small emissions into the air. These activities and operations are regulated by federal and state laws and the respective federal and state environmental agencies. Occasionally, we may be required to remediate conditions found by the regulators to be in violation of environmental law or to contribute to the cost of remediating waste disposal sites, which we neither owned nor operated, but in which, we and other companies deposited waste materials, usually through independent waste disposal companies. Future possible costs of environmental remediation, contributions and penalties could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have initiated the implementation of SAP Enterprise Resource Planning system which, if not effectively managed and controlled, may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In fiscal year 2008, we began planning and design of a new enterprise resource planning system. Phased implementation commenced during fiscal year 2009 and is currently scheduled to continue during fiscal year 2010. If the new system is not successfully implemented, we may experience business disruptions, resources being inappropriately diverted and substantial cost overruns. We may also have inadequate information to manage our businesses and prepare accurate financial information. In addition, should the project not be successfully completed, the capitalized cost for this project might have to be expensed, resulting in an unanticipated reduction in profitability. If any of these risks materialized, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our production capacity for certain products and commodities is concentrated in a limited number of facilities, exposing us to a material disruption in production in the event that a disaster strikes. We only have one plant that produces fruit products and one plant that produces pumpkin products. We have two plants that manufacture empty cans, one with substantially more capacity than the other, which are not interchangeable since each plant cannot necessarily produce all the can sizes needed. Although we maintain property and business interruption insurance coverage, there can be no assurance that this level of coverage is adequate in the event of a catastrophe or significant disruption at these or other Company facilities. If such an event occurs, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The current global economic downturn and capital and credit market crisis may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unfavorable economic conditions, including the impact of recessions in the United States and throughout the world, may negatively affect our business and financial results. These economic conditions could negatively impact (i) consumer demand for our products, (ii) the mix of our products’ sales, (iii) our ability to collect accounts receivable on a timely basis, (iv) the ability of suppliers to provide the materials required in our operations and (v) our ability to obtain financing or to otherwise access the capital markets. The strength of the U.S. dollar versus other world currencies could result in increased competition from imported products and decreased sales to our international customers. A prolonged recession could result in decreased revenue, margins and earnings. Additionally, the economic situation could have an impact on our lenders or customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. The occurrence of any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A decrease in the fair value of pension assets could materially increase future funding requirements of the pension plans. We sponsor defined benefit pension plans for certain employee groups. The market value of the investments within the employee pension plan declined by approximately 39.0% during the year ended March 31, 2009. The benefit plan assets and obligations of the Company are recalculated annually using an April 1 measurement date. Reductions in plan assets from investment losses may result in an increase in the plan’s unfunded status, including potentially to a level of funding below 60%, and a decrease in stockholders’ equity upon actuarial revaluation of the plan. Change in the value of plan assets resulted in a $15.5 million net reduction of stockholders’ equity in fiscal year 2009. Reduced plan assets will result in increased benefit expense in future years and will increase the amount and accelerate the timing of required future funding contributions. See Note 8, “Retirement Plans,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our 2009 Annual Report and incorporated by reference herein. Depending upon market conditions, such increases could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may undertake acquisitions or product innovations and may have difficulties integrating them or may not realize the anticipated benefits. In the future, we may undertake acquisitions of other businesses or introduce new products, although there can be no assurances that these will occur. Such undertakings involve numerous risks and significant investments. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and acquire acquisition candidates on favorable terms, to profitably manage or to successfully integrate future businesses it may acquire or new products it may introduce without substantial costs, delays or problems. Any of these outcomes could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 Our ability to manage our working capital and our credit facility is critical to our success. As of March 31, 2009, we had approximately $231 million of total indebtedness and our scheduled debt service costs in 2010 are $38.9 million. Our indebtedness consists of various debt agreements and a $250 million revolving credit facility dated as of August 18, 2006 with a consortium of five banks for which Bank of America, N.A. acts as Administrative Agent, Collateral Agent and Issuing Bank (“credit facility”). During our second and third fiscal quarters, our operations generally require more cash than is available from operations. In these circumstances, it may be necessary to borrow under our credit facility. Our ability to obtain financing in the future through credit facilities will be affected by several factors, including our creditworthiness, our ability to operate in a profitable manner and general market and credit conditions. Significant changes in our business or cash outflows from operations could create a need for additional working capital. An inability to obtain additional working capital on terms reasonably acceptable to us or access the credit facility would materially and adversely affect our operations. Additionally, if we need to use a portion of our cash flows to pay principal and interest on our debt, it will reduce the amount of money we have for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansions, acquisitions or general corporate or other business activities. Should economic conditions require the Company to restructure the credit facility, the revised terms could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with the requirements of our debt agreements and credit facility could have a material adverse effect on our business. The debt agreements and credit facility contain financial and other restrictive covenants which, among other things, limit our ability to borrow money, including with respect to the refinancing of existing indebtedness. These provisions may limit our ability to conduct our business, take advantage of business opportunities and respond to changing business, market and economic conditions. In addition, they may place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies that may be subject to fewer, if any, restrictions. Failure to comply with the requirements of our credit facility and debt agreements could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Tax legislation could impact future cash flows. The U.S. budget proposal currently being discussed includes potential changes to current tax law, including the repeal of the LIFO (Last-In, First-Out) method of inventory accounting. As currently drafted, LIFO will be repealed for tax years beginning after 2011 and LIFO reserves existing at that time would be taxed ratably over an eight year period. As of March 31, 2009, we had a LIFO reserve of $86.5 million which represents approximately $30.3 million of income taxes, at the statutory U.S. corporate tax rate. Should LIFO be repealed, the payment of these taxes, and any future taxes realized prior to the date of repeal, over the eight year period, will reduce the amount of money that we have for our operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansions, acquisitions or general corporate or other business activities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon a seasonal workforce and our inability to hire sufficient employees may adversely affect our business. At the end of our 2009 fiscal year, we had approximately 3,200 employees of which 2,800 full time and 300 seasonal employees worked in food processing and 100 employees worked in other activities. During the peak summer harvest period, we hire approximately 6,500 seasonal employees to help process fruits and vegetables. Many of our processing operations are located in rural communities that may not have sufficient labor pools, requiring us to hire employees from other regions. An inability to hire and train sufficient employees during the critical harvest period could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not pay dividends on our common stock and do not expect to pay common dividends in the future. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock in more than 25 years and we have no intention to do so in the near future. In addition, payment of cash dividends on our common stock is not permitted by the terms of our revolving credit facility. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments The Company does not have any unresolved comments from the SEC staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 8 Item 