Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below may materially impact your investment in our company or may in the future, and, in some cases already do, materially affect us and our business, financial condition and results of operations. You should carefully consider these factors with respect to your investment in our securities. This section includes or refers to certain forward-looking statements; you should read the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on such forward-looking statements beginning on pages 4 of this report. Risks Related to Our Company We have a history of operating losses, may not be able to achieve profitability and may require additional capital in order to sustain our businesses. For each of the past ten fiscal years, we have experienced losses from operating our businesses. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $231.7 million. During the year ended December 31, 2009 we had a loss from continuing operations of approximately $30.0 million. If, however, we are unable to operate on a cash flow breakeven basis in the future, we may need to raise additional capital in order to sustain our operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve such results or to raise such funds if they are required. We could issue additional common stock, which might dilute the book value of our common stock. We have authorized 200,000,000 shares of our common stock, of which 70,567,781 shares were issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2009. Our board of directors has the authority, without action or vote of our stockholders in most cases, to issue all or a part of any authorized but unissued shares. Such stock issuances may be made at a price that reflects a discount from the then-current trading price of our common stock. In addition, in order to raise the capital that we may need at today's stock prices, we will need to issue securities that are convertible into or exercisable for a significant amount of our common stock. These issuances would dilute your percentage ownership interest, which will have the effect of reducing your influence on matters on which our stockholders vote, and might dilute the book value of our common stock. You may incur additional dilution of net tangible book value if holders of stock options, whether currently outstanding or subsequently granted, exercise their options or if warrant holders exercise their warrants to purchase shares of our common stock. 11 Table of Contents The sale or issuance of a large number of shares of our common stock could depress our stock price. As of February 28, 2010, we have reserved 35,636,364 shares of common stock for issuance upon exercise of stock options and warrants and 9,015,820 shares for future issuances under our stock plans. We have also reserved 251,678 shares of common stock for issuance upon conversion of the outstanding Series B Preferred Stock, which can be converted at any time. In addition, we have reserved 24,038,461 shares of common stock for issuance upon conversion of the outstanding Series C Preferred Stock, which can be converted at any time. As of March 1, 2010, holders of warrants and options to purchase an aggregate of 30,310,731 shares of our common stock may exercise those securities and transfer the underlying common stock at any time subject, in some cases, to Rule 144. The execution of our growth strategy is dependent upon the continued availability of third-party financing arrangements for our customers, and is affected by general economic conditions. The current recessionary condition of the general economy and limited availability of credit and liquidity could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Many purchasers of our inverters and other products require financing from third-parties to finance their operations. Given the current recession and the restricted credit markets, certain of our customers may be unable or unwilling to finance the cost to purchase our products or may be forced to cancel previously submitted orders or delay taking shipment until suitable credit is again available. Collecting payment from customers facing liquidity challenges may also be difficult. These factors could materially and adversely affect our anticipated revenue and growth and, accordingly, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. If we are unable to maintain our technological expertise in design and manufacturing processes, we will not be able to successfully compete. We believe that our future success will depend upon our ability to develop and provide products that meet the changing needs of our customers. This requires that we successfully anticipate and respond to technological changes in design and manufacturing processes in a cost-effective and timely manner. As a result, we continually evaluate the advantages and feasibility of new product design and manufacturing processes. We cannot, however, assure you that our process improvement efforts will be successful. The introduction of new products embodying new technologies and the emergence of shifting customer demands or changing industry standards could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable, which would have a significant impact on our ability to generate revenue. Our future success will depend upon our ability to continue to develop and introduce a variety of new products and product enhancements to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. We may experience delays in releasing new products and product enhancements in the future. Material delays in introducing new products or product enhancements may cause customers to forego purchases of our products and purchase those of our competitors. The U.S. government has certain rights relating to our intellectual property. Many of our patents are the result of inventions made under U.S. government-funded research and development programs. With respect to any invention made with government assistance, the government has a nonexclusive, nontransferable, irrevocable, paid-up license to use the technology or have the technology employed for or on behalf of the U.S. government throughout the world. Under certain conditions, the U.S. government also has "march-in rights," which enable the U.S. government to require us to grant a nonexclusive, partially exclusive, or exclusive license in any field of use to responsible applicants, upon terms that are reasonable under the circumstances. 12 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to protect our patents and proprietary technology. As of February 28, 2010, we held approximately 47 U.S. patents and had 2 patent applications pending with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. The expiration dates of our patents range from 2011 to 2027, with the majority expiring after 2015. As a qualifying small business from our inception to date, we have retained commercial ownership rights to proprietary technology developed under various U.S. government contracts and grants. Our patent and trade secret rights are of significant importance to us and to our future prospects. Our ability to compete effectively against other companies in our industry will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and systems designs relating to our products. Although we have attempted to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, we do not know whether we have been or will be successful in doing so. Further, our competitors may independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. No assurance can be given as to the issuance of additional patents or, if so issued, as to their scope. Patents granted may not provide meaningful protection from competitors. Even if a competitor's products were to infringe patents owned by us, it would be costly for us to pursue our rights in an enforcement action and there can be no assurance that we would be successful in enforcing our intellectual property rights. Because we intend to enforce our patents, trademarks and copyrights and protect our trade secrets, we may be involved from time to time in litigation to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of these rights. This litigation could result in substantial costs to us and divert resources from operational goals. In addition, effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country where we operate or sell our products. In addition, certain of our customers may request that we provide them with assurances that elements of our intellectual property be available for their use in the event that we are prevented from satisfying our service and warranty obligations to them or their customers. We may not be able to maintain confidentiality of our proprietary knowledge. In addition to our patent rights, we also rely on treatment of our technology as trade secrets through confidentiality agreements, which all of our employees are required to sign, assigning to us all patent rights and other intellectual property developed by our employees during their employment with us. Our employees have also agreed not to disclose any trade secrets or confidential information without our prior written consent. We also rely on non-disclosure agreement to protect our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Our trade secrets may also be known without breach of these agreements or may be independently developed by competitors. Failure to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology and information could harm our results of operations and financial condition by reducing or eliminating our technological advantages in the marketplace. Others may assert that our technology infringes their intellectual property rights. We believe that we do not infringe the proprietary rights of others and, to date, no third parties have asserted an infringement claim against us, but we may be subject to infringement claims in the future. The defense of any claims of infringement made against us by third parties could involve significant legal costs and require our management to divert time from our business operations. If we are unsuccessful in defending any claims of infringement, we may be forced to obtain licenses or to pay royalties to continue to use our technology. We may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we fail to obtain necessary licenses or other rights, or if these licenses are costly, our operating results may suffer either from reductions in revenues through our inability to serve customers or from increases in costs to license third-party technologies. 13 Table of Contents Our success is dependent upon attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel and the loss of key personnel could significantly hurt our business. To achieve success, we must attract and retain highly qualified technical, operational and executive employees. The loss of the services of key employees or an inability to attract, train and retain qualified and skilled employees, specifically engineering, operations and business development personnel, could result in the loss of business or could otherwise negatively impact our ability to operate and grow our business successfully. We expect significant competition for our products and services. In the past, we have faced limited competition in providing research services, prototype development and custom and limited quantity manufacturing. We expect competition to intensify greatly as commercial applications increase for our products under development. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are well established and have substantially greater financial, research and development, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. Some of our competitors and potential competitors are much larger than we are. If these larger competitors decide to focus on the development of distributed power and power quality products, they have the manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities to complete research, development and commercialization of these products more quickly and effectively than we can. There can also be no assurance that current and future competitors will not develop new or enhanced technologies perceived to be superior to those sold or developed by us. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in this competitive environment. We are dependent on third-party suppliers for the supply of key components for our products. We use third-party suppliers for components in many of our systems. From time to time, shipments can be delayed because of industry-wide or other shortages of necessary materials and components from third-party suppliers. A supplier's failure to supply components in a timely manner, or to supply components that meet our quality, quantity or cost requirements, or our inability to obtain substitute sources of these components on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us, could impair our ability to deliver our products in accordance with contractual obligations. We are in the process of establishing a contract manufacturing relationship with a Chinese supplier for certain of our inverter products. We are in the process of commencing a contract manufacturing relationship with a supplier in Asia for the manufacture of certain of our inverters as a means of reducing our costs and increasing the quality for those products, thereby enabling us to maintain a competitive advantage in the marketplace for these products. Our Asian partner, working closely with us, will in turn be developing a common Asian supply chain for the components that are incorporated into our inverters. While we believe that our Asian contract manufacturer is qualified to manufacture these inverters for us, we may need to address short-term quality and delivery scheduling issues as we develop this new supply chain for these inverters. If we were to encounter significant quality or delivery schedule concerns it might materially and adversely affect our relationships with customers for these inverters and our results of operations. If we experience a period of significant growth or expansion, it could place a substantial strain on our resources. If our power control products are successful in achieving rapid market penetration, we may be required to deliver large volumes of technically complex products or components to our customers on a timely basis at reasonable costs to us. We have limited experience in ramping up our manufacturing capabilities to meet large-scale production requirements and delivering large volumes of our power 14 Table of Contents control products. If we were to commit to deliver large volumes of our power control products, we cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy large-scale commercial production on a timely and cost-effective basis or that such growth will not strain our operational, financial and technical resources. Our business could be subject to product liability claims. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims, which are inherent in the manufacturing, marketing and sale of our products, and we may face substantial liability for damages resulting from the faulty design or manufacture of products or improper use of products by end users. We currently maintain a moderate level of product liability insurance, and there can be no assurance that this insurance will provide sufficient coverage in the event of a claim. Also, we cannot predict whether we will be able to maintain such coverage on acceptable terms, if at all, or that a product liability claim would not harm our business or financial condition. In addition, negative publicity in connection with the faulty design or manufacture of our products would adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws that expose us to potential financial liability. Our operations are regulated under a number of federal, state and foreign environmental and safety laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the discharge or release of hazardous materials into the air and water as well as the handling, storage and disposal of these materials. These laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource, Conservation and Recovery Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as well as analogous state and foreign laws. Because we use hazardous materials in certain of our manufacturing processes, we are required to comply with these environmental laws. In addition, because we generate hazardous wastes, we, along with any other person who arranges for the disposal of our wastes, may be subject to potential financial exposure for costs associated with an investigation and remediation of sites at which we have arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes if those sites become contaminated and even if we fully comply with applicable environmental laws. If we were found to be a responsible party, we could be held jointly and severably liable for the costs of remedial actions. To date, we have not been cited for any improper discharge or release of hazardous materials. Businesses and consumers might not adopt alternative energy solutions as a means for obtaining their electricity and power needs. On-site distributed power generation solutions, such as fuel cell, photovoltaic and wind turbine systems, which utilize our products, provide an alternative means for obtaining electricity and are relatively new methods of obtaining electrical power that businesses may not adopt at levels sufficient to grow this part of our business. Traditional electricity distribution is based on the regulated industry model whereby businesses and consumers obtain their electricity from a government regulated utility. For alternative methods of distributed power to succeed, businesses and consumers must adopt new purchasing practices and must be willing to rely upon less traditional means of purchasing electricity. We cannot assure you that businesses and consumers will choose to utilize on-site distributed power at levels sufficient to sustain our business in this area. The development of a mass market for our products may be impacted by many factors which are out of our control, including: •market acceptance of fuel cell, photovoltaic and wind turbine systems that incorporate our products; •the cost competitiveness of these systems; •regulatory requirements; and •the emergence of newer, more competitive technologies and products. 15 Table of Contents If a mass market fails to develop or develops more slowly than we anticipate, we may be unable to recover the losses we will have incurred to develop these products. Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuations, and if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our share price may decrease significantly. Our annual and quarterly results may vary significantly depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control. Because our operating expenses are based on anticipated revenue levels, our sales cycle for development work is relatively long and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed for the short term, a small variation in the timing of recognition of revenue can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. If our earnings do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our stock could decline. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay, deter or prevent the acquisition of Satcon, which could decrease the value of your shares. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of Satcon or a change in our management that you, as a stockholder, may consider favorable. These provisions include: •authorizing the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and deter a takeover attempt; •a board of directors with staggered, three-year terms, which may lengthen the time required to gain control of our board of directors; •prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; and •limitations on who may call special meetings of stockholders. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law and provisions in some of our stock incentive plans may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of Satcon. Those provisions serve to limit the circumstances in which a premium may be paid for our common stock in proposed transactions, or where a proxy contest for control of our board may be initiated. If a change of control or change in management is delayed, deterred or prevented, the market price of our common stock could suffer. We are subject to stringent export laws and risks inherent in international operations. We market and sell our products and services both inside and outside the United States. We are currently selling our products and services throughout North America and in certain countries in South America, Asia and Europe. Certain of our products are subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) 22 U.S.C 2778, which restricts the export of information and material that may be used for military or intelligence applications by a foreign person. Additionally, certain products of ours are subject to export regulations administered by the Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry Security, which require that we obtain an export license before we can export certain products or technology. Failure to comply with these laws could result in enforcement responses by the government, including substantial monetary penalties, denial of export privileges, debarment from government contracts and possible criminal sanctions. Revenue from sales to our international customers for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were approximately $13.0 million, $7.9 million and $6.6 million, respectively. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to expand our market for our products and services to foreign customers and our ability to manufacture products that meet foreign regulatory and commercial 16 Table of Contents requirements. We have limited experience developing and manufacturing our products to comply with the commercial and legal requirements of international markets. We face numerous challenges in penetrating international markets, including unforeseen changes in regulatory requirements, export restrictions, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, longer accounts receivable cycles, difficulties in managing international operations, and the challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. We are exposed to credit risks with respect to some of our customers. To the extent our customers do not advance us sufficient funds to finance our costs during the execution phase of our contracts, we are exposed to the risk that they will be unable to accept delivery or that they will be unable to make payment at the time of delivery. Occasionally, we accept the risk of dealing with thinly financed entities. In addition, the parent of one of our customers has filed for bankruptcy. To date, we have never received any orders from this customer but there can be no assurance that the bankruptcy filing will not impact the availability of credit to that customer or the submission of potential orders to us. We attempt to mitigate this risk by seeking to negotiate more timely progress payments and utilizing other risk management procedures. Our loan agreement with Silicon Valley Bank subjects us to various restrictions, which may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Our loan agreement with Silicon Valley Bank subjects us to various restrictions on our ability to engage in certain activities without the prior written consent of the bank, including, among other things, our ability to: •dispose of or encumber assets, other than in the ordinary course of business, •incur additional indebtedness, •merge or consolidate with other entities, or acquire other businesses, and •make investments The agreement also subjects us to various financial and other covenants with which we must comply on an ongoing or periodic basis. The financial covenant requires us to maintain a minimum level of tangible net worth, as defined, which varies from month to month. If we violate this or any other covenant, any outstanding debt under this agreement could become immediately due and payable, the bank could proceed against any collateral securing indebtedness and our ability to borrow funds in the future may be restricted or eliminated. These restrictions may also limit our ability to pursue business opportunities or strategies that we would otherwise consider to be in the best interests of the Company. The holders of our certain of our outstanding warrants have the right to put those warrants to us for cash if we issue common stock or common stock equivalents at a price per share less than $1.65. As of February 28, 2010, we had outstanding Warrant As to purchase up to an aggregate of 2,005,911 shares of common stock and Warrant Cs to purchase up to an aggregate of 946,971shares of common stock. The holder of those warrants may put those warrants to us for a cash amount equal to their Black-Scholes value if we issue common stock or common stock equivalents at a price per share less than $1.65, subject to certain exceptions. These rights are exercisable for the 45-day period following any such issuance. The existence of these rights could limit our ability to raise necessary capital in the future. Furthermore, the exercise of these rights could materially impact our capital resources and materially affect our ability to fund operations. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Private Placement of Series C Preferred Stock and Related Warrants The holders of our Series C Preferred Stock are entitled to receive liquidation payments in preference to the holders of our common stock. As of February 28, 2010, 25,000 shares of our Series C Preferred Stock were outstanding. Upon a liquidation of our company, the holders of shares of Series C Preferred Stock are entitled to receive a liquidation payment prior to the payment of any amount with respect to the shares of our common stock. The amount of this preferential liquidation payment is the greater of (i) $1,000 per share of Series C Preferred Stock, plus the amount of any accrued but unpaid dividends on those shares, or (ii) the amount per share that a holder would have received if, immediately prior to the liquidation, that holder's share had been converted to our common stock. Dividends accrue on the shares of Series C Preferred Stock at a rate of 5% per annum. Because of the substantial liquidation preference to which the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock are entitled, the amount available to be distributed to the holders of our common stock upon a liquidation of our company could be substantially limited or reduced to zero. We are responsible for having the resale of shares of common stock underlying the Series C Preferred Stock and related warrants registered with the SEC within defined time periods and will incur liquidated damages if the shares are not registered with the SEC within those defined time periods. Pursuant to our agreement with the investors in the Series C Preferred Stock financing transaction, we were obligated to (i) file a registration statement covering the resale of the common stock underlying the Series C Preferred Stock and related warrants with the SEC by the earlier of (x) five business days after we filed our 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K and (y) April 7, 2008 (which we satisfied), (ii) use our best efforts to cause the registration statement to be declared effective within 60 days following the required filing date (which we satisfied), and are required to (iii) use our best efforts to keep the registration statement effective until the earlier of (x) the date all of the securities covered by the registration statement have been publicly sold and (y) the date all of the securities covered by the registration statement may be sold without restriction under SEC Rule 144. If we fail to comply with these or certain other provisions, then we will be required to pay liquidated damages of one twentieth of a percent (.05%) of the aggregate purchase price paid by the investors for the securities that can be registered on the registration statement for each day the failure continues. The total liquidated damages under this provision are capped at 9.9% of the aggregate purchase price paid by the investors in the private placement. Any such payments could materially affect our ability to fund operations. The certificate of designation governing the Series C Preferred Stock contains various covenants and restrictions which may limit our ability to operate our business. Under the certificate of designation governing the Series C Preferred Stock we are not permitted, without the affirmative vote or written consent of the holders of 50% of the Series C Preferred Stock, directly or indirectly, to take any of the following actions or agree to take any of the following actions: •authorize, create or issue any shares of preferred stock or other equity securities ranking senior to or on a parity with the Series C Preferred Stock; •increase or decrease the total number of authorized shares of Series C Preferred Stock; •amend or modify our certificate of incorporation (including the certificate of designation governing the Series C Preferred Stock) or bylaws that would adversely affect the rights, preferences, powers and privileges of the Series C Preferred Stock; •incur any form of indebtedness for borrowed money in excess of $5,000,000 in the aggregate (other than indebtedness existing at November 8, 2007); 18 Table of Contents •repurchase or redeem any equity securities ranking junior to the Series C Preferred Stock, subject to certain exceptions; •effect any distribution or declare, pay or set aside any dividend with respect to any equity securities ranking junior to the Series C Preferred Stock; •effect a liquidation, consummate a reorganization event or dispose, transfer or license any material assets, technology or intellectual property, other than non-exclusive licenses in connection with sales of our products in the ordinary course of business; •change the size of our board of directors; •encumber or grant a security interest in all or substantially all or a material part of our assets except to secure indebtedness permitted above that is approved by our board of directors; •acquire a material amount of assets of another entity, through a merger, purchase of assets or purchase of capital stock or otherwise; or •enter into any agreement to do or cause to be done any of the foregoing. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise restrict corporate activities, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. The holders of the Series C Preferred Stock will have substantial voting power on matters submitted to a vote of stockholders. Generally, the holders of Series C Preferred Stock are entitled to vote on all matters on which the holders of our common stock are entitled to vote, voting together with the holders of our common stock as a single class. Each share of Series C Preferred Stock is entitled to 694 votes. Based on 71,001,440 shares of common stock outstanding as of February 28, 2010, the outstanding shares of Series C Preferred Stock represent, in the aggregate, 19.6% of the voting power of our stock. The voting percentage held by the investors would increase to the extent the shares of Series C Preferred Stock are converted or the warrants issued in the private placement are exercised. Because the investors will own a significant percentage of our voting power, they may have considerable influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and approval of merger, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, the ownership by the investors of a substantial percentage of our total voting power and the terms of the Series C convertible preferred stock could make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a change of control of our company, even if a change of control would generally be beneficial to our stockholders. The Series C Preferred Stock is redeemable at the option of the holders under certain circumstances. On or after November 8, 2011, the holders of two-thirds of the outstanding shares of Series C Preferred Stock may require us to redeem all or any portion of the outstanding shares of Series C Preferred Stock. The redemption price is equal to 120% of the stated liquidation preference amount, to the extent that the redemption is made in cash, or 140% of the stated liquidation preference amount to the extent that, at our election, the redemption is made in shares of our common stock. If the redemption is made in shares of common stock, the shares will be based on the fair market value of the common stock, based on a 10 day volume weighted average, as of the redemption date. Depending on our cash resources at the time that this redemption right is exercised, we may or may not be able to fund the redemption from our available cash resources. If we were unable to fund the redemption from available cash we would need to find an alternative source of financing to do so. The can be no 19 Table of Contents assurances that we would be able to raise such funds if they are required. If we were not able to finance the redemption in cash, we would have to make the redemption payment in shares of our common stock which would be dilutive to our common stockholders. The investors in our private placement of Series C Preferred Stock will have the right to designate up to four individuals to be elected to our board of directors. In the purchase agreement, we agreed that for as long as each investor beneficially owns at least 25% of the Series C Preferred Stock and warrants issued to them in the private placement, each investor would be entitled to designate one individual to be nominated to our board of directors. We also agreed that as long as either investor or both investors beneficially owns at least 25% of the Series C Preferred Stock and warrants issued to them in the private placement, we would include one investor designee in the corporate governance and nominating committee and one investor designee on the compensation committee of our board of directors. Upon the first closing, our board of directors elected Philip J. Deutch, as the designee of NGP Energy Technology Partners, L.P., and David J. Prend, as the designee of RockPort Capital Partners II, L.P., to serve on our board. Upon the second closing, as required under the purchase agreement, our board of directors was reduced from nine directors to seven directors, and the investors jointly had the right to designate one additional director who is "independent" (as that term is defined in the regulations of the Nasdaq Stock Market) to serve as a director. Accordingly, effective as of the second closing, three existing directors resigned and the board duly appointed Robert G. Schoenberger, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Unitil Corporation, as the investors' additional independent designee. However, in the event the size of our board of directors is increased to nine members in order to comply with Nasdaq rules, the investors will be entitled to designate an additional independent director. The number of investor designees will be appropriately adjusted to the extent required by the applicable rules of Nasdaq. Because the holders of Series C Preferred Stock will have the right to designate these members to our board of directors, as well as designees to serve on our board committees, they will be able to exert considerable influence over the board level decision-making at our company. The Series C Preferred Stock private placement had a substantial dilutive effect on our common stock, and subsequent anti-dilution adjustments could increase the dilutive effect. Consummation of the private placement had a substantial dilutive effect on our common stockholders. The aggregate number of shares issued pursuant to the private placement substantially increased the number of shares of our capital stock outstanding on an as converted basis. As a result, the percentage ownership of our common stockholders significantly declined as a result of the private placement. As a result of the private placement, the investors own approximately 46.77% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock, on an as converted basis assuming conversion of all the shares of Series C Preferred Stock and exercise of all warrants (excluding the additional warrants that may be issued from time to time upon the exercise of certain existing warrants). Furthermore, the anti-dilution protection provided to both the Series C Preferred stock and the warrants could substantially increase the number of shares of our common stock currently outstanding. Upon a dilutive issuance, the conversion price or exercise price will be adjusted down and the number of shares issuable upon conversion or exercise of the Series C Preferred Stock and warrants will increase. Accordingly, if any shares of our capital stock are issued below the current conversion price, there will be additional dilution. Finally, sales in the public market of the common stock acquired upon conversion of the Series C Preferred Stock or exercise of the warrants, or the perception that such sales could occur, could 20 Table of Contents adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise funds in additional stock financings. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 