Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below may materially impact your investment in our company or may in the future, and, in some cases already do, materially affect us and our business, financial condition and results of operations. You should carefully consider these factors with respect to your investment in our securities. This section includes or refers to certain forward-looking statements; you should read the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on such forward-looking statements beginning on pages 4 of this report. We have a history of operating losses, may not be able to achieve profitability and may require additional capital in order to sustain our businesses. For each of the past ten fiscal years, we have experienced losses from operating our businesses. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $326.9 million. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we had a loss from continuing operations of approximately $83.4 million. If we are unable to operate on a cash flow breakeven basis in the future, we may need to raise additional capital in order to sustain our operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve such results or to raise such funds if they are required. If our common stock continues to trade below $1.00, our stock could be delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market. If delisting occurs, it would adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and harm our business. Our common stock is currently traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol "SATC." If we fail to meet any of the continued listing standards of the Nasdaq Stock Market, our common stock could be delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market. On December 20, 2011, we received a notice from Nasdaq advising us that for 30 consecutive trading days preceding the date of the letter, the bid price of our common stock had closed below the $1.00 per share minimum required for continued listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market pursuant to Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 5550(a)(2) (the "Minimum Bid Price Rule"). The notice also stated that, pursuant to Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we have been provided 180 calendar days, or until June 18, 2012, to regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule. To do so, the bid price of the our common stock must close at or above $1.00 per share for a minimum of 10 consecutive trading days prior to that date. 12 Table of Contents If compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule cannot be demonstrated by June 18, 2012 and, except for the bid price requirement, we meet all other initial listing standards for The Nasdaq Capital Market set forth in Marketplace Rule 5505, then we may be granted an additional 180 calendar day period in which to demonstrate compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule. If we do not regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule prior to June 18, 2012 and are not eligible for the additional compliance period, then Nasdaq will notify us that our common stock is subject to delisting. At that time, we may appeal Nasdaq's delisting determination to a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel. We intend to actively monitor the bid price for its common stock between now and June 18, 2012, and will consider available options to resolve the deficiency and regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to comply with the Minimum Bid Price Rule and, therefore, may lose our eligibility for quotation on The Nasdaq Stock Market. Any delisting could adversely affect the market price of and liquidity of the trading market for our common stock, our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of its operations and could result in the loss of confidence by investors, suppliers and employees, and also constitute an event of default under some of our debt obligations. We could issue additional common stock, which might dilute the book value of our common stock. We have authorized 200,000,000 shares of our common stock, of which 121,803,656 shares were issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2011. Our board of directors has the authority, without action or vote of our stockholders in most cases, to issue all or a part of any authorized but unissued shares. Such stock issuances may be made at a price that reflects a discount from the then-current trading price of our common stock. In addition, in order to raise the capital that we may need at today's stock prices, we may need to issue securities that are convertible into or exercisable for a significant amount of our common stock. These issuances would dilute your percentage ownership interest, which would have the effect of reducing your influence on matters on which our stockholders vote, and might dilute the book value of our common stock. You may incur additional dilution of net tangible book value if holders of stock options, whether currently outstanding or subsequently granted, exercise their options or if warrant holders exercise their warrants to purchase shares of our common stock, as well as in connection with the conversion of our subordinated convertible note. See "The conversion of the subordinated convertible note may result in significant dilution" below. The sale or issuance of a large number of shares of our common stock could depress our stock price. As of March 1, 2012, we have reserved 29,655,854 shares of common stock for issuance upon exercise of stock options and warrants and 4,421,107 shares for future issuances under our stock plans. In addition, as of March 1, 2012, we have reserved 22,782,326 shares of common stock for issuance upon conversion of our subordinated note. As of March 1, 2012, holders of warrants and options to purchase an aggregate of 15,442,350 shares of our common stock may exercise those securities and transfer the underlying common stock at any time subject, in some cases, to Rule 144. In addition, the shares issuable upon conversion of our subordinated convertible note have been registered for resale and may be sold immediately upon issuance. See "The conversion of the subordinated convertible note may result in significant dilution" below. The execution of our growth strategy is dependent upon the continued availability of third-party financing arrangements for our customers, and is affected by general economic conditions. The recent recessionary condition of the general economy and limited availability of credit and liquidity could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Many purchasers of our inverters and other products require financing from third-parties to finance their operations. Given the recent recession and the restricted credit markets, certain of our customers may be unable or 13 Table of Contents unwilling to finance the cost to purchase our products or may be forced to cancel previously submitted orders or delay taking shipment until suitable credit is again available. Collecting payment from customers facing liquidity challenges may also be difficult. These factors could materially and adversely affect our anticipated revenue and growth and, accordingly, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as required by Rule 13a-15 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. As disclosed in Item 9A, management identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting related to our financial close process and our procure to pay cycle. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of these material weaknesses, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria set forth by the Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. As discussed in Item 9A, we are actively engaged in developing and implementing remediation plans designed to address these material weaknesses, however the material weaknesses will not be remediated until the necessary controls have been implemented and are determined to be operating effectively. We do not know the specific time frame needed to fully remediate the material weakness identified. We cannot assure you that our efforts to fully remediate this internal control weakness will be successful or that similar material weaknesses will not recur. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weaknesses, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may distract our officers and employees, entail substantial costs to implement new processes and modify our existing processes and take significant time to complete. Moreover, these changes do not guarantee that we will be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy could increase our operating costs and harm our business. In addition, investors' perceptions that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements may harm our stock price and make it more difficult for us to effectively market and sell our products to new and existing customers. If we are unable to maintain our technological expertise in design and manufacturing processes, we will not be able to successfully compete. We believe that our future success will depend upon our ability to develop and provide innovative products that meet the changing needs of our customers. This requires that we successfully anticipate and respond to technological changes in design and manufacturing processes in a cost-effective and timely manner. As a result, we continually evaluate the advantages and feasibility of new product design and manufacturing processes. We cannot, however, assure you that our process improvement efforts will be successful. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of shifting customer demands or changing industry standards could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable, which would have a significant impact on our ability to generate revenue. Our future success will depend upon our ability to continue to develop and introduce a variety of new products and product enhancements to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. 14 Table of Contents We may experience delays in releasing new products and product enhancements in the future. Material delays in introducing new products or product enhancements may cause customers to forego purchases of our products and purchase those of our competitors. The U.S. government has certain rights relating to our intellectual property. Many of our patents are the result of inventions made under U.S. government-funded research and development programs. With respect to any invention made with government assistance, the government has a nonexclusive, nontransferable, irrevocable, paid-up license to use the technology or have the technology employed for or on behalf of the U.S. government throughout the world. Under certain conditions, the U.S. government also has "march-in rights," which enable the U.S. government to require us to grant a nonexclusive, partially exclusive, or exclusive license in any field of use to responsible applicants, upon terms that are reasonable under the circumstances. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to protect our patents and proprietary technology. As of March 1, 2012, we held approximately 45 U.S. patents and had 3 patent applications pending with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. The expiration dates of our patents range from 2012 to 2029, with the majority expiring after 2015. As a qualifying small business from our inception to date, we have retained commercial ownership rights to proprietary technology developed under various U.S. government contracts and grants. Our patent and trade secret rights are of significant importance to us and to our future prospects. Our ability to compete effectively against other companies in our industry will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and systems designs relating to our products. Although we have attempted to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, we do not know whether we have been or will be successful in doing so. Further, our competitors may independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. No assurance can be given as to the issuance of additional patents or, if so issued, as to their scope. Patents granted may not provide meaningful protection from competitors. Even if a competitor's products were to infringe patents owned by us, it would be costly for us to pursue our rights in an enforcement action and there can be no assurance that we would be successful in enforcing our intellectual property rights. Because we intend to enforce our patents, trademarks and copyrights and protect our trade secrets, we may be involved from time to time in litigation to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of these rights. This litigation could result in substantial costs to us and divert resources from operational goals. In addition, effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country where we operate or sell our products. In addition, certain of our customers may request that we provide them with assurances that elements of our intellectual property be available for their use in the event that we are prevented from satisfying our service and warranty obligations to them or their customers. We may not be able to maintain confidentiality of our proprietary knowledge. In addition to our patent rights, we also rely on treatment of our technology as trade secrets through confidentiality agreements, which all of our employees are required to sign, assigning to us all patent rights and other intellectual property developed by our employees during their employment with us. Our employees have also agreed not to disclose any trade secrets or confidential information without our prior written consent. We also rely on non-disclosure agreement to protect our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Our trade secrets may also be known without breach of these agreements or may be independently developed by competitors. Failure to maintain the proprietary nature of our 15 Table of Contents technology and information could harm our results of operations and financial condition by reducing or eliminating our technological advantages in the marketplace. Others may assert that our technology infringes their intellectual property rights. We believe that we do not infringe the proprietary rights of others and, to date, no third parties have asserted an infringement claim against us, but we may be subject to infringement claims in the future. The defense of any claims of infringement made against us by third parties could involve significant legal costs and require our management to divert time from our business operations. If we are unsuccessful in defending any claims of infringement, we may be forced to obtain licenses or to pay royalties to continue to use our technology. We may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we fail to obtain necessary licenses or other rights, or if these licenses are costly, our operating results may suffer either from reductions in revenues through our inability to serve customers or from increases in costs to license third-party technologies. Our success is dependent upon attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel and the loss of key personnel could significantly hurt our business. To achieve success, we must attract and retain highly qualified technical, operational and executive employees. The loss of the services of key employees or an inability to attract, train and retain qualified and skilled employees, specifically engineering, operations and business development personnel, could result in the loss of business or could otherwise negatively impact our ability to operate and grow our business successfully. We expect significant competition for our products and services. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are well established and have substantially greater financial, research and development, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. Some of our competitors and potential competitors are much larger than we are. If these larger competitors decide to focus on the development of distributed power and power quality products, they have the manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities to complete research, development and commercialization of these products more quickly and effectively than we can. There can also be no assurance that current and future competitors will not develop new or enhanced technologies perceived to be superior to those sold or developed by us. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in this competitive environment. We are dependent on third-party suppliers for the supply of key components for our products. We use third-party suppliers for components in many of our systems. From time to time, shipments can be delayed because of industry-wide or other shortages of necessary materials and components from third-party suppliers. A supplier's failure to supply components in a timely manner, or to supply components that meet our quality, quantity or cost requirements, or our inability to obtain substitute sources of these components on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us, could impair our ability to deliver our products in accordance with contractual obligations. Certain of our inverters are manufactured by a Chinese supplier pursuant to a manufacturing agreement. Certain of our inverters are manufactured by a supplier in Asia pursuant to a manufacturing agreement. We entered into the contract manufacturing relationship with the Asian supplier with an aim of reducing our costs and increasing the quality for the inverter products to be manufactured under the contract, thereby enabling us to maintain a competitive advantage in the marketplace for these products. Our Asian partner, working closely with us, has been developing a common Asian supply 16 Table of Contents chain for the components that are incorporated into our inverters. While our relationship with our Asian contract manufacturer has been satisfactory to date and we believe that our Asian contract manufacturer is qualified to manufacture these inverters for us, we may need to address short-term quality and delivery scheduling issues as we continue to develop this supply chain for these inverters. As a result of this relationship and other international operations, we face a number of risks, including: geographical concentration of our manufacturing, periodic health epidemic concerns, complexity of managing global operations, tariffs, duties and other trade barriers, differing legal systems, natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes, potential power disruption or loss affecting production, political and economic instability in China and foreign currency risk. If we were to encounter significant quality or delivery schedule concerns it might materially and adversely affect our relationships with customers for these inverters and our results of operations. If we experience a period of significant growth or expansion, it could place a substantial strain on our resources. If our power control products continue to be successful in achieving rapid market penetration, we may be required to deliver even large volumes of technically complex products or components to our customers on a timely basis at reasonable costs to us. We have limited experience in ramping up our manufacturing capabilities to meet large-scale production requirements and delivering large volumes of our power control products. If we were to commit to deliver large volumes of our power control products, we cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy large-scale commercial production on a timely and cost-effective basis or that such growth will not strain our operational, financial and technical resources. Our business could be subject to product liability claims. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims, which are inherent in the manufacturing, marketing and sale of our products, and we may face substantial liability for damages resulting from the faulty design or manufacture of products or improper use of products by end users. We currently maintain a moderate level of product liability insurance, and there can be no assurance that this insurance will provide sufficient coverage in the event of a claim. Also, we cannot predict whether we will be able to maintain such coverage on acceptable terms, if at all, or that a product liability claim would not harm our business or financial condition. In addition, negative publicity in connection with the faulty design or manufacture of our products would adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws that expose us to potential financial liability. Our operations are regulated under a number of federal, state and foreign environmental and safety laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the discharge or release of hazardous materials into the air and water as well as the handling, storage and disposal of these materials. These laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource, Conservation and Recovery Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as well as analogous state and foreign laws. Because we use hazardous materials in certain of our manufacturing processes, we are required to comply with these environmental laws. In addition, because we generate hazardous wastes, we, along with any other person who arranges for the disposal of our wastes, may be subject to potential financial exposure for costs associated with an investigation and remediation of sites at which we have arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes if those sites become contaminated and even if we fully comply with applicable environmental laws. If we were found to be a responsible party, we could be held jointly and severably liable for the costs of remedial actions. To date, we have not been cited for any improper discharge or release of hazardous materials. 17 Table of Contents Businesses and consumers might not adopt alternative energy solutions as a means for obtaining their electricity and power needs. On-site distributed power generation solutions, such as fuel cell, photovoltaic and wind turbine systems, which utilize our products, provide an alternative means for obtaining electricity and are relatively new methods of obtaining electrical power that businesses may not adopt at levels sufficient to grow this part of our business. Traditional electricity distribution is based on the regulated industry model whereby businesses and consumers obtain their electricity from a government regulated utility. For alternative methods of distributed power to succeed, businesses and consumers must adopt new purchasing practices and must be willing to rely upon less traditional means of purchasing electricity. We cannot assure you that businesses and consumers will choose to utilize on-site distributed power at levels sufficient to sustain our business in this area. The development of a mass market for our products may be impacted by many factors which are out of our control, including: •market acceptance of fuel cell, photovoltaic and wind turbine systems that incorporate our products; •the cost competitiveness of these systems; •regulatory requirements; and •the emergence of newer, more competitive technologies and products. If a mass market fails to develop or develops more slowly than we anticipate, we may be unable to recover the losses we will have incurred to develop these products. Reductions in government subsidies could impact revenue growth in the renewable energy markets. Various government subsidies, including feed-in tariffs, have been a significant driver in the growth of the renewable energy industry, with countries throughout the world providing incentives to spur adoption of renewable energy. While many countries are beginning to adopt feed-in tariffs and varying subsidies, others are re-evaluating the level of incentive they wish to provide or have proposed reductions to their feed-in tariffs. Any reduction in such subsidies could result in a decline in demand and price levels for renewable energy products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuations, and if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our share price may decrease significantly. Our annual and quarterly results may vary significantly depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control. Because our operating expenses are based on anticipated revenue levels, our sales cycle for development work is relatively long and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed for the short term, a small variation in the timing of recognition of revenue can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. If our earnings do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our stock could decline. Also, because our sales are primarily made on a purchase order basis, customers may generally cancel, reduce or postpone orders without penalty, resulting in reductions to our net sales and profitability. We may not be able to realize our deferred tax assets. At December 31, 2011, we had approximately $52.8 million of deferred tax assets against which we have recognized valuation allowances equal to the entire amount of such deferred tax assets. Losses for federal income tax purposes can generally be carried back two years and carried forward for a period of 20 years. In order to realize our net deferred tax assets, we must generate sufficient taxable income in such future years. 18 Table of Contents In addition, our ability to utilize net operating losses and certain other tax attributes ("NOLs") for federal and state income tax purposes would be limited if we were to experience an "ownership change," as determined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Section 382"). Generally, an "ownership change" relates to the cumulative change in ownership among stockholders with at least a 5% ownership interest in our common stock increase their ownership by more than 50% over a rolling three-year period. If an "ownership change" occurs, our ability to use the NOLs for income tax purposes could be limited substantially or lost altogether. This would significantly impair the value of our NOL asset and, as a result, have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. In January 2011, our board of directors adopted a stockholder rights agreement designed to protect our ability to use the NOLs for income tax purposes. However, the adoption of the stockholder rights agreement cannot guarantee complete protection against an "ownership change" and it remains possible that one may occur. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law and our NOL-related stockholders rights agreement may delay, deter or prevent the acquisition of Satcon, which could decrease the value of your shares. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of Satcon or a change in our management that you, as a stockholder, may consider favorable. These provisions include: •authorizing the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and deter a takeover attempt; •a board of directors with staggered, three-year terms, which may lengthen the time required to gain control of our board of directors; •prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; and •limitations on who may call special meetings of stockholders. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law and provisions in some of our stock incentive plans may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of Satcon. Those provisions serve to limit the circumstances in which a premium may be paid for our common stock in proposed transactions, or where a proxy contest for control of our board may be initiated. If a change of control or change in management is delayed, deterred or prevented, the market price of our common stock could suffer. We also have a stockholder rights plan designed to protect our ability to use our NOLs for federal and state income tax purposes. In general terms, the rights plan is intended to act as a deterrent to any person or group that acquires 4.99% or more of our common stock without approval of our board of directors by allowing other stockholders to acquire our equity securities at half of their fair value. The ownership limitations in the rights plan may have the effect of inhibiting or impeding a change in control. We are subject to stringent export laws and risks inherent in international operations. We market and sell our products and services both inside and outside the United States. We are currently selling our products and services throughout North America and in certain countries in South America, Asia and Europe. Certain of our products are subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) 22 U.S.C 2778, which restricts the export of information and material that may be used for military or intelligence applications by a foreign person. Additionally, certain products of ours 19 Table of Contents are subject to export regulations administered by the Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry Security, which require that we obtain an export license before we can export certain products or technology. Failure to comply with these laws could result in enforcement responses by the government, including substantial monetary penalties, denial of export privileges, debarment from government contracts and possible criminal sanctions. Revenue from sales to our international customers for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were approximately $50.3 million, $97.2 million and $12.8 million, respectively. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to expand our market for our products and services to foreign customers and our ability to manufacture products that meet foreign regulatory and commercial requirements. We have limited experience developing and manufacturing our products to comply with the commercial and legal requirements of international markets. We face numerous challenges in penetrating international markets, including unforeseen changes in regulatory requirements, export restrictions, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, longer accounts receivable cycles, difficulties in managing international operations, and the challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. We are exposed to credit risks with respect to some of our customers. To the extent our customers do not advance us sufficient funds to finance our costs during the execution phase of our contracts, we are exposed to the risk that they will be unable to accept delivery or that they will be unable to make payment at the time of delivery. Occasionally, we accept the risk of dealing with thinly financed entities. We attempt to mitigate this risk by seeking to negotiate more timely progress payments and utilizing other risk management procedures. Our loan agreement with Silicon Valley Bank subjects us to various restrictions, which may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Our loan agreement with Silicon Valley Bank subjects us to various restrictions on our ability to engage in certain activities without the prior written consent of the bank, including, among other things, our ability to: •dispose of or encumber assets, other than in the ordinary course of business, •incur additional indebtedness, •merge or consolidate with other entities, or acquire other businesses, and •make investments The agreement also subjects us to various financial and other covenants with which we must comply on an ongoing or periodic basis. The financial covenant requires us to maintain certain operating results net of capital expenditures, which varies from quarter to quarter. If we violate this or any other covenant, any outstanding debt under this agreement could become immediately due and payable, the bank could proceed against any collateral securing indebtedness and our ability to borrow funds in the future may be restricted or eliminated. These restrictions may also limit our ability to pursue business opportunities or strategies that we would otherwise consider to be in the best interests of the Company. Our subordinated debt agreement with Compass Horizon Funding Company LLC ("Compass Horizon") subjects us to various restrictions, which may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Our subordinated loan agreement with Compass Horizon subjects us to various restrictions on our ability to engage in certain activities without the prior written consent of the lender, including, among other things, our ability to dispose of or encumber certain assets, incur additional indebtedness, merge 20 Table of Contents or consolidate with other entities, or make investments. We originally incurred $12.0 million of debt under the subordinated debt agreement, of which $9.5 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2011. Beginning in March 2011 we were obligated to begin repaying the principal amount of the loan. Our ability to meet our debt obligations will depend upon future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. The holders of our certain of our outstanding warrants have the right to put those warrants to us for cash if we issue common stock or common stock equivalents at a price per share less than $1.65. As of March 1, 2012, we had outstanding Warrant As to purchase up to an aggregate of 556,061 shares of common stock and Warrant Cs to purchase up to an aggregate of 348,485 shares of common stock. The holder of those warrants may put those warrants to us for a cash amount equal to their Black-Scholes value if we issue common stock or common stock equivalents at a price per share less than $1.65, subject to certain exceptions. These rights are exercisable for the 45-day period following any such issuance. The existence of these rights could limit our ability to raise necessary capital in the future. Furthermore, the exercise of these rights could materially impact our capital resources and materially affect our ability to fund operations. We are responsible for maintaining the registration of the resale of shares of common stock issued upon conversion of our Series C Preferred Stock and related warrants with the SEC and will incur liquidated damages if we do not meet fulfill this obligation. Pursuant to our agreement with the investors in the Series C Preferred Stock financing transaction, we were obligated to file a registration statement covering the resale of the common stock underlying the Series C Preferred Stock and related warrants with the SEC and cause the registration statement to be declared effective, which we completed. We are further obligated to use our best efforts to keep the registration statement effective until the earlier of (i) the date all of the securities covered by the registration statement have been publicly sold and (ii) the date all of the securities covered by the registration statement may be sold without restriction under SEC Rule 144. If we fail to comply with these or certain other provisions, then we will be required to pay liquidated damages of one twentieth of a percent (.05%) of the aggregate purchase price paid by the investors for the securities that can be registered on the registration statement for each day the failure continues. The total liquidated damages under this provision are capped at 9.9% of the aggregate purchase price paid by the investors in the private placement. Any such payments could materially affect our ability to fund operations. As a result of the conversion of the Series C Preferred Stock, the former holders continue to have substantial voting power on matters submitted to our stockholders and to be able to exert considerable influence over the board level decision-making at our company. As a result of the conversion of the Series C Preferred Stock on October 27, 2010, the former holders of the Series C Preferred Stock hold approximately 23% of our outstanding common stock at December 31, 2011. In addition, such holders own warrants to acquire approximately 13,946,089 shares of our common stock. Because these holders continue to own a significant percentage of our voting power, they have considerable influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and approval of merger, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these holders continue to be entitled to designate members of our board of directors and designees to serve on our board committees, enabling them to exert considerable influence over the board level decision-making at our company. 21 Table of Contents Substantial leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flows. In connection with the sale of our subordinated convertible note in June 2011, we incurred new indebtedness of $16 million. As a result, as of December 31, 2011, we had an aggregate of approximately $59.1 million of outstanding debt under our existing senior credit facility, existing subordinated loan under the Compass Horizon debt agreement and the June 2011 subordinated convertible note. The degree to which we are leveraged could, among other things: •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our future cash flows from operations and other capital resources to debt service, to the extent we are unable to make payments of principal or interest on the subordinated convertible note in common stock, due to, among other things failure to satisfy the equity conditions that must be met to enable us to do so; •make it difficult for us to obtain necessary financing in the future for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes on favorable terms, if at all; •make it more difficult for us to be acquired; •make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures; and •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. We could be required to make substantial cash payments upon an event of default, our inability to issue shares of our common stock, or change of control under our subordinated convertible note. Our subordinated convertible note provide for events of default including, among others, payment defaults, cross-defaults, breaches of any representation, warranty or covenant that is not cured within the proper time periods, failure to perform certain required activities in a timely manner, our common stock no longer being listed on an eligible market and certain bankruptcy-type events involving us or any significant subsidiary. Upon an event of default, for which our being delisted would be one, the holder of the subordinated convertible note may elect to require us to redeem all or any portion of the outstanding principal amount of such note at a price equal to the greater of 120% of (i) such outstanding principal amount, plus all accrued but unpaid interest or (ii) the then value of the underlying common stock. Our pending delisting, if not solved, would result in a default under the subordinated note. In addition, under the terms of the subordinated convertible note, upon a change of control of our company, the holder of such note may elect to require us to redeem the note at a price equal to the greater of 120% of (i) such outstanding principal amount, plus all accrued but unpaid interest or (ii) the then value of the consideration to be received in connection with the change of control. The note is convertible into shares of our common stock at 18% discount to market (applicable to payments of installment amounts under the note) or an 8% discount to market (applicable to certain conversions of the note), but, in each case, no higher than $0.8381 per share, and contains certain limitations on the our ability to issue shares of common stock under the note, including that, absent stockholder approval, we may not issue shares of common stock under the note in excess of 19.99% of the Company's outstanding shares on the closing date of the private placement of the note (or 23,853,640 shares of common stock). This provision is meant to ensure compliance with Marketplace Rule 5635(d) (the "20% Rule") of The Nasdaq Stock Market. If the holder of the note optionally converts a portion of the note that would require us to issue shares in excess of the 20% Rule, and we cannot issue such shares due to lack of shareholder approval, we would be required to pay cash in exchange for such excess shares in an amount equal to the current market price of such shares. This 22 Table of Contents cash amount could be substantial and would likely be higher than the amount of the note being converted. If either an event of default or change of control occurs, or we are unable to issue shares under the note due to the 20% Rule, our available cash could be seriously depleted and our ability to fund operations could be materially harmed. We are responsible for maintaining the registration of the resale of shares of common stock underlying the subordinated convertible note issued in our June 2011 private placement and will incur liquidated damages if we do not fulfill this obligation. Pursuant to our agreement with the investor in the June 2011 private placement, we were obligated to file a registration statement covering the resale of the common stock underlying the securities issued in the private placement with the SEC and to use our reasonable best efforts to cause the registration statement to be declared effective, which we completed. We are also obligated to keep the registration statement effective until the earlier of (i) the date all of the securities covered by the registration statement may be sold without restriction under Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act and (ii) the date all of the securities covered by the registration statement have been sold. If we fail to comply with these or certain other provisions, then we will be required to pay liquidated damages of 1% of the then outstanding principal amount of the subordinated convertible note held by the investor for the initial occurrence of such failure and for each subsequent 30 day period the failure continues. Any such payments could materially affect our ability to fund operations. The agreements governing the subordinated convertible note contain various covenants and restrictions which may limit our ability to operate our business. The agreements governing the subordinated convertible note contain various covenants and restrictions, including, among others that for so long as the note is outstanding, we will not incur any indebtedness that is senior to, or on parity with, the note in right of payment, subject to limited exceptions for existing indebtedness. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise restrict corporate activities, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. The conversion of the subordinated convertible note may result in significant dilution. As of March 1, 2012, the outstanding principal balance of the subordinated convertible note was approximately $10.1 million and it accrues interest at a rate per annum equal to 7.0%. The holder of the note has the right to convert outstanding amounts under the note at conversion price equal to the lower of (1) the conversion price then in effect (currently $0.8381) and (2) with respect to a total of ten separate conversions, a price equal to 92% of the closing bid price of our common stock on the trading day immediately preceding the applicable conversion date. Principal and interest (each, an "installment amount") are payable monthly, and may be made in cash or, at our option if certain equity conditions are satisfied, in shares of our common stock. If all or any portion of an installment amount is paid in shares of common stock, the price per share ("Corporation Conversion Price") will be at the lower of (i) the conversion price then in effect and (ii) 82% of the arithmetic average of the volume weighted average price of our common stock for the ten consecutive trading days ending on the trading day immediately preceding the payment date (but in no event greater than the dollar volume weighted average price of the common stock on the trading day immediately preceding the payment date). In addition, the holder may, at its option, during the ten trading days immediately following each installment date, elect to have up to two additional installment amounts converted into common stock at a conversion price equal to the Corporation Conversion Price in effect for the immediately preceding installment payment date. Accordingly, the number of shares of our outstanding common stock would be significantly increased upon the conversion of the remaining outstanding principal of the note, or if 23 Table of Contents shares of common stock were issued as payment of interest and principal on the note. In the event of such conversions or interest and principal payments, there will be substantial dilution to our current stockholders. We have been named as a party to purported class action lawsuits and a purported shareholder derivative action, and we may be named in additional litigation, all of which could require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses. An unfavorable outcome in one or more of these lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As described in Item 3. "Legal Proceedings" of Part I of this report, purported class action complaints were filed in the U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts, in July 2011, alleging, among other things, that our company and certain of our officers violated the federal securities laws by issuing materially false and misleading statements. In addition, a purported shareholder derivative complaint was filed in the U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts, in August 2011 against certain of our officers and directors based on allegations substantially similar to those set forth in the purported class actions. Regardless of the merits, the expense of defending such litigation may have a substantial impact if our insurance carriers fail to cover the cost of the litigation, and the time required to defend the actions could divert management's attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 