Item 1A Risk Factors The following factors as well as factors described elsewhere in this Form 10-K or in other filings by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission, could adversely affect the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Other factors not presently known to us or that we presently believe are not material could also affect our business operations or financial results. The Company refers to itself as “we”, “our” or “us” in this section. Fruit and Vegetable Processing Risks Excess capacity in the fruit and vegetable industry has a downward impact on selling price. Our financial performance and growth are related to conditions in the United States’ fruit and vegetable processing industry which is a mature industry with a modest growth rate during the last 10 years. Our net sales are a function of product availability and market pricing. In the fruit and vegetable processing industry, product availability and market prices tend to have an inverse relationship: market prices tend to decrease as more product is available and to increase if less product is available. Product availability is a direct result of plantings, growing conditions, crop yields and inventory levels, all of which vary from year to year. Moreover, fruit and vegetable production outside the United States, particularly in Europe, Asia and South America, is increasing at a time when worldwide demand for certain products, such as peaches, is being impacted by the global economic slowdown. These factors may have a significant effect on supply and competition and create downward pressure on prices. In addition, market prices can be affected by the planting and inventory levels and individual pricing decisions of our competitors. Generally, market prices in the fruit and vegetable processing industry adjust more quickly to variations in product availability than an individual processor can adjust its cost structure; thus, in an oversupply situation, a processor’s margins likely will weaken. We typically have experienced lower margins during times of industry oversupply. In the past, the fruit and vegetable processing industry has been characterized by excess capacity, with resulting pressure on our prices and profit margins. We have closed processing plants in past years in response to the downward pressure on prices. There can be no assurance that our margins will improve in response to favorable market conditions or that we will be able to operate profitably during depressed market conditions. Growing cycles and adverse weather conditions may decrease our results from operations. Our operations are affected by the growing cycles of the fruits and vegetables we process. When the fruits and vegetables are ready to be picked, we must harvest and process them quickly or forego the opportunity to process fresh picked fruits and vegetables for an entire year. Most of our fruits and vegetables are grown by farmers under contract with us. Consequently, we must pay the contract grower for the fruits and vegetables even if we cannot or do not harvest or process them. Most of our production occurs during the second quarter (July through September) of our fiscal year, which corresponds with the quarter that the growing season ends for most of the produce processed by us. A majority of our sales occur during the third and fourth quarters of each fiscal year due to seasonal consumption patterns for our products. Accordingly, inventory levels are highest during the second and third quarters, and accounts receivable levels are highest during the third and fourth quarters. Net sales generated during our third and fourth fiscal quarters have a significant impact on our results of operations. Because of these seasonal fluctuations, the results of any particular quarter, particularly in the first half of our fiscal year, will not necessarily be indicative of results for the full year or for future years. 4 We set our planting schedules without knowing the effect of the weather on the crops or on the entire industry’s production. Weather conditions during the course of each fruit and vegetable crop’s growing season will affect the volume and growing time of that crop. As most of our vegetables are produced in more than one part of the U.S., this somewhat reduces the risk that our entire crop will be subject to disastrous weather. The upper Midwest is the primary growing region for the principal vegetables which we pack, namely peas, green beans and corn, and it is also a substantial source of our competitors’ vegetable production. California is the primary growing region for the fruits we pack, namely peaches, pears, apricots and grapes. The adverse effects of weather-related reduced production may be partially mitigated by higher selling prices for the fruits and vegetables which are produced. The commodity materials that we process or otherwise require are subject to price increases that could adversely affect our profitability. The materials that we use, such as fruits and vegetables, steel (used to make cans), ingredients and packaging materials as well as the electricity and natural gas used in our business, are commodities that may experience price volatility caused by external factors, including market fluctuations, availability, currency fluctuations and changes in governmental regulations and agricultural programs. For example, demand for corn has been significantly affected by U.S. governmental policies designed to encourage the production of ethanol, which is diverting acreage previously used for the production of food for human consumption. The Federal Farm Bill further restricts available acreage by prohibiting the planting of fruits and vegetables on “base” acres used for soybeans and field corn, although a trial program that reduces the impact of the prohibition may be helpful in increasing available acreage. General inventory positions of major commodities, such as field corn, soybeans and wheat, all commodities with which we must compete for acreage, can have dramatic effects on prices for those commodities, which can translate into similar swings in prices needed to be paid for our contracted commodities. These programs and other events can result in reduced supplies of these commodities, higher supply costs or interruptions in our production schedules. If prices of these commodities increase beyond what we can pass along to our customers, our operating income will decrease. Risks Associated With Our Operations The termination or non-renewal of the Alliance Agreement with GMOL could negatively affect our business and operations. We have an Alliance Agreement with GMOL, whereby we process canned and frozen vegetables for GMOL, primarily under the Green Giant brand name. GMOL continues to be responsible for all of the sales, marketing and customer service functions for the Green Giant products. General Mills, Inc. guarantees various GMOL financial obligations under the Alliance Agreement. The Alliance Agreement ends December 31, 2019 but may be extended indefinitely unless terminated by either party in accordance with the provisions of the Alliance Agreement. We are subject to extensive covenants in the Alliance Agreement with respect to quality and delivery of products, maintenance of the Alliance Agreement production plants and other standards of our performance. If we were to fail in our performance of these covenants, GMOL would be entitled to terminate the Alliance Agreement. Upon virtually all of the causes of termination enumerated in the Alliance Agreement, GMOL will acquire legal title to two production plants and certain of the other assets which we acquired under the Alliance Agreement and various financial adjustments between the parties will occur. If GMOL or the Company terminates the Alliance Agreement without cause, the terminating party must pay a substantial termination payment. Termination of the Alliance Agreement would, in most cases, entitle our principal lenders, including our long-term lenders, to declare a default under our loan agreements with them. The principal lenders have a security interest in certain payments that we receive from GMOL both during and upon termination of the Alliance Agreement. Unless we were to enter into a new substantial supply relationship with GMOL or another major vegetable marketer and acquire substantial production capacity to replace the GMOL production plants, any such termination would substantially reduce our sales and net income and the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We depend upon key customers. Our products are sold in a highly competitive marketplace, which includes increased concentration and a growing presence of large-format retailers and discounters. Dependence upon key customers could lead to increased pricing pressure by these customers. Green Giant products packed by us in fiscal years 2013 and 2012 constituted approximately 13% in both years, of our total sales. Our sales of Green Giant product and financial performance under the Alliance Agreement depend to a significant extent on our success in producing quality Green Giant vegetables at competitive costs and GMOL’s success in marketing the products produced by us. The ability of GMOL to successfully market these products will depend upon GMOL’s sales efforts as well as the factors described above under “Excess capacity in the fruit and vegetable industry has a downward impact on selling price.” We cannot give assurance as to the volume of GMOL’s sales and cannot control many of the key factors affecting that volume. Sales to GMOL declined $86 million, from $252 million to $166 million, between fiscal year 2003 and fiscal year 2013 based on changes in GMOL’s demand for the commodities we produce for them. Additionally, purchases by the United Sates Department of Agriculture (“USDA”) in fiscal year 2013 represented approximately 4% of our total sales. The purchase of our products by the USDA is done through the government’s competitive bid process. We bid on stated product requirements and needs as presented by the USDA and, if we are the successful bidder, we fulfill the contract and deliver the product. The government contracting process is complex and subject to numerous regulations and requirements. Failure by us to comply with the regulations and requirements for government contracts could jeopardize our ability to contract with the government and could result in reduced sales or prohibition on submitting bids to the USDA. The government procurement process could also change and result in our inability to meet the new requirements. Additionally, the government’s need for our products could decrease, which would result in reduced sales to the USDA. 5 If we lose a significant customer or if sales to a significant customer materially decrease, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If we do not maintain the market shares of our products, our business and revenues may be adversely affected. All of our products compete with those of other national and regional food processing companies under highly competitive conditions. The vegetable products which we sell under our own brand names not only compete with vegetable products produced by vegetable processing competitors, but also compete with products we produce and sell to other companies who market those products under their own brand names, such as the Green Giant vegetables we sell to GMOL under the Alliance Agreement and the fruits and vegetables we sell to various retail grocery chains which carry our customer’s own brand names. The customers who buy our products to sell under their own brand names control the marketing programs for those products. In recent years, many major retail food chains have been increasing their promotions, offerings and shelf space allocations for their own fruit and vegetable brands, to the detriment of fruit and vegetable brands owned by the processors, including our own brands. We cannot predict the pricing or promotional activities of our customers/competitors or whether they will have a negative effect on us. There are competitive pressures and other factors, which could cause our products to lose market share or result in significant price erosion that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in logistics and other transportation-related costs could materially adversely impact our results of operations. Our ability to competitively serve our customers depends on the availability of reliable and low-cost transportation. We use multiple forms of transportation to bring our products to market. They include trucks, intermodal, rail cars, and ships. Disruption to the timely supply of these services or increases in the cost of these services for any reason, including availability or cost of fuel, regulations affecting the industry, or labor shortages in the transportation industry, could have an adverse effect on our ability to serve our customers, and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are subject to product liability claims, we may incur significant and unexpected costs and our business reputation could be adversely affected. Food processors are subject to significant liability should the consumption of their products cause injury or illness. We work with regulators, the industry and suppliers to stay abreast of developments. A product liability judgment against us could also result in substantial and unexpected expenditures, affect consumer confidence in our products, and divert management’s attention from other responsibilities. Product liability claims may also lead to increased scrutiny by federal and state regulatory agencies and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, there can be no assurance that this level of coverage is adequate or that we will be able to continue to maintain our existing insurance or obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. A product recall or a partially or completely uninsured judgment against us could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We generate agricultural food processing wastes and are subject to substantial environmental regulation. As a food processor, we regularly dispose of produce wastes (silage) and processing water as well as materials used in plant operation and maintenance, and our plant boilers, which generate heat used in processing, produce generally small emissions into the air. These activities and operations are regulated by federal and state laws and the respective federal and state environmental agencies. Occasionally, we may be required to remediate conditions found by the regulators to be in violation of environmental law or to contribute to the cost of remediating waste disposal sites, which we neither owned nor operated, but in which, we and other companies deposited waste materials, usually through independent waste disposal companies. Future possible costs of environmental remediation, contributions and penalties could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our production capacity for certain products and commodities is concentrated in a limited number of facilities, exposing us to a material disruption in production in the event that a disaster strikes. We only have two plants that produce fruit products and one plant that produces pumpkin products. We have two plants that manufacture empty cans, one with substantially more capacity than the other, which are not interchangeable since each plant cannot necessarily produce all the can sizes needed. Although we maintain property and business interruption insurance coverage, there can be no assurance that this level of coverage is adequate in the event of a catastrophe or significant disruption at these or other Company facilities. If such an event occurs, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may undertake acquisitions or product innovations and may have difficulties integrating them or may not realize the anticipated benefits. In the future, we may undertake acquisitions of other businesses or introduce new products, although there can be no assurances that these will occur. Such undertakings involve numerous risks and significant investments. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and acquire acquisition candidates on favorable terms, to profitably manage or to successfully integrate future businesses it may acquire or new products it may introduce without substantial costs, delays or problems. Any of these outcomes could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon a seasonal workforce and our inability to hire sufficient employees may adversely affect our business. At the end of our 2013 fiscal year, we had approximately 3,500 employees of which 3,100 full time and 300 seasonal employees worked in food processing and 100 employees worked in other activities. During the peak summer harvest period, we hire approximately 6,700 seasonal employees to help process fruits and vegetables. Many of our processing operations are located in rural communities that may not have sufficient labor pools, requiring us to hire employees from other regions. An inability to hire and train sufficient employees during the critical harvest period could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 There may be increased governmental legislative and regulatory activity in reaction to consumer perception related to BPA. There has been increased state legislative activity to ban Bisphenol-A ("BPA") from food contact packaging. These legislative decisions are predominantly driven by consumer perception that BPA may be harmful. These actions have been taken despite the scientific evidence and general consensus of United States and international government agencies that BPA is safe and does not pose a risk to human health. The legislative actions combined with growing public perception about food safety may require us to change some of the materials used as linings in our packaging materials. Failure to do so could result in a loss of sales as well as loss in value of the inventory utilizing BPA containing materials. The Company, in collaboration with other can makers as well as enamel suppliers, has decided to aggressively work to find alternative materials for can linings not manufactured using BPA. However, commercially acceptable alternatives are not immediately available for some applications and there can be no assurance that these steps will be successful. The implementation of the Food Safety Modernization Act of 2011 may affect operations The Food Safety Modernization Act ("FSMA") was enacted with the goal of enabling the Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") to better protect public health by strengthening the food safety system. FSMA was designed to focus the efforts of FDA on preventing food safety problems rather than relying primarily on reacting to problems after they occur. The law also provides FDA with new enforcement authorities designed to achieve higher rates of compliance with prevention and risk-based food safety standards and to better respond to and contain problems when they do occur. The increased inspections, mandatory recall authority of the FDA, increased scrutiny of foreign sourced or supplied food products, and increased records access may have an impact on our business. As we are already in a highly regulated business, operating under the increased scrutiny of more FDA authority does not appear likely to negatively impact our business. The law also gives FDA important new tools to hold imported foods to the same standards as domestic foods. The Company’s results are dependent on successful marketplace initiatives and acceptance by consumers of the Company’s products. The Company’s product introductions and product improvements, along with its other marketplace initiatives, are designed to capitalize on new customer or consumer trends. The FDA recently issued a statement on sodium which referred to an Institute of Medicine statement that too much sodium is a major contributor to high blood pressure. Some of our products contain a moderate amount of sodium per recommended serving, which is based on consumer’s preferences for taste. In order to remain successful, the Company must anticipate and react to these new trends and develop new products or processes to address them. While the Company devotes significant resources to meeting this goal, we may not be successful in developing new products or processes, or our new products or processes may not be accepted by customers or consumers. New regulations related to “conflict minerals” may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used primarily in manufacturing our canned products. On August 22, 2012, the SEC adopted a new rule requiring disclosures of specified minerals, known as conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured by companies filing public reports. The new rule, which is effective for the 2013 calendar year and requires a disclosure report to be filed by May 31, 2014, will require companies to perform due diligence, disclose, and report whether such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo or an adjoining country. The new rule could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used primarily in the manufacture of our canned products, including tantalum, tin, gold, and tungsten. The number of suppliers, who provide conflict-free minerals in steel production, or other components, may be limited. In addition, there may be significant costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our canned products, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. Since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may hurt our business. In addition, we may encounter significant challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could place us, as well as our competitors, at a disadvantage if we are unable to do so. Financing Risks Global economic conditions may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unfavorable economic conditions, including the impact of recessions in the United States and throughout the world, may negatively affect our business and financial results. These economic conditions could negatively impact (i) consumer demand for our products, (ii) the mix of our products’ sales, (iii) our ability to collect accounts receivable on a timely basis, (iv) the ability of suppliers to provide the materials required in our operations and (v) our ability to obtain financing or to otherwise access the capital markets. The strength of the U.S. dollar versus other world currencies could result in increased competition from imported products and decreased sales to our international customers. A prolonged recession could result in decreased revenue, margins and earnings. Additionally, the economic situation could have an impact on our lenders or customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. The occurrence of any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to manage our working capital and our Revolver is critical to our success. As of March 31, 2013, we had approximately $270.2 million of total indebtedness, including various debt agreements and a $188.0 million outstanding balance on our $300.0 to $400.0 million revolving credit facility (“Revolver”). Scheduled debt service for fiscal 2014 is $40.2 million. The Company will evaluate its alternatives related to these payments. During our second and third fiscal quarters, our operations generally require more cash than is available from operations. In these circumstances, it is necessary to borrow under our Revolver. We renewed our Revolver during fiscal 2012 for five years so it now matures on July 20, 2016. Our ability to obtain financing in the future through credit facilities will be affected by several factors, including our creditworthiness, our ability to operate in a profitable manner and general market and credit conditions. Significant changes in our business or cash outflows from operations could create a need for additional working capital. An inability to obtain additional working capital on terms reasonably acceptable to us or access the Revolver would materially and adversely affect our operations. Additionally, if we need to use a portion of our cash flows to pay principal and interest on our debt, it will reduce the amount of money we have for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansions, acquisitions or general corporate or other business activities. 7 Failure to comply with the requirements of our debt agreements and Revolver could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our debt agreements and Revolver contain financial and other restrictive covenants which, among other things, limit our ability to borrow money, including with respect to the refinancing of existing indebtedness. These provisions may limit our ability to conduct our business, take advantage of business opportunities and respond to changing business, market and economic conditions. In addition, they may place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies that may be subject to fewer, if any, restrictions. Failure to comply with the requirements of our Revolver and debt agreements could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have pledged our accounts receivable, inventory and the capital stock or other ownership interests that we own in our subsidiaries to secure the credit facility. If a default occurred and was not cured, secured lenders could foreclose on this collateral. Risks Relating to Our Stock Our existing shareholders, if acting together, may be able to exert control over matters requiring shareholder approval. Holders of our Class B common stock are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of our Class A common stock are entitled to one-twentieth of a vote per share. In addition, holders of our 10% Cumulative Convertible Voting Preferred Stock, Series A, our 10% Cumulative Convertible Voting Preferred Stock, Series B and, solely with respect to the election of directors, our 6% Cumulative Voting Preferred Stock, which we refer to as our voting preferred stock, are entitled to one vote per share. As of March 31, 2013, holders of Class B common stock and voting preferred stock held 87.6% of the combined voting power of all shares of capital stock then outstanding and entitled to vote. These shareholders, if acting together, would be in a position to control the election of our directors and to effect or prevent certain corporate transactions that require majority or supermajority approval of the combined classes, including mergers and other business combinations. This may result in us taking corporate actions that you may not consider to be in your best interest and may affect the price of our common stock. As of March 31, 2013, our current executive officers and directors beneficially owned 10.4% of our outstanding shares of Class A common stock, 41.1% of our outstanding shares of Class B common stock and 82.4% of our voting preferred stock, or 49.4% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of capital stock. This concentration of voting power may inhibit changes in control of the Company and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that discourage corporate takeovers. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of the New York Business Corporation Law may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. Various provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may inhibit changes in control not approved by our directors and may have the effect of depriving shareholders of any opportunity to receive a premium over the prevailing market price of our common stock in the event of an attempted unsolicited takeover. In addition, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. These provisions include: · a classified board of directors; · a requirement that special meetings of shareholders be called only by our directors or holders of 25% of the voting power of all shares outstanding and entitled to vote at the meeting; · our board of directors has the power to classify and reclassify any of our unissued shares of capital stock into shares of capital stock with such preferences, rights, powers and restrictions as the board of directors may determine; · the affirmative vote of two thirds of the shares present and entitled to vote is required to amend our bylaws or remove a director; and · under the New York Business Corporation Law, in addition to certain restrictions which may apply to “business combinations” involving us and an “interested shareholder”, a plan for our merger or consolidation must be approved by two-thirds of the votes of all outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon. See “Our existing shareholders, if acting together, may be able to exert control over matters requiring shareholder approval.” We do not pay dividends on our common stock and do not expect to pay common dividends in the future. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock in more than 25 years and we have no intention to do so in the near future. In addition, payment of cash dividends on our common stock is not permitted by the terms of our revolving credit facility. Other Risks Tax legislation could impact future cash flows. 8 The Company uses the Last-In, First-Out (LIFO) method of inventory accounting. As of March 31, 2013, we had a LIFO reserve of $133.0 million which, at the U.S. corporate tax rate, represents approximately $46.6 million of income taxes, payment of which is delayed to future dates based upon changes in inventory costs. From time-to-time, discussions regarding changes in U.S. tax laws have included the potential of LIFO being repealed. Should LIFO be repealed, the $46.6 million of postponed taxes, plus any future benefit realized prior to the date of repeal, would likely have to be repaid over some period of time. Repayment of these postponed taxes will reduce the amount of cash that we would have available to fund our operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansions, acquisitions or general corporate or other business activities. This could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments The Company does not have any unresolved comments from the SEC staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 