Item 1A. Risk Factors Our future results remain difficult to predict and may be affected by a number of factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. These factors include business conditions within the distributed power, power quality, aerospace, transportation, industrial, utility, telecommunications, silicon wafer manufacturing, factory automation, aircraft and automotive industries and the world economies as a whole. Our revenue growth is dependent, in part, on technology developments and contract research and development for both the government and commercial sectors and no assurance can be given that we will continue to obtain such funds. In addition, our growth opportunities are dependent on our new products penetrating the distributed power, power quality, aerospace, transportation, industrial, utility, telecommunications, silicon wafer manufacturing, factory automation, aircraft and automotive markets. No assurance can be given that new products can be developed, or if developed, will be commercially viable; that competitors will not force prices to unacceptably low levels or take market share from us; or that we can achieve and maintain profitability in these or any new markets. Because of these and other factors, including, without limitation, the factors set forth below, past financial performance should not be considered an indicator of future performance. Investors should not use historical trends to anticipate future results and should be aware that the market price of our common stock experiences significant volatility. Risks Related to Our Company We have a history of operating losses, may not be able to achieve profitability and may require additional capital in order to sustain our businesses. For each of the past ten fiscal years, we have experienced losses from operating our businesses. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $159.0 million. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 we had a loss from operations of approximately $14.8 million. In July 2006, we sold senior secured convertible notes and related warrants for $12 million. The net proceeds of the sale were approximately $11 million, after deducting placement fees and other offering-related expenses. If, however, we are unable to operate on a cash flow breakeven basis in the future, we may need to raise additional capital in order to sustain our operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve such results or to raise such funds if they are required. 15 We may not be able to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, which are included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, contain an audit report from Vitale, Caturano and Company. The audit report contains a going concern qualification, which raises substantial doubt with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern. The receipt of a going concern qualification may create a concern among our current and future customers and vendors as to whether we will be able to fulfill our contractual obligations. We could issue additional common stock, which might dilute the book value of our common stock. We have authorized 100,000,000 shares of our common stock, of which 40,105,073 shares were issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2006. Our board of directors has the authority, without action or vote of our stockholders in most cases, to issue all or a part of any authorized but unissued shares. Such stock issuances may be made at a price that reflects a discount from the then-current trading price of our common stock. In addition, in order to raise the capital that we may need at today’s stock prices, we will need to issue securities that are convertible into or exercisable for a significant amount of our common stock. For example, in July 2006, we sold senior secured convertible notes and related warrants for $12 million. These issuances would dilute your percentage ownership interest, which will have the effect of reducing your influence on matters on which our stockholders vote, and might dilute the book value of our common stock. You may incur additional dilution of net tangible book value if holders of stock options, whether currently outstanding or subsequently granted, exercise their options or if warrant holders exercise their warrants to purchase shares of our common stock. The sale or issuance of a large number of shares of our common stock could depress our stock price. As of March 1, 2007, we have reserved 9,392,479 shares of common stock for issuance upon exercise of stock options and warrants, 1,207,536 shares for future issuances under our stock plans and 353,632 shares for future issuances as matching contributions under our 401(k) plan. We have also reserved 845,588 shares of common stock for issuance upon conversion of the outstanding Series B Preferred Stock, which can be converted at any time. In addition, we have reserved 6,969,697 shares of common stock for issuance upon conversion of the outstanding Notes, which can be converted at any time. Furthermore, because principal and interest may be paid in shares of common stock at a price per share equal to a 10% discount to a volume weighted average price preceding the payment date, a significantly larger number of shares of common stock may be issued under the Notes. As of December 31, 2006, holders of warrants and options to purchase an aggregate of 7,596,068 shares of our common stock may exercise those securities and transfer the underlying common stock at any time subject, in some cases, to Rule 144. We have not consistently complied with Nasdaq’s Marketplace Rules for continued listing, which exposes us to the risk of delisting from the Nasdaq Stock Market. As a result of our failure to comply with the continued listing requirements of The Nasdaq Global Market, on October 25, 2006 we transferred our securities to The Nasdaq Capital Market. However, if we fail to maintain compliance with the rules for continued listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market, including, without limitation, the minimum $1.00 bid price requirement, and our common stock is delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market, there could be a number of negative implications, including reduced liquidity in our common stock as a result of the loss of market efficiencies associated with The Nasdaq Capital Market, the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees, as well as the loss of analyst coverage and institutional investor interest, fewer business development opportunities and greater difficulty in obtaining financing. In addition, if our common stock does not remain listed on a U.S. national securities exchange, we may be required to repurchase our outstanding senior secured convertible notes at 16 a premium and/or incur liquidated damages. In that event, we would likely have significant limitations on our ability to raise capital, including capital necessary in order to fund the repurchase of the senior secured convertible notes or pay the liquidated damages. We expect to generate a significant portion of our future revenues from sales of our power control products and cannot assure market acceptance or commercial viability of our power control products. We intend to continue to expand development of our power control products. We cannot assure you that potential customers will select SatCon’s products to incorporate into their systems or that our customers’ products will realize market acceptance, that they will meet the technical demands of their end users or that they will offer cost-effective advantages over existing products. Our marketing efforts have included development contracts with several customers and the targeting of specific market segments for power and energy management systems. We cannot know if our commercial marketing efforts will be successful in the future. Additionally, we may not be able to develop competitive products, our products may not receive market acceptance, and we may not be able to compete profitably in this market, even if market acceptance is achieved. If our products do not gain market acceptance or achieve commercial viability, we will not attain our anticipated levels of profitability and growth. If we are unable to maintain our technological expertise in design and manufacturing processes, we will not be able to successfully compete. We believe that our future success will depend upon our ability to develop and provide products that meet the changing needs of our customers. This requires that we successfully anticipate and respond to technological changes in design and manufacturing processes in a cost-effective and timely manner. As a result, we continually evaluate the advantages and feasibility of new product design and manufacturing processes. We cannot, however, assure you that our process improvement efforts will be successful. The introduction of new products embodying new technologies and the emergence of shifting customer demands or changing industry standards could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable, which would have a significant impact on our ability to generate revenue. Our future success will depend upon our ability to continue to develop and introduce a variety of new products and product enhancements to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. We may experience delays in releasing new products and product enhancements in the future. Material delays in introducing new products or product enhancements may cause customers to forego purchases of our products and purchase those of our competitors. We are heavily dependent on contracts with the U.S. government and its agencies or from subcontracts with the U.S. government’s prime contractors for revenue to develop our products, and the loss of one or more of our government contracts could preclude us from achieving our anticipated levels of growth and revenues. Our ability to develop and market our products is dependent upon maintaining our U.S. government contract revenue and research grants. Many of our U.S. government contracts are funded incrementally on a year-to-year basis. Approximately 40% of our revenue during the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 was derived from government contracts and subcontracts. Changes in government policies, priorities or programs that result in budget reductions could cause the government to cancel existing contracts or eliminate follow-on phases in the future which would severely inhibit our ability to successfully complete the development and commercialization of our products. In addition, there can be no assurance that, once a government contract is completed, it will lead to follow-on contracts for additional research and development, prototype build and test or production. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that our U.S. government contracts or subcontracts will not be terminated or suspended in the future. In the event that any of our government contracts are terminated for cause, it could significantly affect our ability to 17 obtain future government contracts, which could seriously harm our ability to develop our technologies and products. Our contracts with the U.S. government are subject to audit by the Defense Contract Audit Agency and other agencies of the government, which may challenge our treatment of direct and indirect costs and reimbursements, resulting in a material adjustment and adverse impact on our financial condition. The accuracy and appropriateness of our direct and indirect costs and expenses under our contracts with the U.S. government are subject to extensive regulation and audit by the Defense Contract Audit Agency or by other appropriate agencies of the U.S. government. These agencies have the right to challenge our cost estimates or allocations with respect to any such contract. Additionally, substantial portions of the payments to us under U.S. government contracts are provisional payments that are subject to potential adjustment upon audit by such agencies. Adjustments that result from inquiries or audits of our contracts could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Since our inception, we have not experienced any material adjustments as a result of any inquiries or audits, but there can be no assurance that our contracts will not be subject to material adjustments in the future. The U.S. government has certain rights relating to our intellectual property. Many of our patents are the result of inventions made under U.S. government-funded research and development programs. With respect to any invention made with government assistance, the government has a nonexclusive, nontransferable, irrevocable, paid-up license to use the technology or have the technology employed for or on behalf of the U.S. government throughout the world. Under certain conditions, the U.S. government also has “march-in rights,” which enable the U.S. government to require us to grant a nonexclusive, partially exclusive, or exclusive license in any field of use to responsible applicants, upon terms that are reasonable under the circumstances. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to protect our patents and proprietary technology. As of March 1, 2007, we held approximately 68 U.S. patents and had 7 patent applications pending with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. We have also obtained corresponding patents in the rest of North America, Europe, and Asia for many of these patents. The expiration dates of our patents range from 2009 to 2021, with the majority expiring after 2015. As a qualifying small business from our inception to date, we have retained commercial ownership rights to proprietary technology developed under various U.S. government contracts and grants. Our patent and trade secret rights are of significant importance to us and to our future prospects. Our ability to compete effectively against other companies in our industry will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and systems designs relating to our products. Although we have attempted to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, we do not know whether we have been or will be successful in doing so. Further, our competitors may independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. No assurance can be given as to the issuance of additional patents or, if so issued, as to their scope. Patents granted may not provide meaningful protection from competitors. Even if a competitor’s products were to infringe patents owned by us, it would be costly for us to pursue our rights in an enforcement action and there can be no assurance that we would be successful in enforcing our intellectual property rights. Because we intend to enforce our patents, trademarks and copyrights and protect our trade secrets, we may be involved from time to time in litigation to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of these rights. This litigation could result in substantial costs to us and divert resources from operational goals. In addition, effective patent, trademark, service mark, 18 copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country where we operate or sell our products. We may not be able to maintain confidentiality of our proprietary knowledge. In addition to our patent rights, we also rely on treatment of our technology as trade secrets through confidentiality agreements, which all of our employees are required to sign, assigning to us all patent rights and other intellectual property developed by our employees during their employment with us. Our employees have also agreed not to disclose any trade secrets or confidential information without our prior written consent. We also rely on non-disclosure agreement to protect our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Our trade secrets may also be known without breach of these agreements or may be independently developed by competitors. Failure to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology and information could harm our results of operations and financial condition by reducing or eliminating our technological advantages in the marketplace. Others may assert that our technology infringes their intellectual property rights. We believe that we do not infringe the proprietary rights of others and, to date, no third parties have asserted an infringement claim against us, but we may be subject to infringement claims in the future. The defense of any claims of infringement made against us by third parties could involve significant legal costs and require our management to divert time from our business operations. If we are unsuccessful in defending any claims of infringement, we may be forced to obtain licenses or to pay royalties to continue to use our technology. We may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we fail to obtain necessary licenses or other rights, or if these licenses are costly, our operating results may suffer either from reductions in revenues through our inability to serve customers or from increases in costs to license third-party technologies. Our success is dependent upon attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel and the loss of key personnel could significantly hurt our business. To achieve success, we must attract and retain highly qualified technical, operational and executive employees. The loss of the services of key employees or an inability to attract, train and retain qualified and skilled employees, specifically engineering, operations and business development personnel, could result in the loss of business or could otherwise negatively impact our ability to operate and grow our business successfully. We expect significant competition for our products and services. In the past, we have faced limited competition in providing research services, prototype development and custom and limited quantity manufacturing. We expect competition to intensify greatly as commercial applications increase for our products under development. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are well established and have substantially greater financial, research and development, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. Some of our competitors and potential competitors are much larger than we are. If these larger competitors decide to focus on the development of distributed power and power quality products, they have the manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities to complete research, development and commercialization of these products more quickly and effectively than we can. There can also be no assurance that current and future competitors will not develop new or enhanced technologies perceived to be superior to those sold or developed by us. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in this competitive environment. 19 We are dependent on third-party suppliers for the supply of key components for our products. We use third-party suppliers for components in many of our systems. From time to time, shipments can be delayed because of industry-wide or other shortages of necessary materials and components from third-party suppliers. A supplier’s failure to supply components in a timely manner, or to supply components that meet our quality, quantity or cost requirements, or our inability to obtain substitute sources of these components on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us, could impair our ability to deliver our products in accordance with contractual obligations. On occasion, we agree to fixed price engineering contracts in our Applied Technology Division, which exposes us to losses. Most of our engineering design contracts are structured on a cost-plus basis. However, on occasion we have entered into fixed price contracts, which may expose us to loss. A fixed priced contract, by its very nature, requires cost estimates during the bidding process and throughout the contract, as the program proceeds to completion. Depending upon the complexity of the program, the estimated completion costs could change frequently and significantly during the course of the contract. We regularly involve the appropriate people on the program and finance staffs to arrive at a reasonable estimate of the cost to complete. However, due to unanticipated technical challenges and other factors, there is the potential for substantial cost overruns in order to complete the contract in accordance with the contract specifications. Currently we do not have any contracts of this type. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, we had recorded losses on these contracts of approximately $0.1 million related to a fixed price contract which was completed during the period. No other losses were recorded on these contracts during fiscal 2005 or 2006. If we experience a period of significant growth or expansion, it could place a substantial strain on our resources. If our power control products are successful in achieving rapid market penetration, we may be required to deliver large volumes of technically complex products or components to our customers on a timely basis at reasonable costs to us. We have limited experience in ramping up our manufacturing capabilities to meet large-scale production requirements and delivering large volumes of our power control products. If we were to commit to deliver large volumes of our power control products, we cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy large-scale commercial production on a timely and cost-effective basis or that such growth will not strain our operational, financial and technical resources. Our business could be subject to product liability claims. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims, which are inherent in the manufacturing, marketing and sale of our products, and we may face substantial liability for damages resulting from the faulty design or manufacture of products or improper use of products by end users. We currently maintain a moderate level of product liability insurance, and there can be no assurance that this insurance will provide sufficient coverage in the event of a claim. Also, we cannot predict whether we will be able to maintain such coverage on acceptable terms, if at all, or that a product liability claim would not harm our business or financial condition. In addition, negative publicity in connection with the faulty design or manufacture of our products would adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws that expose us to potential financial liability. Our operations are regulated under a number of federal, state and foreign environmental and safety laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the discharge or release of hazardous materials into the air and water as well as the handling, storage and disposal of these materials. These laws and 20 regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource, Conservation and Recovery Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as well as analogous state and foreign laws. Because we use hazardous materials in certain of our manufacturing processes, we are required to comply with these environmental laws. In addition, because we generate hazardous wastes, we, along with any other person who arranges for the disposal of our wastes, may be subject to potential financial exposure for costs associated with an investigation and remediation of sites at which we have arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes if those sites become contaminated and even if we fully comply with applicable environmental laws. If we were found to be a responsible party, we could be held jointly and severably liable for the costs of remedial actions. To date, we have not been cited for any improper discharge or release of hazardous materials. Businesses and consumers might not adopt alternative energy solutions as a means for obtaining their electricity and power needs. On-site distributed power generation solutions, such as fuel cell, photovoltaic and wind turbine systems, which utilize our products, provide an alternative means for obtaining electricity and are relatively new methods of obtaining electrical power that businesses may not adopt at levels sufficient to grow this part of our business. Traditional electricity distribution is based on the regulated industry model whereby businesses and consumers obtain their electricity from a government regulated utility. For alternative methods of distributed power to succeed, businesses and consumers must adopt new purchasing practices and must be willing to rely upon less upon traditional means of purchasing electricity. We cannot assure you that businesses and consumers will choose to utilize on-site distributed power at levels sufficient to sustain our business in this area. The development of a mass market for our products may be impacted by many factors which are out of our control, including: · market acceptance of fuel cell, photovoltaic and wind turbine systems that incorporate our products; · the cost competitiveness of these systems; · regulatory requirements; and · the emergence of newer, more competitive technologies and products. If a mass market fails to develop or develops more slowly than we anticipate, we may be unable to recover the losses we will have incurred to develop these products. Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuations, and if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our share price may decrease significantly. Our annual and quarterly results may vary significantly depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control. Because our operating expenses are based on anticipated revenue levels, our sales cycle for development work is relatively long and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed for the short term, a small variation in the timing of recognition of revenue can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. If our earnings do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our stock could decline. 21 Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay, deter or prevent the acquisition of SatCon, which could decrease the value of your shares. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of SatCon or a change in our management that you, as a stockholder, may consider favorable. These provisions include: · authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and deter a takeover attempt; · a board of directors with staggered, three-year terms, which may lengthen the time required to gain control of our board of directors; · prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; and · limitations on who may call special meetings of stockholders. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law and provisions in some of our stock incentive plans may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of SatCon. Those provisions serve to limit the circumstances in which a premium may be paid for our common stock in proposed transactions, or where a proxy contest for control of our board may be initiated. If a change of control or change in management is delayed, deterred or prevented, the market price of our common stock could suffer. We are subject to stringent export laws and risks inherent in international operations. We market and sell our products and services both inside and outside the United States. We are currently selling our products and services throughout North America and in certain countries in South America, Asia, Canada and Europe. Certain of our products are subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) 22 U.S.C 2778, which restricts the export of information and material that may be used for military or intelligence applications by a foreign person. Additionally, certain products of ours are subject to export regulations administered by the Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry Security, which require that we obtain an export license before we can export certain products or technology. Failure to comply with these laws could result in enforcement responses by the government, including substantial monetary penalties, denial of export privileges, debarment from government contracts and possible criminal sanctions. Revenue from sales to our international customers for the year ended December 31, 2006, the three month transition period ended December 31, 2005 and our fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, were approximately $3.3 million, $0.5 million and $3.4 million, respectively. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to expand our market for our products and services to foreign customers and our ability to manufacture products that meet foreign regulatory and commercial requirements. We have limited experience developing and manufacturing our products to comply with the commercial and legal requirements of international markets. We face numerous challenges in penetrating international markets, including unforeseen changes in regulatory requirements, export restrictions, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, longer accounts receivable cycles, difficulties in managing international operations, and the challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. We are exposed to credit risks with respect to some of our customers. To the extent our customers do not advance us sufficient funds to finance our costs during the execution phase of our contracts, we are exposed to the risk that they will be unable to accept delivery or that they will be unable to make payment at the time of delivery. Occasionally, we accept the risk of dealing with thinly financed entities. We attempt to mitigate this risk by seeking to negotiate more timely progress payments and utilizing other risk management procedures. 22 The holders of our Series B Preferred Stock are entitled to receive liquidation payments in preference to the holders of our common stock. As of March 1, 2007, 345 shares of our Series B Preferred Stock were outstanding. Pursuant to the terms of the certificate of designation creating the Series B Preferred Stock, upon a liquidation of our company, the holders of shares of the Series B Preferred Stock are entitled to receive a liquidation payment prior to the payment of any amount with respect to the shares of our common stock. The amount of this preferential liquidation payment is $5,000 per share of Series B Preferred Stock, plus the amount of any accrued but unpaid dividends on those shares. Prior to October 1, 2005, dividends accrued on the shares of Series B Preferred Stock at a rate of 6% per annum. On October 1, 2005, dividends began accruing on the Series B Preferred Stock at a rate of 8% per annum. Risks Related to Our Private Placement of Senior Secured Convertible Notes and Warrants Substantial leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flows. In connection with the sale of our senior secured convertible notes in July 2006, we incurred new indebtedness of $12 million (of which $11.5 million is out standing as of March 1, 2007). As a result of this indebtedness, our principal and interest payment obligations increased substantially. The degree to which we are leveraged could, among other things: · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our future cash flows from operations and other capital resources to debt service, to the extent we are unable to make payments of principal and interest in common stock, due to, among other things failure to satisfy the equity conditions that must be met to enable us to do so; · make it difficult for us to obtain necessary financing in the future for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes on favorable terms, if at all; · make it more difficult for us to be acquired; · make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures; and · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. We could be required to make substantial cash payments upon an event of default or change of control under our senior secured convertible notes and related warrants, and, because the notes are secured, holders of the notes could take action against our assets upon an event of default. Our senior secured convertible notes provide for events of default including, among others, payment defaults, cross-defaults, breaches of any representation, warranty or covenant that is not cured within the proper time periods, failure to perform certain required activities in a timely manner, our common stock no longer being listed on an eligible market, the effectiveness of the registration statement of which this prospectus is a part lapses beyond a specified period and certain bankruptcy-type events involving us or any significant subsidiary. Upon an event of default, the holders of the notes may elect to require us to repurchase all or any portion of the outstanding principal amount of the notes for a purchase price equal to the greater of (i) 115% of such outstanding principal amount, plus all accrued but unpaid interest or (ii) 115% of the then value of the underlying common stock. In addition, under the terms of the notes and warrants, upon a change of control of our company, (i) the holders of the notes may elect to require us to purchase the notes for 115% of the outstanding 23 principal amount plus any accrued and unpaid interest and (ii) the holders of the warrants may elect to require us to purchase the warrants for a purchase price equal to the Black-Scholes value of the remaining unexercised portion of each warrant. If either an event of default or change of control occurs, our available cash could be seriously depleted and our ability to fund operations could be materially harmed. Furthermore, because the notes are secured, if an event of default occurs, the holders of the notes may take action against our assets (including the stock of our subsidiaries) under the terms of a Security Agreement. We are responsible for having the resale of shares of common stock underlying the convertible notes and warrants issued in our July 2006 private placement registered with the SEC within defined time periods and will incur liquidated damages if the shares are not registered with the SEC within those defined time periods. Pursuant to our agreement with the investors in the July 2006 private placement, we were obligated to (i) file a registration statement covering the resale of the common stock underlying the securities issued in the private placement with the SEC within 30 days following the closing of the private placement (which we have satisfied), (ii) use our best efforts to cause the registration statement to be declared effective within 90 days following the closing of the private placement (which we have satisfied, as the registration statement was declared effective on September 27, 2006) and (iii) use our best efforts to keep the registration statement effective until the earlier of (x) the fifth anniversary of the effective date of the registration statement, (y) the date all of the securities covered by the registration statement have been publicly sold and (z) the date all of the securities covered by the registration statement may be sold without restriction under SEC Rule 144(k). If we fail to comply with these or certain other provisions, then we will be required to pay liquidated damages of 1% of the aggregate purchase price paid by the investors in the private placement for the initial occurrence of such failure and 1.5% of such amount for each subsequent 30 day period the failure continues. The total liquidated damages under this provision are capped at 24% of the aggregate purchase price paid by the investors in the private placement. Any such payments could materially affect our ability to fund operations. The agreements governing the senior secured convertible notes and related warrants contain various covenants and restrictions which may limit our ability to operate our business. The agreements governing the senior secured convertible notes and related warrants contain various covenants and restrictions, including, among others: · for so long as the notes are outstanding, the obligation that we offer to the holders the opportunity to participate in subsequent securities offerings (up to 50% of such offerings), subject to certain exceptions for, among other things, certain underwritten public offerings and strategic alliances; · for so long as the notes are outstanding, the obligation that we not incur any indebtedness that is senior to, or on parity with, the notes in right of payment, subject to limited exceptions for purchase money indebtedness and capital lease obligations; · for so long as the notes are outstanding, we must maintain aggregate cash and cash equivalents equal to the greater of (i) $1,000,000 or (ii) $3,000,000 minus 80% of eligible receivables; and · for so long as the notes and warrants are outstanding, we may not issue any common stock or common stock equivalents at a price per share less than the conversion price. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise restrict corporate activities, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. 24 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 