ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our company involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information included in this report, you should carefully consider each of the following risk factors in evaluating our business and prospects as well as an investment in our company. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. In that case the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should also refer to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. Our current cash and cash equivalents will fund our operations at current levels into November 2008. We need additional funding or we will be forced to liquidate assets and/or curtail or cease operations. Any additional funding may dilute your shares. If we are unable to raise additional funds for operations, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. We need immediate and substantial cash to continue our operations at current levels. We currently have no funding commitments. Management has projected that cash on hand will be sufficient to allow us to continue our operations at current levels into November 2008. We will need additional funding, either through debt or equity financings, or we will be forced to extend payment terms with vendors where possible, to liquidate certain assets where possible, and/or to suspend or curtail certain of our planned operations. Any of these actions could harm our business, results of operations and future prospects. We anticipate we will need to raise approximately $10.0 million of cash and cash equivalents in the next twelve months to fund our operations through fiscal 2009 at current levels. As a result of our need for additional financing and other factors, the report from our independent registered public accounting firm regarding our consolidated financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2008 includes an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Possible funding alternatives for raising working capital are bank or asset based financing options, equity-based financing, including convertible debt and factoring arrangements. We are in discussions with funding sources for each of these options, but we currently have no funding commitments. If we raise additional funds by selling additional shares of our capital stock, the ownership interest of our shareholders will be diluted. The amount of dilution could be increased by the issuance of warrants or securities with other dilutive characteristics, such as anti-dilution clauses or price resets. As of June 30, 2008, our other assets included $3.1 million of auction rate securities, which securities have a par value of $5.0 million. The auctions for these securities have failed since July 2007, which limits our ability to liquidate these securities and recover their carrying value in the near term. We may nonetheless attempt to liquidate these securities to meet cash needs. We cannot predict whether we will be able to liquidate these securities, and we expect that any liquidation in the near term will bring less than the value of these securities as of June 30, 2008, based upon indicative bids. For example, indicative bids (i.e., one measure of the estimated liquidation value) from Deutsche Bank subsequent to year-end for our ARS instruments have ranged from a high of approximately $2.8 million at July 16, 2008, to a low of approximately $1.4 million at October 1, 2008, the most recent bid as of the date of this report. You should review the additional information about our liquidity and capital resources in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this report. If we cease to continue as a going concern, due to lack of available capital or otherwise, you may lose your entire investment in our company. We have a history of net losses. We expect to continue to incur net losses for some time and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred significant operating losses in our last three fiscal years and we anticipate continued losses during fiscal 2009. At June 30, 2008 we had an accumulated deficit of $50.9 million. We need to generate additional revenue and improve our gross profit margins to be profitable in future periods. We may never return to profitability, or if we do, we may not be able to sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. 11 Our financial condition and the “going concern” opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm may negatively impact our business. As a result of our need for additional financing and other factors, the report from our independent registered public accounting firm regarding our consolidated financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2008 includes an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Such report, and our financial condition and history of net losses, could cause current or potential customers to defer new orders with us or select other vendors, and may cause suppliers to require terms that are unfavorable to us. We recorded an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of our auction rate securities and we may incur additional impairment charges with respect to auction rate securities in the future. Credit concerns in the capital markets have significantly reduced our ability to liquidate auction rate securities (ARS) that we classify as other assets on our balance sheet. As of June 30, 2008, we held two ARS instruments with a par value of $5.0 million. These securities are collateralized by corporate debt obligations. Due to the failed auctions for these auction rate securities since July 2007, we recorded other-than-temporary impairment charges of $1.9 million, which reduced the value of our auction rate securities to their estimated fair value of $3.1 million as of June 30, 2008. An auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell their securities could not do so. If we liquidate our auction rate securities or we determine that one or more of the assumptions used in estimating the fair value of our auction rate securities needs to be revised, we may be required to record additional impairments in future periods. As our revenue base continues to decline from our current operations, we may choose to exit or divest some or a substantial portion of our current operations to focus on fewer opportunities. Our management team continuously reviews and evaluates our product portfolio, operating structure and markets to determine the future viability of our existing products and market positions. We may determine that the infrastructure and expenses necessary to sustain an existing business or product offering are greater than the potential contribution margin that will be obtainable in the future. As a result, we may determine that it is in our interest to exit or divest one or more existing business or product offering. Such decisions could result in costs incurred for exit or disposal activities and/or impairments of long-lived assets. Moreover, if we do not identify other opportunities to replace discontinued products or operations, our revenues would decline, which could lead to further net losses and cause our stock price to decline. Our business has been highly dependent on sales to large OEM customers, and we are currently in the middle of a transition with our largest OEM customer. Hewlett-Packard Company (HP) has been our largest customer in recent periods, accounting for approximately 35.2%, 45.8% and 49.7% of sales in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. No other customer accounted for more than 10.0% of sales in any year during the three-year period ended June 30, 2008. Neither HP nor any other customer is obligated to purchase a specific amount of our products or provide binding forecasts of purchases for any period. In August 2005, we announced that HP had selected an alternate supplier for its next-generation mid-range tape automation product. HP began purchasing the first product of this new line from the alternate supplier during the first quarter of calendar year 2006. We expect HP to continue to purchase the tape automation products currently supplied by us for some time, but the new product will eventually replace a significant portion of those purchases. We cannot predict how quickly this transition will occur, but we believe the effect on our revenue during fiscal 2009 may be significant. We could incur charges for excess and obsolete inventory. The value of our inventory may be adversely affected by changes in technology that affect our ability to sell the products in our inventory. If we do not effectively forecast and manage our inventory, we may need to write off inventory as excess or obsolete, which in turn can adversely affect cost of sales and gross profit. We have previously experienced, and may in the future experience, reductions in sales of older generation products as customers delay or defer purchases in anticipation of new product introductions. We currently have established reserves for slow moving or obsolete inventory. The reserves we have established for potential losses due to obsolete inventory may, however, prove to be inadequate and may give rise to additional charges for excess or obsolete inventory. 12 If our suppliers fail to meet our manufacturing needs, it would delay our production and our product shipments to customers and negatively affect our operations. Our products have a large number of components and subassemblies produced by outside suppliers. We depend greatly on these suppliers for tape drives, printed circuit boards and integrated circuits, which are essential to the manufacture of our products. We work closely with a group of regional, national and international suppliers, which are carefully selected based on their ability to provide quality parts and components that meet our specifications, as well as meet present and future volume requirements. For certain items, we qualify only a single source, which can magnify the risk of shortages and decrease our ability to negotiate with our suppliers on the basis of price. From time to time in the past, we have not obtained as many drives as we have needed from various vendors due to drive shortages or quality issues. If our vendors fail to meet our manufacturing needs, it would delay our production and our product shipments to customers and negatively affect our operations. We rely on indirect sales channels to market and sell our branded products. Therefore, the loss of or deterioration in our relationship with one or more of our distributors or resellers could negatively affect our operating results. We sell all of our branded products through our network of distributors, value-added resellers or VARs, and direct marketing resellers who in turn sell our products to end users. The success of these partners is hard to predict, particularly over time, and we have no purchase commitments or long-term orders from them that assure us of any baseline sales through these channels. Most of our partners carry competing product lines that they may promote over our products. A partner might not continue to purchase our products or market them effectively, and each reseller determines the type and amount of our products that it will purchase from us and the pricing of the products that it sells to end user customers. Our operating results could be adversely affected by any number of factors including: · a change in competitive strategy that adversely affects a partners’ willingness or ability to distribute our products; · the reduction, delay or cancellation of orders or the return of a significant amount of product(s); · the loss of one or more of such partners; or · any financial difficulties of such partners that result in their inability to pay amounts owed to us. We plan to replace our ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) System within the next several years, and this may be disruptive to our business. Our ERP system is approximately 11-years old, and we anticipate the need to replace it within the next several years. Transition to a new ERP system will be expensive and time consuming and, if problems occur in the transition, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we have modified this system significantly during its term of use and it is possible that we would experience a significant system failure before we replace the system. Any such failure also may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our financial results may fluctuate substantially for many reasons, and past results should not be relied on as indications of future performance. All of the markets that we serve are volatile and subject to market shifts, which we may not be able to discern in advance. A slowdown in the demand for workstations, mid-range computer systems, networks and servers could have a significant adverse effect on the demand for our products in any given period. We have experienced delays in receipt of purchase orders and, on occasion, anticipated purchase orders have been rescheduled or have not materialized due to changes in customer requirements. Our customers may cancel or delay purchase orders for a variety of reasons, including the rescheduling of new product introductions, changes in their inventory practices or forecasted demand, general economic conditions affecting our customers’ markets, changes in our pricing or the pricing of our competitors, new product announcements by us or others, quality or reliability problems related to our products or selection of competitive products as alternate sources of supply. In particular, our ability to forecast sales to distributors, integrators and value-added resellers is especially limited as these customers typically provide us with relatively short order lead times or are permitted to change orders on short notice. Given that a large portion of our sales are generated by our European channel, our first fiscal quarter (July through September) results of operations are commonly impacted by seasonally slow European orders, reflecting the summer holiday period in Europe. In addition, none of our customers is obligated to purchase a specific amount of our products. 13 Our financial results have fluctuated and will continue to fluctuate quarterly and annually based on many other factors such as: · changes in customer mix (e.g., OEM vs. branded); · changes in product mix; · fluctuations in average selling prices; · currency exchange fluctuations; · increases in costs and expenses associated with the introduction of new products; and · increases in the cost of or limitations on availability of materials. Based on all of the foregoing, we believe that our revenue and operating results will continue to fluctuate, and period-to-period comparisons are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied on as indications of future performance. Furthermore, in some future quarters, our revenue and operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors, which could result in a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. In addition, portions of our expenses are fixed and difficult to reduce if revenue does not meet our expectations. These fixed expenses magnify the adverse effect of any revenue shortfall. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations since it commenced trading in February 1997. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, including: · our ability to meet our working capital needs; · announcements concerning us, our competitors, our customers or our industry; · changes in earnings estimates by analysts; · purchasing decisions of HP and other significant customers; · quarterly variations in operating results; · the introduction of new technologies or products; · changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; · the terms of any financing arrangements we enter into; and · changes in general economic conditions. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many smaller public companies for reasons frequently unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 14 We face intense competition and price pressure, and many of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do. The worldwide storage market is intensely competitive as a number of manufacturers of tape automation solutions and storage management software products compete for a limited number of customers. In addition, barriers to entry are relatively low in these markets. We currently participate in the mid-range of the tape backup market. In this segment, some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources, larger research and development staffs, and more experience and capabilities in manufacturing, marketing and distributing products. The markets for our products are characterized by significant price competition, and we anticipate that our products will face increasing price pressure. This pressure could result in significant price erosion, reduced profit margins and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operation and financial position. Our business is highly dependent on the continued market acceptance and usage of tape-based systems for data backup and recovery. We have historically derived a majority of our revenue from products based on the use of magnetic tape drives for backup and recovery of digital data. Our tape-based storage solutions now compete directly with other storage technologies, such as hard disk drives, and may face competition in the future from other emerging technologies. The prices of hard disk drives continue to decrease while capacity and performance have increased. We expect that our tape-based products will face increased competition from these alternative technologies and come under increasing price pressure. If our strategy to compete in disk-based markets does not succeed, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operations and financial position. Our disk-based products involve many significant risks and may fail to achieve or maintain market acceptance. The success of our REO SERIES and ULTAMUS RAID family disk-based products is uncertain and subject to significant risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operation and financial position. We must commit significant resources to these new products and will continuously need to update and upgrade them to stay competitive. Any delay in the commercial release of new or enhanced disk-based products could result in a significant loss of potential revenue and may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, if our disk-based products do not achieve market acceptance or success, then the association of our brand name with these products may adversely affect our reputation and our sales of other products, as well as dilute the value of our brand name. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate rapid technological changes and develop new and enhanced products. As an advanced technology company, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, generally characterized by rapid technological change and intense competition. In this environment, our future success will depend on our ability to anticipate changes in technology, to develop new and enhanced products on a timely and cost-effective basis and to introduce, manufacture and achieve market acceptance of these new and enhanced products. Development schedules for high technology products are inherently subject to uncertainty. We may not meet our product development schedules, including those for products based on our disk-based technologies, and development costs could exceed budgeted amounts. Our business, liquidity, results of operations and financial position may be materially and adversely affected if the products or product enhancements that we develop are delayed or not delivered due to developmental problems, quality issues or component shortage problems, or if our products or product enhancements do not achieve market acceptance or are unreliable. The introduction, whether by us or our competitors, of new products embodying new technologies, such as new sequential or random access mass storage devices, and the emergence of new industry standards could render existing products obsolete or not marketable, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operations and financial position. Our international operations are important to our business and involve unique risks. Historically, sales to customers outside of the United States have represented a significant portion of our sales and we expect them to continue representing a significant portion of sales. Sales to customers outside the United States are subject to various risks, including: 15 · the imposition of governmental controls mandating compliance with various foreign and U.S. export laws; · currency exchange fluctuations and weak economic conditions in foreign markets; · political and economic instability; · trade restrictions; · changes in tariffs and taxes; · longer payment cycles (typically associated with international sales); and · difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. Furthermore, we may not be able to comply with changes in foreign standards in the future. Our inability to design products that comply with foreign standards could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operations and financial position. We are subject to exchange rate risk in connection with our international operations. We do not currently engage in foreign currency hedging activities and therefore we are exposed to some level of currency risk. Our wholly-owned subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, France and Germany incur costs which are denominated in local currencies. As exchange rates vary, these results when translated into U.S. dollars may vary from expectations and adversely impact overall expected results. A weaker U.S. dollar would result in an increase to revenue and expenses upon consolidation, and a stronger U.S. dollar would result in a decrease to revenue and expenses upon consolidation. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights effectively. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws to protect our intellectual property rights. These rights may not however prevent competitors from developing products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products. To the extent we have or obtain patents, such patents may not afford meaningful protection for our technology and products. Others may challenge our patents and, as a result, our patents could be narrowed, invalidated or declared unenforceable. In addition, current or future patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents in the United States or foreign countries. The laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as U.S. laws. Furthermore, competitors may independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or, if patents are issued to us, design around these patents. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate interference proceedings, oppositions, or patent litigation against third parties, such as infringement suits. These lawsuits could be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. The patent position of information technology firms generally is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions, and has recently been the subject of much litigation. No consistent policy has emerged from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or the courts regarding the breadth of claims allowed or the degree of protection afforded under information technology patents. Our success will depend partly on our ability to operate without infringing on or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. Our business is such that we may at any time be sued for infringing the patent rights or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. For example, during fiscal 2004 we settled a case alleging patent infringement. Intellectual property litigation is costly and, even if we prevail, the cost of such litigation could adversely affect our business, liquidity, results of operations and financial position. In addition, litigation is time consuming and diverts management attention and resources away from our business. If we do not prevail in any litigation, we could be required to stop the infringing activity and/or pay substantial damages. Under some circumstances in the United States, these damages could be triple the actual damages the patent holder incurs. If we have supplied infringing products to third parties for marketing or licensed third parties to manufacture, use or market infringing products, we may be obligated to indemnify these third parties for any damages they may be required to pay to the patent holder and for any losses the third parties may sustain themselves as the result of lost sales or damages paid to the patent holder. 16 If a third party holding rights under a patent successfully asserts an infringement claim with respect to any of our products, we may be prevented from manufacturing or marketing our infringing product in the country or countries covered by the patent we infringe, unless we can obtain a license from the patent holder. Any required license may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Some licenses may be non-exclusive, and therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to market some of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operations and financial position. We have made a number of acquisitions in the past, including our June 2008 acquisition of Snap Server, and we may make acquisitions in the future. The failure to successfully integrate acquisitions and successfully complete product development and launch of the related products could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We have in the past and may in the future make acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies as we implement our business strategy. Mergers and acquisitions involve numerous risks, including liabilities that we may assume from the acquired company, difficulties in completion of in-process product development and assimilation of the operations and personnel of the acquired business, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, risks of entering markets in which we have no direct prior experience, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired business. For example, in August 2005, we acquired Zetta Systems, whose data protection software was then incorporated into our ULTAMUS Pro storage appliance that was launched in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. ULTAMUS Pro did not generate revenue subsequent to its launch, and we subsequently discontinued the product and closed the related development facility. We recognized an impairment loss of $8.4 million and a write-down of $350,000 in inventory in the first quarter of fiscal 2007 associated with the failure of this acquisition. Future mergers and acquisitions by us also may result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities and the incurrence of debt, amortization expense and potential impairment charges related to intangible assets. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, liquidity, results of operations and financial position. Our warranty reserves may not adequately cover our warranty obligations. We have established reserves for the estimated liability associated with our product warranties. However, we could experience unforeseen circumstances where these or future reserves may not adequately cover our warranty obligations. For example, the failure or inadequate performance of product components that we purchase could increase our warranty obligations beyond these reserves. The failure to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could have a significant adverse impact on our operations. We have experienced significant changes in our senior management. In August 2007, our board of directors appointed Vernon A. LoForti, who had served as our chief financial officer since December 1995, as our new President and Chief Executive Officer. Kurt L. Kalbfleisch, who had served in our finance department since December 1994, was appointed as our vice president of finance in July 2007, and was appointed by our board of directors to the additional position of Interim Chief Financial Officer in August 2007. Mr. Kalbfleisch assumed the permanent role of Chief Financial Officer in February 2008. These changes may be a distraction to other senior management, business operations, commercial partners and customers. Additionally, we have experienced a prolonged period of operating losses and declines in our stock price and cash position which has affected and may continue to affect employee morale and retention. In April 2007, we reduced our workforce by 14% worldwide, and in August 2008, we further reduced our workforce by 13% worldwide. Further turnover, particularly among senior management, can also create distractions as we search for replacement personnel, which could result in significant recruiting, relocation, training and other costs, and can cause operational inefficiencies as replacement personnel become familiar with our business and operations. In addition, manpower in certain areas may be constrained, which could lead to disruptions over time. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to successfully attract or retain the management we need, or be able to maintain an optimal workforce size. Any inability to attract, retain or motivate such personnel or address manpower constraints as needed could materially adversely affect our future operating results and financial position. We do not currently maintain any key-man insurance for any of our employees. 17 We may require a reverse stock split in order to satisfy the requirement that our common stock maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 in order to maintain listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. If we cannot satisfy such requirement and other continued listing requirements, our common stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, and our stock price could be adversely affected and the liquidity of our stock and our ability to obtain financing could be impaired. On October 1, 2008, we received a NASDAQ Staff Determination letter notifying us that we were not in compliance with the requirement of NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5) for continued inclusion on the NASDAQ Global Market as a result of the closing bid price for our common stock being below $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days. This notification had no immediate effect on the listing of our common stock. The NASDAQ Marketplace Rules provide us with 180 calendar days, or until March 30, 2009, to regain compliance, which will require a closing bid price for our common stock above $1.00 for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. If we do not comply with Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5) by March 30, 2009, we may be eligible to have the listing of our shares transferred to the NASDAQ Capital Market, if on such date we meet the initial listing requirements for the NASDAQ Capital Market, other than the minimum bid price. If we were eligible to and determined to transfer our listing to the NASDAQ Capital Market, we would have an additional period of 180 days to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement for a period of at least 10 consecutive business days. Alternatively, we could appeal a delisting determination to a NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel and thereby attempt to retain our listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. We may also fail to meet other NASDAQ continued listing requirements in the future. If the trading price of our common stock does not increase to at least $1.00 per share, we plan to ask our shareholders to approve a reverse stock split. Our shareholders may not approve such a reverse stock split. If our shareholders do approve a reverse stock split and we elect to implement such a reverse stock split, we cannot predict with certainty what effect a reverse stock split will have on the market price of our common stock, particularly over the longer term. Some investors may view a reverse stock split negatively, which could result in a decrease in the market capitalization of our company. If a reverse stock split is implemented, some shareholders currently holding round lots of one hundred shares may as a result own an odd lot of less than one hundred shares. The sale of an odd lot may result in incrementally higher trading costs through certain brokers. Any delisting of our common stock by NASDAQ could adversely affect our ability to attract new investors, may result in decreased liquidity of the outstanding shares of common stock, and could reduce the price at which such shares trade and increase the transaction costs inherent in trading such shares with overall negative effects for our shareholders. In addition, delisting of the common stock could deter broker-dealers from making a market in or otherwise seeking or generating interest in our common stock, and might deter certain institutions and persons from investing in our stock at all. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have no unresolved comments from the SEC. 