Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this Report in evaluating our business and our prospects. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Report, including our financial statements and the related notes. Global Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. Beginning in late 2008 and continuing through 2009, there was a substantial deterioration in the global economic environment. As part of this deterioration, there was substantial uncertainty in the capital markets and access to financing was reduced. Due to these conditions, our customers reduced or curtailed their drilling programs, which resulted in a decrease in demand for our services. Furthermore, these factors resulted in certain of our customers experiencing an inability to pay suppliers, including us. Although the significant deterioration in the global economic environment appeared to stabilize to some degree during 2010, there is no assurance that the global economic environment could not quickly deteriorate again due to one or more factors. A return of the conditions causing a deterioration in the global economic environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. 8 We are Dependent on the Oil and Natural Gas Industry and Market Prices for Oil and Natural Gas. Declines in Oil and Natural Gas Prices Have Adversely Affected Our Operating Results. Our revenue, profitability and cash flows are highly dependent upon prevailing prices for natural gas and oil. For many years, oil and natural gas prices and markets have been extremely volatile. Prices are affected by: • market supply and demand, • international military, political and economic conditions, and • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, commonly known as OPEC, to set and maintain production and price targets. All of these factors are beyond our control. During 2008, the monthly average market price of natural gas (monthly average Henry Hub price as reported by the Energy Information Administration) peaked in June at $13.06 per Mcf before rapidly declining to an average of $5.99 per Mcf in December. In 2009, the monthly average market price of natural gas declined further to a low of $3.06 per Mcf in September. The monthly average market price of natural gas has not recovered to levels experienced during early 2008 and was $4.38 per Mcf in December 2010. This volatility and the extended declines in the market price of natural gas resulted in our customers significantly reducing their drilling activities beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, and drilling activities remained low through 2009 before increasing somewhat in 2010. The increase in 2010 can be attributed partially to increased activity in oil rich basins as a result of the growing development of unconventional oil reservoirs and an improvement in the price of oil compared to 2009. Although our average number of rigs operating increased during 2010, it remains well below the number of our available rigs. Construction of new land drilling rigs in the United States during the last ten years has significantly contributed to excess capacity. As a result of decreased drilling activity and excess capacity, our average number of rigs operating has declined significantly from historic highs. We expect oil and natural gas prices to continue to be volatile and to affect our financial condition, operations and ability to access sources of capital. Low market prices for natural gas and oil would likely result in low demand for our drilling rigs and pressure pumping services and would adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. A General Excess of Operable Land Drilling Rigs, Increasing Rig Specialization and Excess Pressure Pumping Equipment May Adversely Affect Our Utilization and Profit Margins. The North American land drilling industry has experienced periods of downturn in demand over the last decade. During these periods, there have been substantially more drilling rigs available than necessary to meet demand. As a result, drilling contractors have had difficulty sustaining profit margins and, at times, have sustained losses during the downturn periods. In addition, unconventional resource plays have substantially increased recently and some drilling rigs are not capable of drilling these wells efficiently. Accordingly, the utilization of some older technology drilling rigs may be hampered by their lack of capability to successfully compete for this work. Other ongoing factors which could continue to adversely affect utilization rates and pricing, even in an environment of high oil and natural gas prices and increased drilling activity, include: • movement of drilling rigs from region to region, • reactivation of land-based drilling rigs, or • construction of new drilling rigs. Construction of new drilling rigs increased significantly during the last ten years. The addition of new drilling rigs to the market and the recent decrease in demand has resulted in excess capacity. Similarly, the substantial recent increase in unconventional resource plays has led to higher demand for pressure pumping services. As a result, we believe there has been, and we expect there to continue to be, a significant increase in the construction of new pressure pumping equipment. The addition of new pressure pumping equipment, as well as any general decline in demand for pressure pumping services, could result in there being substantially more pressure pumping equipment available than necessary to meet demand. If this were to occur, providers of pressure pumping services will have difficulty sustaining profit margins and may sustain losses during downturn periods. We cannot predict either the 9 future level of demand for our contract drilling or pressure pumping services or future conditions in the oil and natural gas contract drilling or pressure pumping businesses. Shortages of Drill Pipe, Replacement Parts, Other Equipment and Materials Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. During periods of increased demand for drilling and pressure pumping services, the industry has experienced shortages of drill pipe, replacement parts, other equipment and materials, including proppants and gels for our pressure pumping operations. These shortages can cause the price of these items to increase significantly and require that orders for the items be placed well in advance of expected use. In addition, any interruption in supply due to vendor or other issues could result in significant delays in delivery of equipment and materials or prevent operations. These price increases and delays in delivery may require us to increase capital and repair expenditures and incur higher operating costs. Severe shortages or delays in delivery could limit our ability to operate our drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment. The Oil Service Business Segments in Which We Operate Are Highly Competitive with Excess Capacity, which Adversely Affects Our Operating Results. Our land drilling and pressure pumping businesses are highly competitive. At times, available land drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment exceed the demand for such equipment. This excess capacity has resulted in substantial competition for drilling and pressure pumping contracts. The fact that drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment are mobile and can be moved from one market to another in response to market conditions heightens the competition in the industry. We believe that price competition for drilling and pressure pumping contracts will continue due to the existence of available rigs and pressure pumping equipment. In recent years, many drilling and pressure pumping companies have consolidated or merged with other companies. Although this consolidation has decreased the total number of competitors, we believe the competition for drilling and pressure pumping services will continue to be intense. Labor Shortages and Rising Labor Costs Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. During periods of increasing demand for contract drilling and pressure pumping services, the industry experiences shortages of qualified personnel. During these periods, our ability to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel to market and operate our drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment is adversely affected, which negatively impacts both our operations and profitability. Operationally, it is more difficult to hire qualified personnel, which adversely affects our ability to mobilize inactive rigs and pressure pumping equipment in response to the increased demand for such services. Additionally, wage rates for drilling and pressure pumping personnel are likely to increase during periods of increasing demand, resulting in higher operating costs. Growth Through the Building of New Rigs and Pressure Pumping Equipment and Rig and Other Acquisitions are Not Assured. We have increased our drilling rig fleet and pressure pumping horsepower in the past through mergers, acquisitions and new construction. The land drilling and pressure pumping industries have experienced significant consolidation, and there can be no assurance that acquisition opportunities will be available in the future. We are also likely to continue to face intense competition from other companies for available acquisition opportunities. In addition, because improved technology has enhanced the ability to recover oil and natural gas, contract drillers may continue to build new, high technology rigs and providers of pressure pumping services may continue to build new, high horsepower equipment. There can be no assurance that we will: • have sufficient capital resources to complete additional acquisitions or build new rigs or pressure pumping equipment, 10 • successfully integrate additional drilling rigs, pressure pumping equipment or other assets, • effectively manage the growth and increased size of our organization, drilling fleet and pressure pumping equipment, • successfully deploy idle, stacked or additional rigs and pressure pumping equipment, • maintain the crews necessary to operate additional drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment, or • successfully improve our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects as a result of any completed acquisition or the building of new drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment. We may incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions, build new drilling rigs or build new pressure pumping equipment and also may issue equity, convertible or debt securities in connection with any such acquisitions or building program. Debt service requirements could represent a significant burden on our results of operations and financial condition, and the issuance of additional equity would be dilutive to existing stockholders. Also, continued growth could strain our management, operations, employees and other resources. The Nature of our Business Operations Presents Inherent Risks of Loss that, if not Insured or Indemnified Against, Could Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the contract drilling and pressure pumping businesses, which in turn could cause personal injury or death, work stoppage, or serious damage to our equipment. Our operations could also cause environmental and reservoir damages. We maintain insurance coverage and have indemnification agreements with many of our customers. However, there is no assurance that such insurance or indemnification agreements would be enforceable or adequately protect us against liability or losses from all consequences of these hazards. Additionally, there can be no assurance that insurance would be available to cover any or all of these risks, or, even if available, that insurance premiums or other costs would not rise significantly in the future, so as to make the cost of such insurance prohibitive. It is possible that a customer or insurer could fail or be unable to meet its indemnification or insurance obligations, which could result in a material loss. Moreover, we could suffer a material loss if we were to become subject to an unexpected judgment against us for which we are uninsured, for which indemnification is unenforceable or otherwise not available or that is beyond the amounts we reserved or anticipated incurring. Incurring a liability for which we are not fully insured or indemnified could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have also elected in some cases to accept a greater amount of risk through increased deductibles on certain insurance policies. For example, we generally maintain a $1.0 million per occurrence deductible on our workers’ compensation and equipment insurance coverages and a $2.0 million per occurrence self insured retention on our general liability insurance coverage. Difficulties Integrating Our Recently Acquired Pressure Pumping Assets Could Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. We expect that our recently acquired pressure pumping assets will complement and expand our business. Successfully integrating the acquired business depends on our ability to integrate the acquired assets and personnel and to maintain and grow the acquired customer base. We may encounter challenges in integrating the acquired business with our existing operations and management. We may not be able to fully take advantage of expected business opportunities, including successfully developing new markets and retaining acquired customers. The integration of the new business may place additional strain on our management. In addition, the acquired business may not achieve anticipated results. If the acquired business is not successfully integrated, our operating results could be adversely affected. We are Dependent Upon our Subsidiaries to Meet our Obligations Under our Long Term Debt We have borrowings outstanding under a term loan and our senior notes. These obligations are guaranteed by each of our existing subsidiaries other than immaterial subsidiaries. Our ability to meet our interest and principal payment obligations depends in large part on dividends paid to us by our subsidiaries. If our subsidiaries do not 11 generate sufficient cash flows to pay us dividends, we may be unable to meet our interest and principal payment obligations. Environmental Laws and Regulations, Including Violations Thereof Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. All of our operations and facilities are subject to numerous Federal, state, foreign and local environmental laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, laws concerning the containment and disposal of hazardous substances, oil field waste and other waste materials, the use of underground storage tanks, and the use of underground injection wells. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be substantial. A failure to comply with these requirements could expose us to substantial civil and criminal penalties. In addition, environmental laws and regulations in the United States and Canada impose a variety of requirements on “responsible parties” related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages from such spills. As an owner and operator of land-based drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment, we may be deemed to be a responsible party under these laws and regulations. Potential Legislation and Regulation Covering Hydraulic Fracturing Could Increase Our Costs and Result in Operational Delays. Members of the U.S. Congress and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) are reviewing more stringent regulation of hydraulic fracturing, a technology employed by our pressure pumping business, which involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil and natural gas production. Both the EPA and the U.S. Congress are studying whether there is any link between hydraulic fracturing activities and soil or ground water contamination. As part of their respective studies, the House Subcommittee on Energy and Environment and the EPA each sent requests to a number of companies, including our company for information on their hydraulic fracturing practices. We have responded to each of the inquiries. In addition, legislation has been proposed in the U.S. Congress to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process are impairing ground water or causing other damage. These bills, if adopted, could establish an additional level of regulation at the federal or state level that could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business. Certain states have adopted or are considering similar disclosure legislation. Additional regulation could increase the costs of conducting our business and could materially reduce our business opportunities and revenues if our customers decrease their levels of activity in response to such regulation. Legislation and Regulation of Greenhouse Gases Could Adversely Affect our Business We are aware of the increasing focus of local, state, national and international regulatory bodies on GHG emissions and climate change issues. We are also aware of legislation proposed by United States lawmakers and the Canadian legislature to reduce GHG emissions, as well as GHG emissions regulations enacted by the EPA and the Canadian provinces of Alberta and British Columbia. In 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court in Massachusetts, et al. v. Environmental Protection Agency held that carbon dioxide, a GHG, may be regulated as an “air pollutant” under the Clean Air Act, which could result in future regulations even if the U.S. Congress does not enact new legislation regarding such emissions. We will continue to monitor and assess any new policies, legislation or regulations in the areas where we operate to determine the impact of GHG emissions and climate change on our operations and take appropriate actions, where necessary. Any direct and indirect costs of meeting these requirements may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Anti-takeover Measures in Our Charter Documents and Under State Law Could Discourage an Acquisition and Thereby Affect the Related Purchase Price. We are a Delaware corporation subject to the Delaware General Corporation Law, including Section 203, an anti-takeover law. We have also enacted certain anti-takeover measures, including a stockholders’ rights plan. In 12 addition, our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to one million shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights (including voting rights), conversion ratios, preferences and privileges of that stock without further vote or action by the holders of the common stock. As a result of these measures and others, potential acquirers might find it more difficult or be discouraged from attempting to effect an acquisition transaction with us. This may deprive holders of our securities of certain opportunities to sell or otherwise dispose of the securities at above-market prices pursuant to any such transactions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 