ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our company involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information included in this report, you should carefully consider each of the following risk factors in evaluating our business and prospects as well as an investment in our company. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. In that case the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should also refer to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. Our cash and other sources of liquidity may not be adequate to fund our operations for the next twelve months. If we raise additional funding through sales of equity or equity-based securities, your shares will be diluted. If we need additional funding for operations and we are unable to raise it, we may be forced to liquidate assets and/or curtail or cease operations. Management has projected that cash on hand and funding available under our non-OEM accounts receivable financing agreements will be sufficient to allow us to continue operations at current levels for the next twelve months and beyond. However, a shortfall from projected sales levels and a consequential decrease in eligible non-OEM receivables or a change to the historical timing of receivables could have a material adverse affect on our ability to access the necessary level of funding to continue operations at current levels. In the event our access to receivables financing decreases, we may be forced to further extend payment terms with suppliers where possible, to liquidate certain assets where possible, and/or to suspend or curtail certain planned programs. Any of these actions could materially harm our business, results of operations and future prospects. As a result of our recurring losses from operations and negative cash flows, the report from our independent registered public accounting firm regarding our consolidated financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2009 includes an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We intend to seek debt, equity or equity-based financing (such as convertible debt) when market conditions permit. Such financing may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If we raise additional funds by selling additional shares of our capital stock, or securities convertible into shares of our capital stock, the ownership interest of our existing shareholders may be diluted. The amount of dilution could be increased by the issuance of warrants or securities with other dilutive characteristics, such as anti-dilution clauses or price resets. If we need additional funding for operations and we are unable to raise it, we may be forced to liquidate assets and/or curtail or cease operations. We urge you to review the additional information about our liquidity and capital resources in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this report. If we cease to continue as a going concern due to lack of available capital or otherwise, you may lose your entire investment in our company. 9 We have a history of net losses. We expect to continue to incur net losses for some time and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred significant operating losses in our last three fiscal years and we anticipate continued losses during fiscal 2010. As of June 30, 2009 we had an accumulated deficit of $69.0 million. To return to profitability we will need to maintain or increase revenue, increase gross profit margins and improve the operating model. Our financial condition and the “going concern” opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm may negatively impact our business. As a result of our recurring losses from operations and negative cash flows, the report from our independent registered public accounting firm regarding our consolidated financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2009 includes an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Such report, and our financial condition and history of net losses, could cause current or potential customers to defer new orders with us or to select other suppliers, and may cause suppliers to require terms that are unfavorable to us. We rely on indirect sales channels to market and sell our branded products. Therefore, the loss of or deterioration in our relationship with one or more of our distributors or resellers could negatively affect our operating results. We sell all of our branded products through our network of distributors, VARs and DMRs, who in turn sell our products to end users. Our largest distributor, Ingram Micro, accounted for 11.0%, 10.8% and 6.1% of sales in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The long-term success of any of our distributors or resellers is difficult to predict, and we have no purchase commitments or long-term orders from our any of them to assure us of any baseline sales through these channels. Most of our distributors and resellers also carry competing product lines that they may promote over our products. A distributor or reseller might not continue to purchase our products or market them effectively, and each determines the type and amount of our products that it will purchase from us and the pricing of the products that it sells to end user customers. Our operating results could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: • A change in competitive strategy that adversely affects a distributor’s or reseller’s willingness or ability to stock and distribute our products. • The reduction, delay or cancellation of orders or the return of a significant amount of product. • The loss of one or more of our distributors or resellers. • Any financial difficulties of our distributors or resellers that result in their inability to pay amounts owed to us. If our suppliers fail to meet our manufacturing needs, it would delay our production and our product shipments to customers and negatively affect our operations. Our products have a large number of components and subassemblies produced by outside suppliers. We depend greatly on these suppliers for items that are essential to the manufacture of our products, including tape drives, printed circuit boards and integrated circuits. We work closely with our regional, national and international suppliers, which are carefully selected based on their ability to provide quality parts and components that meet both our technical specifications and volume requirements. For certain items, we qualify only a single source, which magnifies the risk of shortages and decreases our ability to negotiate with that supplier on the basis of price. From time to time in the past, we have been unable to obtain as many drives as we have needed due to drive shortages or quality issues from certain of our suppliers. If our suppliers fail to meet our manufacturing needs, it would delay our production and our product shipments to customers and negatively affect our operations. 10 Our success depends on our ability to anticipate rapid technological changes and develop new and enhanced products. As an advanced technology company, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties characterized by rapid technological change and intense competition. Our future success will depend on our ability to anticipate changes in technology, and to develop, introduce, manufacture and achieve market acceptance of new and enhanced products on a timely and cost-effective basis. Development schedules for high technology products are inherently uncertain. We may not meet our product development schedules, and development costs could exceed budgeted amounts. Our business, results of operation, financial position and liquidity may be materially and adversely affected if the products or product enhancements that we develop are delayed or not delivered due to developmental problems, quality issues or component shortage problems, or if our products or product enhancements do not achieve market acceptance or are unreliable. We or our competitors will continue to introduce products embodying new technologies, such as new sequential or random access mass storage devices. In addition, new industry standards may emerge. Such events could render our existing products obsolete or not marketable, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial position and liquidity. Our disk-based products involve many significant risks and may fail to achieve or maintain market acceptance. The success of our REO, ULTAMUS RAID and Snap Server family disk-based products is uncertain and subject to significant risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial position and liquidity. We must commit significant resources to sustain these products and will continuously need to update and upgrade them to stay competitive. Any delay in the commercial release of new or enhanced disk-based products could result in a significant loss of potential revenue and may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, if our disk-based products do not achieve market acceptance or success, then the association of our brand name with these products may adversely affect our reputation and sales of other products, diluting the value of our brand name. Our business has been highly dependent on sales to large OEM customers, and we are currently in a transition with our largest OEM customer. HP has historically been our largest customer, accounting for 29.7%, 35.2% and 45.8% of sales in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Ingram Micro, a distribution customer, accounted for 11.0%, 10.8% and 6.1% of sales in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. No other customer accounted for more than 10.0% of sales in any year during the three-year period ended June 30, 2009. In August 2005, HP notified us that it had selected an alternate supplier for its next-generation mid-range tape automation products. HP began purchasing the first product of this new line from the alternate supplier during the first quarter of calendar year 2006, which decreased our sales to HP. However, in mid-2007, HP re-launched its tape automation products supplied by us with support for HP’s new LTO-4 tape drives, which slowed the rate of replacement of our supplied products by the alternate supplier’s product. Although we believe that our sales to HP will continue to decline, we recently extended our supply agreement with HP until July 2012 with automatic renewals for three consecutive one-year periods unless earlier terminated. We cannot predict the rate at which our sales to HP will decline. If they fall short of their forecast it may have a significant impact to revenue during fiscal 2010. Neither HP nor any other customer is obligated to purchase a specific amount of our products or provide binding forecasts of purchases for any period. We face intense competition and price pressure, and many of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do. The worldwide storage market is intensely competitive. A number of manufacturers of tape and disk-based storage solutions compete for a limited number of customers. In addition, barriers to entry are relatively low in 11 these markets. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources, larger research and development staffs, and more experience and capabilities in manufacturing, marketing and distributing products. Ongoing pricing pressure could result in significant price erosion, reduced profit margins and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial position and liquidity. Our business is highly dependent on the continued market acceptance and usage of tape-based systems for data backup and recovery. We have historically derived a majority of our revenue from products that use magnetic tape drives for backup and recovery of digital data. Our tape-based storage solutions now compete directly with other storage technologies, such as hard disk drives, and may face competition in the future from other emerging technologies. The prices of hard disk drives continue to decrease as their capacity and performance increase. We expect our tape-based products to face increased competition from these alternative technologies and come under increasing price pressure. If our strategy to compete in disk-based markets does not succeed, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial position and liquidity. If our revenue base continues to decline, we may choose to discontinue or exit some or a substantial portion of our current operations. Our management team continually reviews and evaluates our product portfolio, operating structure and markets to assess the future viability of our existing products and market positions. We may determine that the infrastructure and expenses necessary to sustain an existing product offering are greater than the potential contribution margin that we would realize. As a result, we may determine that it is in our interest to exit or divest one or more existing product offerings, which could result in costs incurred for exit or disposal activities and/or impairments of long-lived assets. Moreover, if we do not identify other opportunities to replace discontinued products or operations, our revenues would decline, which could lead to further net losses and cause our stock price to decline. We could incur charges for excess and obsolete inventory. The value of our inventory may be adversely affected by factors that affect our ability to sell the products in our inventory. Such factors include changes in technology, introductions of new products by us or our competitors, the current or future economic downturn, or other actions by our competitors. If we do not effectively forecast and manage our inventory, we may need to write off inventory as excess or obsolete, which adversely affects cost of sales and gross profit. We have previously experienced, and may in the future experience, reductions in sales of older generation products as customers delay or defer purchases in anticipation of new product that we or our competitors introduce. We have established reserves for slow moving or obsolete inventory. These reserves, however, may prove to be inadequate, which would result in additional charges for excess or obsolete inventory. Our warranty reserves may not adequately cover our warranty obligations. We have established reserves for the estimated liability associated with our product warranties. However, we could experience unforeseen circumstances where these or future reserves may not adequately cover our warranty obligations. For example, the failure or inadequate performance of product components that we purchase could increase our warranty obligations beyond these reserves. The failure to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could have a significant adverse impact on our operations. We have experienced significant changes in our senior management. In January 2009, our Board of Directors appointed Eric L. Kelly, who has served on our Board of Director since November 13, 2007, as our 12 Chief Executive Officer. Vernon A. LoForti who had served as our Chief Executive Officer and President since August 2007, transitioned to the role of President and resigned from our Board of Directors. In March 2009, W. Michael Gawarecki resigned as our Vice President of Operations. In July 2009, we appointed Jillian Mansolf as Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Marketing and Ravi Pendekanti became Vice President of Business Development and Solutions. These changes may be a distraction to other senior management, business operations, commercial partners and customers. Additionally, we have experienced a prolonged period of operating losses and declines in our stock price and cash position, which have affected and may continue to affect employee morale and retention. We reduced our workforce by 13.0% worldwide in August 2008, by 3.4% in December 2008, by 17.0% in January 2009, and by 11.1% in March 2009. In addition, we enacted a temporary 10.0% salary reduction for all employees in January 2009. Additional turnover, particularly among senior management, may also create distractions as we search for replacement personnel, which could result in significant recruiting, relocation, training and other costs, and can cause operational inefficiencies as replacement personnel become familiar with our business and operations. In addition, manpower in certain areas may be constrained, which could lead to disruptions over time. We cannot guarantee that we will successfully attract or retain the management we need, or be able to maintain an optimal workforce size. Any inability to attract, retain or motivate such personnel or to address manpower constraints could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. We do not currently maintain any key-man insurance for any of our employees. We face risks related to the continuing economic downturn. The continuing economic downturn in the U.S. and global financial markets, and in the U.S. and global economies, has had, and may continue to have, a material and adverse impact on our business and our financial condition. Businesses may further reduce or postpone spending on IT infrastructure in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and declines in income or asset values. We believe that such reduction in or postponement of spending has had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products. We cannot predict the length or severity of the current economic downturn, or the timing or severity of future economic or industry downturns. The continuing uncertainty in the capital markets may also severely restrict our ability to access the capital markets, which would limit our ability to react to changing economic and business conditions. A prolonged recession or further decline in the global economy would materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Our financial results may fluctuate substantially for many reasons, and past results should not be relied on as indications of future performance. The markets that we serve are volatile and subject to market shifts that we may be unable to anticipate. A slowdown in the demand for workstations, mid-range computer systems, networks and servers could have a significant adverse effect on the demand for our products in any given period. In the past, we have experienced delays in the receipt of purchase orders and, on occasion, anticipated purchase orders have been rescheduled or have not materialized due to changes in customer requirements. Our customers may cancel or delay purchase orders for a variety of reasons, including the rescheduling of new product introductions, changes in their inventory practices or forecasted demand, general economic conditions affecting our customers’ markets, changes in our pricing or the pricing of our competitors, new product announcements by us or others, quality or reliability problems related to our products or selection of competitive products as alternate sources of supply. In particular, our ability to forecast sales to distributors, integrators and VARs is especially limited because these customers typically provide us with relatively short order lead times or are permitted to change orders on short notice. Because a large portion of our sales is generated by our European channel, our first fiscal quarter (July through September) results of operations are often impacted by seasonally slow European orders, reflecting the summer holiday period in Europe. None of our customers is obligated to purchase a specific amount of our products. 13 Our financial results have fluctuated and will continue to fluctuate quarterly and annually based on many other factors: • Changes in customer mix (e.g., OEM vs. branded). • Changes in product mix. • Fluctuations in average selling prices. • Currency exchange fluctuations. • Increases in costs and expenses associated with the introduction of new products. • Increases in the cost of or limitations on the availability of materials. We therefore believe that our revenue and operating results will continue to fluctuate, and that period-to-period comparisons are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied on as indications of future performance. Our revenue and operating results may fail to meet the expectations of public market analysts or investors, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. In addition, portions of our expenses are fixed and difficult to reduce if revenue does not meet our expectations. These fixed expenses magnify the adverse effect of any revenue shortfall. We recorded an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of our auction rate securities (ARS) and we may incur additional impairment charges with respect to auction rate securities in the future. Credit concerns in the capital markets have significantly reduced our ability to liquidate auction rate securities that we classify as other assets on our balance sheet. As of June 30, 2009, our other assets included $1.7 million of ARS instruments with a par value of $5.0 million. These securities are collateralized by corporate debt obligations. Due to the failed auctions for these ARS since July 2007, we recorded other-than-temporary impairment charges of $1.9 million in fiscal 2008 and $1.6 million through the first three quarters of fiscal 2009. As of June 30, 2009, we estimated the fair value of our ARS at $1.7 million and recognized an unrealized gain, as a separate component of shareholders’ (deficit) equity, of $0.2 million, pre-tax, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 on these investments. An auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell their securities could not do so. We may nonetheless attempt to liquidate these securities to meet cash needs. If we liquidate our ARS or we determine that one or more of the assumptions used in estimating the fair value of our ARS needs to be revised, we may be required to record additional impairments in future periods. You should review the additional information about our liquidity and capital resources in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this report. We plan to replace our Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System within the next several years. This will be expensive and may be disruptive to our business. Our ERP system is 12 years old, and we plan to replace it within the next several years. Transitioning to a new ERP system will be expensive and time consuming, and our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if problems occur during the transition. In addition, we have modified our current ERP system significantly during its term of use and it is possible that we will experience a significant system failure before we replace it. Any such failure may materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity, results of operation and financial position. Our international operations are important to our business and involve unique risks. Sales to customers outside of the United States represent a significant portion of our sales and we expect them to continue to do so. Sales to customers outside the United States are subject to various risks, including: • The imposition of governmental controls mandating compliance with various foreign and U.S. export laws. 14 • Currency exchange fluctuations. • Weak economic conditions in foreign markets. • Political and economic instability. • Trade restrictions, tariffs and taxes. • Longer payment cycles typically associated with international sales. • Difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. Furthermore, we may be unable to comply with changes in foreign standards in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial position and liquidity. We are subject to exchange rate risk in connection with our international operations. We do not currently engage in foreign currency hedging activities and therefore we are exposed to some level of currency risk. While essentially all of our sales in international markets are denominated in U.S. dollars, our wholly-owned subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, France and Germany incur costs that are denominated in local currencies. As exchange rates vary, these results when translated into U.S. dollars may vary from expectations and adversely impact overall expected results. A weaker U.S. dollar would result in an increase to revenue and expenses upon consolidation, and a stronger U.S. dollar would result in a decrease to revenue and expenses upon consolidation. Exchange rate transactions resulted in a net gain of $0.9 million during fiscal 2009. Our ability to compete depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws to protect our intellectual property rights. However, these rights may not prevent competitors from developing products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products. To the extent we have or obtain patents, such patents may not afford meaningful protection for our technology and products. Others may challenge our patents and, as a result, our patents could be narrowed, invalidated or declared unenforceable. In addition, our current or future patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents in the United States or foreign countries. The laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as U.S. laws. Furthermore, competitors may independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or, if patents are issued to us, design around these patents. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate interference proceedings, oppositions, or patent litigation against third parties, such as infringement suits. Such enforcement efforts could be expensive and divert management’s time and attention from other business concerns. The patent position of information technology firms in particular is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions, and continues to be the subject of much litigation. No consistent policy has emerged from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or the courts regarding the breadth of claims allowed or the degree of protection afforded under information technology patents. Our success depends partly on our ability to operate without infringing on or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. We may at any time be sued for infringing the patent rights or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. Intellectual property litigation is costly and, even if we prevail, the cost of such litigation could adversely affect our business, liquidity, results of operations and financial position. In addition, litigation diverts management’s time, attention and resources away from other aspects of our business. If we do not prevail in any litigation, we could be required to stop the infringing activity and/or pay substantial damages. Under some circumstances in the United States, these damages could be triple the actual damages the patent holder incurs. If we supply infringing products to third parties, or if we license third parties to manufacture, use or market 15 infringing products, we may be obligated to indemnify these third parties for any damages they may be required to pay to the patent holder and for any losses the third parties may sustain themselves as the result of lost sales or damages paid to the patent holder. If a third party holding rights under a patent successfully asserts an infringement claim with respect to any of our products, we may be prevented from manufacturing or marketing our infringing product in the country or countries covered by the patent we infringe, unless we can obtain a license from the patent holder. Such licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Some licenses may be non-exclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to market some of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operations and financial position. We have made a number of acquisitions in the past, including our June 2008 acquisition of Snap Server, and we may make acquisitions in the future. The failure to successfully integrate acquisitions and successfully complete product development and launch of the related products could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We have in the past and may in the future make acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies as we implement our business strategy. Mergers and acquisitions involve numerous risks, including liabilities that we may assume from the acquired company, difficulties in completion of in-process product development and assimilation of the operations and personnel of the acquired business, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, risks of entering markets in which we have no direct prior experience, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired business. Future mergers and acquisitions by us also may result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities and the incurrence of debt, amortization expense and potential impairment charges related to intangible assets. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, liquidity, results of operations and financial position. The market price of our common stock is volatile. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations since it commenced trading in February 1997, and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, including: • Our ability to meet our working capital needs. • Announcements concerning us, our competitors, our customers or our industry. • Changes in earnings estimates by analysts. • Purchasing decisions of HP and other significant customers. • Quarterly variations in operating results. • The introduction of new technologies or products by us or our competitors. • Changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors. • The terms of any financing arrangements we enter into. • Changes in general economic conditions. In addition, stock markets generally have experienced extreme price and volume volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many smaller public companies for reasons frequently unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 16 We may not be able to meet the continued listing requirements for the NASDAQ Stock Market. We may effect a reverse stock split in order to meet one NASDAQ continued listing requirement but we may still not comply with other continued listing requirements. If our common stock is delisted from the NASDAQ Stock Market, our stock price could be adversely affected and the liquidity of our stock and our ability to obtain financing could be impaired. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. The NASDAQ Global Market has three alternative sets of continued listing standards—the equity standard, the market value standard and the total assets/total revenues standard. A listed company must meet at least one of the alternative listing standards to remain listed. On October 1, 2008, we received a NASDAQ Staff Determination letter notifying us that we were not in compliance with the requirement that our common stock maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share. The minimum bid price requirement applies to each of the three continued listing standards. At that time, we complied with the requirements of the equity standard, except for minimum bid price. Shortly after we received the October 1, 2008 notice, NASDAQ suspended the minimum bid price requirement and that suspension remained in effect until July 31, 2009. NASDAQ also suspended the requirements related to market value of publicly held shares, which apply to the equity standard and the assets/total revenue standard, and the suspension for these requirements also remained in effect until July 31, 2009. As a result of the suspension of the market value of publicly held shares requirements, we came into compliance with the assets/total revenues standard in addition to the equity standard. Following the filing of our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2008, we no longer complied with the equity standard, which requires reported shareholders’ equity to be at least $10 million, but we continued to comply with the total assets/total revenues standard. Because the suspensions of the minimum bid price and market value of publicly held shares standard have expired, we no longer satisfy the requirements of any of the alternative sets of continued listing standards. We have until January 15, 2010 to comply with the $1.00 per share minimum bid price requirement. To remain listed, our common stock must have a closing bid price of at least $1.00 per share for ten consecutive business days prior to January 15, 2010. At our Annual Meeting of Shareholders on December 9, 2008, our shareholders approved an amendment to our Articles of Incorporation to effect a reverse stock split in a specific ratio ranging from one-for-two to one-for-ten, to be determined by our board of directors and effected, it at all, by December 9, 2009. If our stock does not have a minimum bid price of at least $1.00 for ten consecutive business days prior to December 9, 2009, we intend to effect a reverse stock split in a ratio we believe will be sufficient to cause our stock price to exceed $1.00 per share. We cannot predict with certainty what effect a reverse stock split will have on the market price of our common stock, particularly over the longer term. Some investors may view a reverse stock split negatively, which could result in a decrease in the market capitalization of our company. If a reverse stock split is implemented, some shareholders currently holding round lots of one hundred shares may as a result own an odd lot of less than one hundred shares. The sale of an odd lot may result in incrementally higher trading costs through certain brokers. We have until September 14, 2009 to satisfy the requirement under the total assets/total revenue standard that the market value of our publicly held shares be at least $15 million. We do not currently satisfy either the equity standard or the market value standard. Based on our current number of outstanding shares (without giving effect to any reverse stock split we may implement), our common stock will need to have a closing inside bid price of at least $1.23 per share on at least one trading day before September 15, 2009 in order for us to avoid receiving a NASDAQ Staff Determination letter noting the deficiency. If we receive such a letter, we will have a 90 calendar day period to demonstrate compliance by showing a market value of publicly held shares of at least $15 million for at least ten consecutive business days. If we cannot achieve compliance by that date, we may transfer our listing to the NASDAQ Capital Market if we meet the requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market at the date of transfer. Those requirements include a minimum bid price of $1.00 and one of the following: shareholders’ equity of at least $2.5 million, market value of listed securities of at least $35 million or net income from continuing operations of $500,000 in our most recently completed fiscal year or in two of the three most recently completed fiscal years. We do not currently satisfy these requirements. If we do not achieve compliance with the minimum market value of publicly held shares and we cannot transfer our listing to the NASDAQ Capital Market, the NASDAQ Staff would be required to issue us a delisting notice. We 17 would have the opportunity to appeal a delisting notice to a NASDAQ Hearings Panel, which would delay any delisting until at least the date of the hearing. The NASDAQ Hearings Panel has discretion to grant an exception for up to 180 days after the initial delisting determination but it is not required to do so and may order a lesser exception period or order an immediate delisting. NASDAQ has proposed to amend its rules concerning procedures followed when a listed company falls below certain listing requirements. These amendments, if adopted, would extend the compliance period for a deficiency in market value of publicly held shares from 90 days to 180 days. There can be no assurance that these amendments will be adopted as proposed or adopted at all. We may also fail to satisfy other NASDAQ continued listing requirements in the future. Any delisting of our common stock by NASDAQ could adversely affect our ability to attract new investors, decrease the liquidity of the outstanding shares of common stock, reduce the price at which such shares trade and increase the transaction costs inherent in trading such shares with overall negative effects for our shareholders. In addition, delisting of the common stock could deter broker-dealers from making a market in or otherwise seeking or generating interest in our common stock, and might deter certain institutions and persons from investing in our stock at all. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have no unresolved comments from the SEC. 