Item 1A. Risk Factors. From time to time, we make written or oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our other filings with the SEC, press releases and reports to stockholders. These forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the “Safe Harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include, without limitation, statements relating to liquidity, financing of operations, sources and sufficiency of funds and impact of inflation. The words “believes,” “budgeted,” “expects,” “project,” “will,” “could,” “may,” “plans,” “intends,” “strategy,” or “anticipates,” and similar expressions are used to identify our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update, revise, or correct any of our forward-looking information. We include the following cautionary statement in accordance with the “Safe Harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for any forward-looking statement made by us, or on our behalf. The factors identified in this cautionary statement are important factors (but not necessarily all of the important factors) that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by us, or on our behalf. Where any such forward-looking statement includes a statement of the assumptions or bases underlying such forward-looking statement, we caution that, while we believe such assumptions or bases to be reasonable and make them in good faith, assumed facts or bases almost always vary from actual results. The differences between assumed facts or bases and actual results can be material, depending upon the circumstances. Where, in any forward-looking statement, we express an expectation or belief as to the future results, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis. However, there can be no assurance that the statement of expectation or belief will result, or be achieved or accomplished. 11 Table of Contents Taking this into account, the following are identified as important risk factors currently applicable to, or which could readily be applicable to, us: We are Dependent on the Oil and Natural Gas Industry and Market Prices for Oil and Natural Gas. Declines in Oil and Natural Gas Prices Have Adversely Affected Our Operations. Our revenue, profitability and rate of growth are substantially dependent upon prevailing prices for oil and natural gas. For many years, oil and natural gas prices and, therefore, the level of drilling, exploration, development and production, have been extremely volatile. Prices are affected by: • market supply and demand, • international military, political and economic conditions, and • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, commonly known as OPEC, to set and maintain production and price targets. All of these factors are beyond our control. Natural gas prices fell from an average of $6.23 per Mcf in the first quarter of 2001 to an average of $2.51 per Mcf for the same period in 2002. During this same period, the average number of our rigs operating dropped by approximately 50%. The average market price of natural gas improved from $3.36 in 2002 to $8.98 in 2005 resulting in an increase in demand for our drilling services. Our average number of rigs operating increased from 126 in 2002 to 276 in 2005. We expect oil and natural gas prices to continue to be volatile and to affect our financial condition and operations and ability to access sources of capital. A significant decrease in expected market prices for natural gas could result in a material decrease in demand for drilling rigs and reduction in our operating results. A General Excess of Operable Land Drilling Rigs Adversely Affects Our Profit Margins Particularly in Times of Weaker Demand. The North American land drilling industry has experienced periods of downturn in demand over the last decade. During these periods, there have been substantially more drilling rigs available than necessary to meet demand. As a result, drilling contractors have had difficulty sustaining profit margins during the downturn periods. In addition to adverse effects that future declines in demand could have on us, ongoing factors which could adversely affect utilization rates and pricing, even in an environment of high oil and natural gas prices and increased drilling activity, include: • movement of drilling rigs from region to region, • reactivation of land-based drilling rigs, or • construction of new drilling rigs. We cannot predict either the future level of demand for our contract drilling services or future conditions in the oil and natural gas contract drilling business. Shortages of Drill Pipe, Replacement Parts and Other Related Rig Equipment Adversely Affects Our Operating Results. During periods of increased demand for drilling services, the industry has experienced shortages of drill pipe, replacement parts and other related rig equipment. These shortages can cause the price of these items to increase significantly and require that orders for the items be placed well in advance of expected use. These price increases and delays in delivery may require us to increase capital and repairs expenditures in our contract drilling segment. Severe shortages could impair our ability to operate our drilling rigs. 12 Table of Contents The Various Business Segments in Which We Operate Are Highly Competitive with Excess Capacity which may Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. Our land drilling and pressure pumping businesses are highly competitive. While not the conditions at present, often times, available land drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment exceed the demand for such equipment. This excess capacity has resulted in substantial competition for drilling and pressure pumping contracts. The fact that drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment are mobile and can be moved from one market to another in response to market conditions heightens the competition in the industry. We believe that price competition for drilling and pressure pumping contracts will continue for the foreseeable future due to the existence of available rigs and pressure pumping equipment. In recent years, many drilling and pressure pumping companies have consolidated or merged with other companies. Although this consolidation has decreased the total number of competitors, we believe the competition for drilling and pressure pumping services will continue to be intense. The drilling and completion fluids services industry is highly competitive. Price is generally the most important factor. Other competitive factors include the availability of chemicals and experienced personnel, the reputation of the fluids services provider in the drilling industry and relationships with customers. Some of our competitors have substantially more resources and longer operating histories than we have. Labor Shortages Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. During periods of increasing demand for contract drilling services, the industry experiences shortages of qualified drilling rig personnel. During these periods, our ability to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel to market and operate our drilling rigs is adversely affected which negatively impacts both our operations and profitability. Operationally, it is more difficult to hire qualified personnel which adversely affects our ability to mobilize inactive rigs in response to the increased demand for our contract drilling services. Additionally, wage rates for drilling personnel are likely to increase, resulting in greater operating costs. Continued Growth Through Rig Acquisition is Not Assured. We have increased our drilling rig fleet over the past several years through mergers and acquisitions. The land drilling industry has experienced significant consolidation over the past several years, and there can be no assurance that acquisition opportunities will continue to be available. Additionally, we are likely to continue to face intense competition from other companies for available acquisition opportunities. There can be no assurance that we will: • have sufficient capital resources to complete additional acquisitions, • successfully integrate acquired operations and assets, • effectively manage the growth and increased size, • successfully deploy idle or stacked rigs, • maintain the crews and market share to operate drilling rigs acquired, or • successfully improve our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects in any material manner as a result of any completed acquisition. We may incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions and also may issue equity securities or convertible securities in connection with any such acquisitions. Debt service requirements could represent a significant burden on our results of operations and financial condition and the issuance of additional equity would be dilutive to existing stockholders. Also, continued growth could strain our management, operations, employees and other resources. 13 Table of Contents The Nature of our Business Operations Presents Inherent Risks of Loss that, if not Insured or Indemnified Against, Could Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the contract drilling, pressure pumping, and drilling and completion fluids businesses, which in turn could cause personal injury or death, work stoppage, or serious damage to our equipment. Our operations could also cause environmental and reservoir damages. We maintain insurance coverage and have indemnification agreements with many of our customers. However, there is no assurance that such insurance or indemnification agreements would adequately protect us against liability or losses from all consequences of the hazards. Additionally, there can be no assurance that insurance would be available to cover any or all of these risks, or, even if available, that insurance premiums or other costs would not rise significantly in the future, so as to make such insurance prohibitive. We have elected in some cases to accept a greater amount of risk through increased deductibles on certain insurance policies. For example, we maintain a $1.0 million per occurrence deductible on our workers’ compensation insurance and our general liability insurance coverages. These levels of self-insurance expose us to increased operating costs and risks. Violations of Environmental Laws and Regulations Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. The drilling of oil and natural gas wells is subject to various Federal, state, foreign, and local laws, rules and regulations. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be substantial. Failure to comply with these requirements could expose us to substantial civil and criminal penalties. In addition, Federal law imposes a variety of regulations on “responsible parties” related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages from such spills. As an owner and operator of land-based drilling rigs, we may be deemed to be a responsible party under Federal law. Our operations and facilities are subject to numerous state and Federal environmental laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, laws concerning the containment and disposal of hazardous substances, oil field waste and other waste materials, the use of underground storage tanks and the use of underground injection wells. Some of Our Contract Drilling Services are Done Under Turnkey and Footage Contracts, Which are Financially Risky. A portion of our contract drilling is performed under turnkey and footage contracts, which involve significant risks. Under turnkey drilling contracts, we contract to drill a well to a certain depth under specified conditions at a fixed price. Under footage contracts, we contract to drill a well to a certain depth under specified conditions at a fixed price per foot. The risk to us under these types of drilling contracts are greater than on a well drilled on a daywork basis. Unlike daywork contracts, we must bear the cost of services until the target depth is reached. In addition, we must assume most of the risk associated with the drilling operations, generally assumed by the operator of the well on a daywork contract, including blowouts, loss of hole from fire, machinery breakdowns and abnormal drilling conditions. Accordingly, if severe drilling problems are encountered in drilling wells under such contracts, we could suffer substantial losses. Anti-takeover Measures in Our Charter Documents and Under State Law Could Discourage an Acquisition and Thereby Affect the Related Purchase Price. We are a Delaware corporation subject to the Delaware General Corporation Law, including Section 203, an anti-takeover law enacted in 1988. We have also enacted certain anti-takeover measures, including a stockholders’ rights plan. In addition, our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to one million shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights (including voting rights), conversion ratios, preferences and privileges of that stock without further vote or action by the holders of the common stock. As a result of these measures and others, potential acquirers might find it more difficult or be discouraged from attempting to effect an acquisition transaction with us. This may deprive holders of our securities of certain opportunities to sell or otherwise dispose of the securities at above-market prices pursuant to any such transactions. 14 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 