Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this Report in evaluating our business and our prospects. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations could be harmed. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. We Are Dependent on the Oil and Natural Gas Industry and Market Prices for Oil and Natural Gas. Declines in Customers’ Operating and Capital Expenditures and in Oil and Natural Gas Prices May Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. We depend on our customers’ willingness to make operating and capital expenditures to explore for, develop and produce oil and natural gas in North America. If these expenditures decline, our business may suffer. Our customers’ willingness to explore, develop and produce depends largely upon prevailing industry conditions that are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, such as: • the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, including current natural gas storage capacity and usage, • the prices, and expectations about future prices, of oil and natural gas, • the supply of and demand for drilling and pressure pumping equipment, • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas, • the environmental and other laws and governmental regulations regarding the exploration, development, production and delivery of oil and natural gas, and in particular, public pressure on, and legislative and regulatory interest within, federal, state, foreign, regional and local governments to stop, significantly limit or regulate drilling and pressure pumping activities, including hydraulic fracturing, and • merger and divestiture activity among oil and natural gas producers. In particular, our revenue, profitability and cash flows are highly dependent upon prevailing prices for oil and natural gas and expectations about future prices. For many years, oil and natural gas prices and markets have been extremely volatile. Prices are affected by factors such as: • market supply and demand, • domestic and international military, political, economic and weather conditions, 10 Table of Contents • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, commonly known as OPEC, to set and maintain production and price targets, • technical advances affecting energy consumption and production, and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. All of these factors are beyond our control. Declines in the market prices of natural gas and oil caused our customers to significantly reduce their drilling activities beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, and drilling activities remained low throughout 2009. Drilling activities increased in 2010 as did the prices for oil and natural gas. The increased drilling activity was largely attributable to increased development of unconventional oil and natural gas reservoirs and an improvement in the price of oil. Drilling for oil and liquids rich targets continued to increase in 2011 as oil averaged $94.86 per barrel for the year (WTI spot price as reported by the United States Energy Information Administration). Natural gas prices decreased in 2011 to an average of $4.00 per Mcf (Henry Hub spot price as reported by the United States Energy Information Administration). This decrease continued into 2012 where natural gas prices fell below $2.00 per Mcf in April and averaged $2.75 per Mcf for the year, resulting in continued low levels of drilling activity for natural gas in 2012. The increase in drilling activity in oil rich basins absorbed some of the decrease in demand for natural gas drilling activities in 2012. During 2013, natural gas prices averaged $3.73 per Mcf, and oil prices averaged $97.91 per barrel, and demand for natural gas drilling activities continued to decline. Our average number of rigs operating remains well below the number of our available rigs. Construction of new land drilling rigs in the United States during the last decade has significantly contributed to excess capacity in total available drilling rigs. As a result of decreased drilling activity and excess capacity, our average number of rigs operating has declined from historic highs. We expect oil and natural gas prices to continue to be volatile and to affect our financial condition, operations and ability to access sources of capital. Low market prices for oil and natural gas would likely result in lower demand for our drilling rigs and pressure pumping services and could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Even during periods of high prices for oil and natural gas, companies exploring for oil and natural gas may cancel or curtail programs, or reduce their levels of capital expenditures for exploration and production for a variety of reasons, which could reduce demand for our drilling rigs and pressure pumping services. Global Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. Global economic conditions and volatility in commodity prices may cause our customers to reduce or curtail their drilling and well completion programs, which could result in a decrease in demand for our services. In addition, uncertainty in the capital markets may result in reduced access to financing by our customers and reduced demand for our services. Furthermore, these factors may result in certain of our customers experiencing an inability to pay suppliers, including us. The global economic environment in the past has experienced significant deterioration in a relatively short period, and there is no assurance that the global economic environment will not quickly deteriorate again due to one or more factors. A deterioration in the global economic environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. A General Excess of Operable Land Drilling Rigs, Increasing Rig Specialization and Excess Pressure Pumping Equipment May Adversely Affect Our Utilization and Profit Margins. The North American oil and natural gas services industry has experienced downturns in demand during the last decade. During these periods, there have been substantially more drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment available than necessary to meet demand. As a result, drilling and pressure pumping contractors have had difficulty sustaining profit margins and, at times, have incurred losses during the downturn periods. In addition, unconventional resource plays have substantially increased and some drilling rigs are not capable of drilling these wells efficiently. Accordingly, the utilization of some older technology drilling rigs may be hampered by their lack of capability to successfully compete for this work. Other ongoing factors which could 11 Table of Contents continue to adversely affect utilization rates and pricing, even in an environment of high oil and natural gas prices and increased drilling activity, include: • movement of drilling rigs from region to region, • reactivation of land-based drilling rigs, or • construction of new technology drilling rigs. Construction of new technology drilling rigs has increased in recent years. The addition of new technology drilling rigs to the market, combined with a reduction in the drilling of vertical wells, has resulted in excess capacity of conventional drilling rigs. Similarly, the substantial recent increase in unconventional resource plays has led to higher demand for pressure pumping services and there has been a significant increase in the construction of new pressure pumping equipment across the industry. As a result of low natural gas prices and the construction of new equipment, there is currently an excess of pressure pumping equipment available. In circumstances of excess capacity, providers of pressure pumping services have difficulty sustaining profit margins and may sustain losses during downturn periods. We cannot predict the future level of demand for our contract drilling or pressure pumping services or future conditions in the oil and natural gas contract drilling or pressure pumping businesses. Shortages, Delays in Delivery and Interruptions in Supply of Drill Pipe, Replacement Parts, Other Equipment, Supplies and Materials Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. During periods of increased demand for drilling and pressure pumping services, the industry has experienced shortages of drill pipe, replacement parts, other equipment, supplies and materials, including, in the case of our pressure pumping operations, proppants, acid, gel and water. These shortages can cause the price of these items to increase significantly and require that orders for the items be placed well in advance of expected use. In addition, any interruption in supply could result in significant delays in delivery of equipment and materials or prevent operations. Interruptions may be caused by, among other reasons: • weather issues, whether short-term such as a hurricane, or long-term such as a drought, and • a shortage in the number of vendors able or willing to provide the necessary equipment, supplies and materials, including as a result of commitments of vendors to other customers or third parties. These price increases, delays in delivery and interruptions in supply may require us to increase capital and repair expenditures and incur higher operating costs. Severe shortages, delays in delivery and interruptions in supply could limit our ability to construct and operate our drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Our Operations Are Subject to a Number of Operational Risks, Including Environmental and Weather Risks, Which Could Expose Us to Significant Losses and Damage Claims. We Are Not Fully Insured Against All of These Risks and Our Contractual Indemnity Provisions May Not Fully Protect Us. Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the contract drilling and pressure pumping businesses, including inclement weather, blowouts, well fires, loss of well control, pollution, exposure and reservoir damage. These hazards could cause personal injury or death, work stoppage, and serious damage to equipment and other property, as well as significant environmental and reservoir damages. These risks could expose us to substantial liability for personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, loss of oil and natural gas production, pollution and other environmental damages. We have indemnification agreements with many of our customers, and we also maintain liability and other forms of insurance. In general, our drilling and pressure pumping contracts typically contain provisions requiring our customers to indemnify us for, among other things, reservoir and certain pollution damage. Our right to indemnification may, however, be unenforceable or limited due to negligent or willful acts or omissions by us, our subcontractors and/or suppliers. Our customers may dispute, or be unable to meet, their indemnification obligations to us due to financial, legal or other reasons. Accordingly, we may be unable to transfer these risks to our customers by contract or indemnification agreements. Incurring a liability for which we are not fully 12 Table of Contents indemnified or insured could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We maintain insurance coverage of types and amounts that we believe to be customary in the industry, but we are not fully insured against all risks, either because insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs. The insurance coverage that we maintain includes insurance for fire, windstorm and other risks of physical loss to our rigs and certain other assets, employer’s liability, automobile liability, commercial general liability, workers’ compensation and insurance for other specific risks. We cannot assure, however, that any insurance obtained by us will be adequate to cover any losses or liabilities, or that this insurance will continue to be available or available on terms that are acceptable to us. While we carry insurance to cover physical damage to, or loss of, our drilling rigs and certain other assets, such insurance does not cover the full replacement cost of the rigs or other assets. We have also elected in some cases to accept a greater amount of risk through increased deductibles on certain insurance policies. For example, we generally maintain a $1.0 million per occurrence deductible on our workers’ compensation and equipment insurance coverage and a $2.0 million per occurrence self-insured retention on our general liability and automobile liability insurance coverage. We self-insure a number of other risks, including loss of earnings and business interruption, and do not carry a significant amount of insurance to cover risks of underground reservoir damage. Our insurance will not in all situations provide sufficient funds to protect us from all liabilities that could result from our operations. Our coverage includes aggregate policy limits and exclusions. As a result, we retain the risk for any loss in excess of these limits or that is otherwise excluded from our coverage. There can be no assurance that insurance will be available to cover any or all of our operational risks, or, even if available, that insurance premiums or other costs will not rise significantly in the future, so as to make the cost of such insurance prohibitive or that our coverage will cover a specific loss. Further, we may experience difficulties in collecting from insurers or such insurers may deny all or a portion of our claims for insurance coverage. Incurring a liability for which we are not fully insured or indemnified could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. If a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or an enforceable or recoverable indemnity from a third party, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. New Technologies May Cause Our Operating Methods and Equipment to Become Less Competitive, and Higher Levels of Capital Expenditures May be Necessary to Remain Competitive in our Industry. The market for our services is characterized by continual technological and process developments that have resulted in, and will likely continue to result in, substantial improvements in the functionality and performance of rigs and equipment. Our customers are increasingly demanding the services of newer, higher specification drilling rigs. Accordingly, a higher level of capital expenditures may be required to maintain and improve existing rigs and equipment and purchase and construct newer, higher specification drilling rigs to meet the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. In addition, technological changes, process improvements and other factors that increase operational efficiencies could result in oil and natural gas wells being drilled and completed more quickly, which could reduce the number of revenue earning days. Technological and process developments in the pressure pumping business could have similar effects. In recent years, we have added drilling rigs to our fleet through new construction, and we have purchased new pressure pumping equipment. Although we take measures to ensure that we use advanced oil and natural gas drilling technology, changes in technology or improvements in competitors’ equipment could make our equipment less competitive. If we are not successful in building new rigs and pressure pumping equipment or upgrading our existing rigs and pressure pumping equipment in a timely and cost-effective manner, we could lose market share. New technologies, services or standards could render some of our services, drilling rigs or pressure pumping equipment obsolete, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operation. 13 Table of Contents Our Current Backlog of Contract Drilling Revenue May Not Ultimately Be Realized as Fixed-Term Contracts May in Certain Instances Be Terminated Without an Early Termination Payment. As of December 31, 2013, our contract drilling backlog for future revenues under term contracts, which we define as contracts with a fixed term of six months or more, was approximately $946 million. Fixed-term drilling contracts customarily provide for termination at the election of the customer, with an “early termination payment” to us if a contract is terminated prior to the expiration of the fixed term. However, in certain circumstances, for example, destruction of a drilling rig that is not replaced within a specified period of time, our bankruptcy, or a breach of our contract obligations, the customer may not be obligated to make an early termination payment to us. Additionally, during depressed market conditions or otherwise, customers may be unable to satisfy their contractual obligations or may seek to terminate, renegotiate or fail to honor their contractual obligations. In addition, we may not be able to perform under these contracts due to events beyond our control, and our customers may seek to cancel or negotiate our contracts for various reasons, including those described above. As a result, we may be unable to realize all of our current contract drilling backlog. In addition, the renegotiation or termination of fixed-term contracts without the receipt of early termination payments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. The Oil Service Business Sectors in Which We Operate Are Highly Competitive with Excess Capacity, which Adversely Affects Our Operating Results. The land drilling and pressure pumping businesses are highly competitive. At times, available land drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment exceed the demand for such equipment. This excess capacity has resulted in substantial competition for drilling and pressure pumping contracts. The ability to move drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment from one market to another in response to market conditions heightens the competition in the industry. We believe that price competition for drilling and pressure pumping contracts will continue to be intense due to the existence of available rigs and pressure pumping equipment. As a result of competition, our utilization may decrease and/or we may be unable to maintain or increase prices for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Reliance on Management, Competition for Experienced Personnel and Rising Labor Costs Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. We greatly depend on the efforts of our key employees to manage our operations. The loss of members of management could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we utilize highly skilled personnel in operating and supporting our businesses. In times of increasing demand for our services, it may be difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel. During periods of high demand for our services, wage rates for operations personnel are also likely to increase, resulting in higher operating costs. An inability to obtain or attract and retain qualified personnel and increases in wage rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. The Loss of Large Customers Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. In 2013, we received approximately 46% of our consolidated operating revenues from our ten largest customers and approximately 29% of our consolidated operating revenues from our five largest customers. During 2013, one customer accounted for approximately $286 million or 10.5% of our consolidated operating revenues. These revenues were earned in both our contract drilling and pressure pumping businesses. The loss of one or more of our larger customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Growth Through the Building of New Rigs and Pressure Pumping Equipment and Rig and Other Acquisitions Are Not Assured. We have increased our drilling rig fleet and pressure pumping horsepower in the past through mergers, acquisitions and new construction. There can be no assurance that acquisition opportunities will be available in the future or that we will be able to execute timely or efficiently any plans for building new rigs and pressure pumping equipment. We are also likely to continue to face intense competition from other companies for available acquisition opportunities. In addition, because improved technology has enhanced the ability to recover oil and natural gas, contract drillers may continue to build new, high technology rigs and providers of pressure pumping services may continue to build new, high horsepower equipment. There can be no assurance that we will: • have sufficient capital resources to complete additional acquisitions or build new rigs or pressure pumping equipment, • successfully integrate additional drilling rigs, pressure pumping equipment or other assets or businesses, • effectively manage the growth and increased size of our organization, drilling fleet and pressure pumping equipment, • successfully deploy idle, stacked or additional rigs and pressure pumping equipment, • maintain the crews necessary to operate additional drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment, or • successfully improve our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects as a result of any completed acquisition or the building of new drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment. We may incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions, build new drilling rigs or build new pressure pumping equipment and also may issue equity, convertible or debt securities in connection with any such acquisitions or building program. Debt service requirements could represent a significant burden on our results of operations and financial condition, and the issuance of additional equity or convertible securities could be dilutive to existing stockholders. Also, continued growth could strain our management, operations, employees and other resources. Environmental and Occupational Health and Safety Laws and Regulations, Including Violations Thereof Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state, foreign, regional and local laws, rules and regulations governing the discharge of substances into the environment, protection of the environment and worker health and safety, including, without limitation, laws concerning the containment and disposal of hazardous substances, oil field waste and other waste materials, the use of underground storage tanks, and the use of underground injection wells. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be substantial. A failure to comply with these requirements could expose us to: • substantial civil, criminal and/or administrative penalties, • modification, denial or revocation of permits or other authorizations, • imposition of limitations on our operations, and • performance of site investigatory, remedial or other corrective actions. In addition, environmental laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate impose a variety of requirements on “responsible parties” related to the prevention of spills and liability for damages from such spills. As an owner and operator of land-based drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment, we may be deemed to be a responsible party under these laws and regulations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently and such laws and regulations tend to become more stringent over time. Stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase 15 Table of Contents compliance costs for us and our customers and have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial position. For example, on August 16, 2012, the EPA issued final rules that establish new air emission control requirements for natural gas and NGL production, processing and transportation activities, including NSPS to address emissions of sulfur dioxide and volatile organic compounds and NESHAPS to address hazardous air pollutants frequently associated with gas production and processing activities. Among other things, these final rules require the reduction of volatile organic compound emissions from natural gas wells through the use of reduced emission completions or “green completions” on all hydraulically fractured wells constructed or refractured after January 1, 2015. In addition, gas wells are now required to use completion combustion device equipment (i.e., flaring) if emissions cannot be directed to a gathering line. Further, the final rules under NESHAPS include maximum achievable control technology (MACT) standards for “small” glycol dehydrators that are located at major sources of hazardous air pollutants and modifications to the leak detection standards for valves. These rules may require the implementation of new operating standards which may impact our business. If these or other initiatives result in an increase in regulation, it could increase costs to us and our customers or reduce demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Potential Legislation and Regulation Covering Hydraulic Fracturing Could Increase Our Costs and Limit or Delay Our Operations. Members of the U.S. Congress and the EPA are reviewing more stringent regulation of hydraulic fracturing, a technology employed by our pressure pumping business, which involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil and natural gas production. Both the EPA and the U.S. Congress are studying whether there is any link between hydraulic fracturing activities and soil or ground water contamination. As part of their respective studies, the House Subcommittee on Energy and Environment and the EPA each sent requests to a number of companies, including our company, for information on their hydraulic fracturing practices. We have responded to each of the inquiries. In addition, legislation has been proposed in the U.S. Congress to amend the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process are impairing ground water or causing other damage. These bills, if adopted, could establish an additional level of regulation at the federal or state level that could limit or delay operational activities or increase operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult to perform or limit hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business. Certain states where we operate, including Texas, have adopted or are considering similar disclosure legislation. For example, Colorado, North Dakota, Montana, Texas, Louisiana, and Wyoming have adopted a variety of well construction, set back and disclosure regulations limiting how fracturing can be performed and requiring various degrees of chemical disclosure. In addition, the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel additives under the Safe Drinking Water Act’s Underground Injection Control Program and is developing final guidance documents related to this newly asserted regulatory authority. Additional regulation could increase the costs of conducting our business and could materially reduce our business opportunities and revenues if our customers decrease their levels of activity in response to such regulation. A number of federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing. For example, the EPA is conducting a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater. The EPA released a progress report on December 21, 2012 outlining work currently underway and is expected to release a draft final report in 2014. In addition, the EPA announced on October 20, 2011 that it is launching a study of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities and currently plans to propose pretreatment regulations in 2014. These ongoing or proposed studies, depending on their course, and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act or other regulatory mechanism. 16 Table of Contents The adoption of any future federal, state, foreign, regional or local laws that impact permitting requirements for, result in reporting obligations on, or otherwise limit, the hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and could increase our costs of compliance and doing business and reduce demand for our services. Regulation that significantly restricts or prohibits hydraulic fracturing could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Legislation and Regulation of Greenhouse Gases Could Adversely Affect Our Business We are aware of the increasing focus of local, state, regional, national and international regulatory bodies on greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions and climate change issues. Legislation to regulate GHG emissions has periodically been introduced in the U.S. Congress, and there has been a wide-ranging policy debate, both in the United States and internationally, regarding the impact of these gases and possible means for their regulation. Some of the proposals would require industries to meet stringent new standards that would require substantial reductions in carbon emissions. Those reductions could be costly and difficult to implement. The EPA has adopted rules requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources on an annual basis. Further, following a finding by the EPA that certain GHGs represent an endangerment to human health, the EPA finalized a rule to address permitting of GHG emissions from stationary sources under the Clean Air Act’s New Source Review Prevention of Significant Deterioration (“PSD”) and Title V programs. This final rule “tailors” the PSD and Title V programs to apply to certain stationary sources of GHG emissions in a multi-step process, with the largest sources first subject to permitting. Several states and geographic regions in the United States have also adopted legislation and regulations to reduce emissions of GHGs. Additional legislation or regulation by these states and regions, the EPA, and/or any international agreements to which the United States may become a party, that control or limit GHG emissions or otherwise seek to address climate change could adversely affect our operations. The cost of complying with any new law, regulation or treaty will depend on the details of the particular program. We will continue to monitor and assess any new policies, legislation or regulations in the areas where we operate to determine the impact of GHG emissions and climate change on our operations and take appropriate actions, where necessary. Any direct and indirect costs of meeting these requirements may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, existing or future laws or regulations related to GHGs and climate change, including incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources, could have a negative impact on our business if such laws or regulations reduce demand for oil and natural gas. Legal Proceedings Could Have a Negative Impact on our Business. The nature of our business makes us susceptible to legal proceedings and governmental investigations from time to time. Lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any legal proceedings or claims, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. International Uncertainties, and Laws Related to International Opportunities Could Adversely Affect our Opportunities and Future Business. We currently conduct operations in Canada, and we have incurred selling, general and administrative expenses related to the evaluation of and preparation for other international opportunities. International operations are subject to certain political, economic and other uncertainties not encountered in U.S. operations, including increased risks of social unrest, strikes, terrorism, kidnapping of employees, nationalization, forced negotiation or modification of contracts, expropriation of equipment as well as expropriation of a particular oil company operator’s property and drilling rights, taxation policies, foreign exchange restrictions, currency rate fluctuations and general hazards associated with foreign sovereignty over certain areas in which operations are conducted. To the extent we evaluate and prepare for international opportunities and conduct any international operations, there can be no assurance that there will not be changes in local laws, regulations and administrative 17 Table of Contents requirements or the interpretation thereof which could have a material adverse effect on the cost of entry into international markets, the profitability of international operations or the ability to continue those operations in certain areas. Because of the impact of local laws, our future international operations, if any, in certain areas may be conducted through entities in which local citizens own interests and through entities (including joint ventures) in which we hold only a minority interest or pursuant to arrangements under which we conduct operations under contract to local entities. While we believe that neither operating through such entities nor pursuant to such arrangements would have a material adverse effect on our operations or revenues, there can be no assurance that we will in all cases be able to structure or restructure our operations to conform to local law (or the administration thereof) on terms we find acceptable. There can be no assurance that we will: • identify attractive opportunities in international markets, • have sufficient capital resources to pursue and consummate international opportunities, • successfully integrate international drilling rigs, pressure pumping equipment or other assets or businesses, • effectively manage the start-up, development and growth of an international organization and assets, • hire, attract and retain the personnel necessary to successfully conduct international operations, or • successfully improve our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects as a result of the entry into one or more international markets. In addition, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Some of the parts of the world where contract drilling and pressure pumping activities are conducted have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practice and could impact business. Any failure to comply with the FCPA or other anti-bribery legislation could subject to us to civil, criminal and/or administrative penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We could also face fines, sanctions and other penalties from authorities in the relevant foreign jurisdictions, including prohibition of our participating in or curtailment of business operations in those jurisdictions and the seizure of drilling rigs, pressure pumping equipment or other assets. We may incur substantial indebtedness to finance an international transaction or operations and also may issue equity, convertible or debt securities in connection with any such transactions or operations. Debt service requirements could represent a significant burden on our results of operations and financial condition, and the issuance of additional equity or convertible securities could be dilutive to existing stockholders. Also, international expansion could strain our management, operations, employees and other resources. Our Business Is Subject to Cybersecurity Risks and Threats. Threats to information technology systems associated with cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents or attacks continue to grow. It is possible that our business, financial and other systems could be compromised, which might not be noticed for some period of time. Risks associated with these threats include, among other things, loss of intellectual property, disruption of our and customers’ business operations and safety procedures, loss or damage to our worksite data delivery systems, and increased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate cybersecurity events. We Are Dependent Upon Our Subsidiaries to Meet our Obligations Under Our Long Term Debt We have borrowings outstanding under our senior notes, term loan facility and, from time to time, revolving credit facility. These obligations are guaranteed by each of our existing subsidiaries other than immaterial subsidiaries. Our ability to meet our interest and principal payment obligations depends in large part on dividends 18 Table of Contents paid to us by our subsidiaries. If our subsidiaries do not generate sufficient cash flows to pay us dividends, we may be unable to meet our interest and principal payment obligations. Variable Rate Indebtedness Subjects Us to Interest Rate Risk, Which Could Cause Our Debt Service Obligations to Increase Significantly. We have in place a committed senior unsecured credit facility that includes a revolving credit facility and a term loan facility. Interest is paid on the outstanding principal amount of borrowings under the credit facility at a floating rate based on, at our election, LIBOR or a base rate. The margin on LIBOR loans ranges from 2.25% to 3.25% and the margin on base rate loans ranges from 1.25% to 2.25%, based on our debt to capitalization ratio. At December 31, 2013, the margin on LIBOR loans was 2.25% and the margin on base rate loans was 1.25%. As of December 31, 2013, we had no borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility and $92.5 million outstanding under our term credit facility at an interest rate of 2.50%. A one percent increase in the interest rate on the borrowings outstanding under our term credit facility as of December 31, 2013 would increase our annual cash interest expense by approximately $900,000. Interest rates could rise for various reasons in the future and increase our total interest expense, depending upon the amounts borrowed. Anti-takeover Measures in Our Charter Documents and Under State Law Could Discourage an Acquisition and Thereby Affect the Related Purchase Price. We are a Delaware corporation subject to the Delaware General Corporation Law, including Section 203, an anti-takeover law. Our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to one million shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights (including voting rights), conversion ratios, preferences and privileges of that stock without further vote or action by the holders of the common stock. It also prohibits stockholders from acting by written consent without the holding of a meeting. In addition, our bylaws impose certain advance notification requirements as to business that can be brought by a stockholder before annual stockholder meetings and as to persons nominated as directors by a stockholder. As a result of these measures and others, potential acquirers might find it more difficult or be discouraged from attempting to effect an acquisition transaction with us. This may deprive holders of our securities of certain opportunities to sell or otherwise dispose of the securities at above-market prices pursuant to any such transactions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 