ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSOur business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. The risks discussed below are those that we believe are the most significant risks affecting us and our business, although additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant may also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. Before making a decision to invest in our securities, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this report.A significant portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of commercial and industrial loans, many of which include larger credit relationships. The repayment of commercial loans is largely dependent upon the financial success and viability of the borrower and the state of the economy.Our commercial and industrial loan portfolio, which includes owner-occupied commercial real estate, totaled $7.1 billion, or 67% of our total loan portfolio, at December 31, 2013, compared to $6.5 billion, or 64% of our total loan portfolio, at December 31, 2012. The repayment of the loans in our commercial and industrial portfolio is largely dependent upon the financial success and viability of the borrower. Many of our commercial and industrial loans are secured by different types of collateral related to the underlying business, such as accounts receivable, inventory and equipment, which fluctuate in value. If we foreclose on underlying collateral in the event of default of any such loan, we may not be able to recover the full principal amount of the loan as the unique nature of certain collateral may make it difficult and costly to liquidate.Many of our commercial and industrial loans involve larger relationships. At December 31, 2013, we had 104 unique obligors with credit commitments of $25 million or more totaling $3.3 billion. Of this total commitment at December 31, 2013, we had $1.8 billion in loans outstanding, or 17% of our loan portfolio, to 90 unique obligors in amounts in excess of $25 million. Some of these obligors may be related to other obligors as guarantors or share related ownership structures with other obligors. Approximately 85% of these large obligors are commercial and industrial businesses; the remaining exposure relates primarily to commercial real estate loans. Of our largest commitments, five unique obligors with commitments of $50 million or more represented $302.8 million in total commitments at December 31, 2013, compared to the same number of unique obligors at December 31, 2012 with $332.5 million in total commitments. As of December 31, 2013, $15.9 million of these largest commitments was outstanding, compared to $50.5 million at December 31, 2012. These credits, as well as larger credit relationships, are subject to increased scrutiny in our credit approval process. Depending on collateral values, success of a workout strategy or the ability of a borrower to return to performing status, the unexpected occurrence of an event or development adversely impacting one or more of our large clients could materially affect our results of operation and financial condition.The largest industry segment concentration within our commercial lending business is the healthcare industry. At December 31, 2013, 23% of the commercial loan portfolio, or $1.7 billion, was composed of loans within the healthcare industry, primarily loans in which the facilities securing the loans are dependent, in part, on the receipt of payments and reimbursements under government contracts for services provided. We have a specialized niche in the nursing and residential care segment of the healthcare industry. Our clients and their ability to service debt may be adversely impacted by the financial health of state or federal payors and the ability of governmental entities, many of which have experienced budgetary stress in the recent economic environment, to make payments for services previously provided. As of December 31, 2013, 52% of the healthcare portfolio was secured by facilities in five states, with Illinois representing the highest percentage of facilities at 20%.The success of our business is dependent on ongoing access to sufficient and cost-effective sources of liquidity.We depend on access to a variety of funding sources to provide sufficient liquidity to grow our loan portfolio, meet our lending commitments and other business needs and accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our clients, including client draws on unused lines of credit. We had a total of $5.0 billion of unfunded commitments to extend credit, including obligations to issue letters of credit, as of December 31, 2013. It is difficult to predict when clients may draw on such commitments or the impact such draws may have on our liquidity needs.Our deposit base is relatively concentrated in large commercial client relationships. The loss of large client relationships could negatively impact our liquidity. At December 31, 2013, we had 16 client relationships with greater than $75 million in deposit balances and our ten largest depositor accounts totaled $2.1 billion, or 17% of total deposits. 22Table of ContentsCurrently, our primary sources of liquidity are client deposits, large institutional deposits, and wholesale market-based borrowings, including brokered deposits. In addition to on-balance sheet liquidity and funding, we maintain access to various external sources of funding. These external sources of funding include Federal Funds counterparty lines with unaffiliated banks, repurchase agreements, the discount window at the Federal Reserve Bank, Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") borrowings and the brokered deposit market. Our ability to access these external sources depends on availability in the market place and a number of factors such as counterparty relationship strength in the case of Federal Funds counterparty lines and repurchase agreements or the availability of loans eligible for pledging as collateral as required under the Federal Reserve's and the FHLB's lending arrangements (e.g., stipulations of documentation requirements, credit quality, payment status and other criteria). Since 2009, we have experienced a significant increase in client deposits. This has allowed us to reduce our reliance on wholesale funding sources. However, there can be no assurance that this level of client deposit growth will continue or remain at current levels or that we will be able to maintain lower reliance on brokered deposits. Some of our client deposits may move to other investment options (such as the fixed income or equity markets) or be reinvested in clients' businesses based on certain factors such as improvement in financial markets and general economic conditions or changes in interest rates. If our primary sources of liquidity are insufficient and we are unable to adequately access external sources, we may be required to increase our on-balance sheet liquidity and funding by accessing the capital markets, which may not be cost effective or may have a dilutive effect on our shareholders.Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio.Lending money is a substantial part of our business. Every loan we make carries a certain risk of non-payment. This risk is affected by, among other things:•the credit risks posed by the particular borrower and loan type;•changes in economic and industry conditions;•the duration of the loan;•in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral; and•the ability to identify potential repayment issues in loans at an early stage.We maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level management believes is sufficient to absorb credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The allowance for loan losses is assessed quarterly and represents an accounting estimate of probable losses in the portfolio at each balance sheet date based on a review of available and relevant information at that time. The allowance is not a prediction of our actual credit losses going forward. The allowance contains provisions for probable losses that have been identified relating to specific borrowing relationships that are considered to be impaired, as well as probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio that are not specifically identified, which is determined using a methodology that is a function of quantitative and qualitative factors applied to segments of our loan portfolio and management's judgment. The calculation of the allowance involves a great deal of judgment and uncertainty particularly given the state of the overall economy, the continuing stress in the commercial real estate market, and negative events or circumstances that might impact an individual borrower. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will not incur losses on loans greater than what we have provided for in the allowance.The allowance for loan losses was $143.1 million at December 31, 2013, compared to $161.4 million at December 31, 2012. The allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 1.34% at December 31, 2013, compared to 1.59% at December 31, 2012. Our allowance as a percentage of total loans reflects a level based on management's analysis of the risk inherent in our loan portfolio. Although we believe our loan loss allowance is adequate to absorb probable and reasonably estimable losses in our loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date, the allowance may not be adequate especially if economic conditions worsen or the factors used to calculate the allowance change. Also, proposed changes in accounting principles related to the calculation/determination of the allowance could result in a required increase.In calculating the allowance, we use historical default and loss information. A considerable portion of our commercial portfolio consists of recent-vintage loans, as there is considerable turnover in this portfolio. Because defaults typically do not emerge during the early stages of the life of a loan, it is more difficult to estimate the probable losses inherent in a newer portfolio, compared with a more seasoned portfolio.In the event we are required to increase our allowance for loan losses, our credit losses exceed our allowance or we are required to take higher than anticipated charge-offs in future periods, our earnings and our capital will be adversely affected. We may experience variability in our quarterly loan loss provision expense and charge-offs if larger credits default, which may impact credit quality trends.23Table of ContentsOur business could be significantly impacted if we, or our third party service providers, suffer failure or disruptions of information systems or if our employees cause an operational infrastructure breakdown or failure.We rely heavily on communications, data processing and other information processing systems to conduct our business and support our day-to-day banking, investment, and trust activities, many of which are provided through third-parties. If our third party providers encounter difficulties or become the source of an attack on or breach of their operational systems, data or infrastructure, or if we have difficulty communicating with any such third party system, our business operations could suffer. Any failure or disruption to our systems, or those of a third party provider, could impede our transaction processing, service delivery, customer relationship management, data processing, financial reporting or risk management. Although we take ongoing protective monitoring, detection, and prevention measures and perform penetration testing and risk assessments at least annually, our computer systems, software and networks, and those of our third party providers, may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information), account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses, denial of service attacks, malicious social engineering or other malicious code, or cyber attacks beyond what we can reasonably anticipate and such events could result in material loss. Additionally, we could suffer disruptions to our systems or damage to our network infrastructure from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as electrical or telecommunications outages, natural disasters, widespread health emergencies or pandemics, or events arising from local or larger scale political events, including terrorist acts. There can be no assurance that our policies, procedures and protective measures designed to prevent or limit the effect of a failure, interruption or security breach, or the policies, procedures and protective measures of our third party providers, will be effective. If significant failure, interruption or security breaches do occur in our processing systems or those of our third party providers, we could suffer damage to our reputation, a loss of customer business, additional regulatory scrutiny, or exposure to civil litigation, additional costs and possible financial liability. In addition, our business is highly dependent on our ability to process, record and monitor, on a continuous basis, a large number of transactions. To do so, we are dependent on our employees and therefore, the potential for operational risk exposure exists throughout our organization, including losses resulting from human error. We could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our employees causes a significant operational breakdown or failure. If we fail to maintain adequate infrastructure, systems, controls and personnel relative to our size and products and services, our ability to effectively operate our business may be impaired and our business could be adversely affected.The loss of key managing directors may adversely affect our business.We are a relationship-driven organization. Our growth and development during the past five years can be attributed in large part to the efforts of our managing directors who have primary contact with our clients and have responsibility for maintaining personalized relationships with our client base. These personalized relationships are a key aspect of our business strategy. The loss of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business if we are unable to hire suitable replacements or we are unable to successfully retain the client relationships of a departing managing director.We have counterparty risk; the creditworthiness of other financial institutions could expose us to losses on contracts we have with these institutions and could adversely affect our ability to provide services to our clients, specifically products and services relating to foreign exchange, derivatives and letters of credit.Our ability to provide certain products and service could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other banks. Banks are interrelated as a result of lending, clearing, correspondent, counterparty and other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more banks, or the banking industry generally, have in the past led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of the transactions engaged in by us in the ordinary course of business, particularly in our capital markets group, expose us to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or customer. In such instances, the collateral we hold may be insufficient to mitigate our losses, as we may be unable to realize or liquidate at prices sufficient to recover the full amount of our exposure. Such losses could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Our capital markets group offers a range of over-the-counter interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives products. Although we do not engage in any proprietary trading and we structure these client-generated trading activities to mitigate our exposure to market risk, we remain exposed to various risks, the most significant of which include credit risk of our counterparties, operational risk and settlement risk, which may be most significant in foreign exchange transactions where timing differences between settlement centers can result in us paying our client and/or counterparty before actually receiving the funds. In addition, for swaps we execute with counterparties to mitigate the market risk of our customer trades, we may be required to post collateral to secure our obligations related to those trades; if such a counterparty invokes the protection of insolvency laws, then the collateral posted to secure our obligations to that counterparty may be trapped with, and potentially subject to claims of creditors of, that counterparty. The risk exposure to our counterparties requires active monitoring as well as liquidity management to ensure timely and cost efficient posting of collateral. Operational risk includes errors in execution of internal bank procedures and controls, which could 24Table of Contentsexpose us to financial risk and/or reputation loss. A lapse or breakdown of these procedures or controls could significantly increase our exposure to counterparty credit risk and operational risk, which could result in a material loss to us.Potential acquisitions of other financial institutions could pose risk to our operations and could strain our personnel, systems and managerial resources. While our business strategy is primarily focused on organic growth, we may from time to time seek to acquire other financial institutions or related businesses to expand or improve our business. Among other potential opportunities, we may pursue acquisitions to expand our retail branch platform and diversify our core deposit mix. Acquiring other banks, businesses or branches involve various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things (i) potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities or asset quality issues of the target company; (ii) difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company; (iii) potential disruption to our business, including diversion of our management’s time and attention; (iv) the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; (v) difficulty in estimating the value of the target company; and (vi) potential changes in regulatory expectations that may affect the target company or increase the compliance burden of the combined entity. In connection with future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our current stockholders. Moreover, we cannot guarantee that our regulators will approve. Furthermore, there is no assurance that, following any future mergers or acquisitions, our integration efforts will be successful or that, after giving effect to the acquisition, we will achieve a level of profitability that will justify the investment that we made in any such acquisition.A prolonged continuation of economic uncertainty or worsening of current economic conditions, in the U.S. or globally, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.In recent years, the U.S. economy has been marked by sluggish labor market improvements, limited GDP growth, low inflation, and, only recently, upward movement in housing prices, as well as uncertainty related to U.S. and European fiscal issues, political climates and global economic conditions. Continued uncertainty, sustained high unemployment, volatility or disruptions of global financial markets, or prolonged deterioration in the global, national or local business or economic conditions could result in, among other things, a deterioration of credit quality, further impairment of real estate values or a reduced demand for credit or other products and services we offer to clients. In particular, the financial condition of the State of Illinois where we do the majority of our business (higher corporate tax rates, significant budget deficits and a deteriorating credit rating) may contribute to an adverse climate for doing business in the state which could negatively impact us to the extent it leads to declines in business activity in Illinois. Although we do not hold direct obligations of the State of Illinois, such conditions can also negatively affect the market value of those municipal bonds that are obligations of municipalities domiciled in Illinois.An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults in future periods by our borrowers due to any of the factors above, or otherwise, could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan and covered asset losses, and valuation adjustments on any loans held for sale, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes or an extended period of continued low interest rates.Our operating results are largely dependent on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on earning assets, usually loans and investment securities, and the interest expense paid on deposits and borrowings. The spread between the yield on our interest-earning assets and our overall cost of funds has been compressed in the recent low interest rate environment, and our net interest income may be adversely impacted by an extended period of continued low rates. Interest rates are affected by factors including: monetary policy of the FRB, actual inflation or deflation or expectations regarding the same, actual or forecasted economic growth or contractions, unemployment rates, domestic and foreign events, and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. The timing of any FRB action to curtail or eliminate various stimulus-related programs, as a result of inflation concerns or otherwise, could have an impact on interest rates in general and our net interest margin in particular. While the yield on our loan portfolio is primarily variable and based on short-term rates and would therefore adjust quickly to a rise in interest rates, the impact on our cost of funds from a rise in interest rates will depend on a number of factors, including but not limited to, the competitive environment in the banking sector for deposit pricing, opportunities for clients to invest in other markets such as fixed income and equity markets, and the propensity of customers to invest in their businesses. The effect on our net interest income from an increase in interest rates will ultimately depend on the extent to which the aggregate impact of loan re-pricings exceeds the impact of increases in our cost of funds. Moreover, depending on the level and trend of the aforementioned factors, our cost of funds could increase more rapidly than foreseen and level of change in cost of funds may even exceed the increase in yield in our loan portfolios.25Table of ContentsOur investment portfolio also contains interest rate sensitive instruments and the market value of these instruments may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates, domestic and international economic and political conditions, issuer or insurer credit deterioration and market factors. A rise in interest rates or spread widening would reduce the net unrealized gains that we had in our investment portfolio at the end of 2013.We are highly regulated and may be adversely affected by changes in banking laws, regulations, and regulatory practices.We are subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination. This regulatory structure gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies to address not only compliance with applicable laws and regulations (including laws and regulations governing consumer credit, fair lending, privacy, information security and anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws), but also capital adequacy, asset quality, risk management, management ability and performance, earnings, liquidity, and various other factors. Under this structure the regulatory agencies have broad discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on our operations if they determine, among other things, that our operations are unsafe or unsound, fail to comply with applicable law or regulations or are otherwise inconsistent with regulatory expectations or with the supervisory policies of these agencies. This supervisory framework could materially impact the conduct, growth and profitability of our operations. As described above in “Supervision and Regulation,” the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and recently adopted regulations have significantly changed the overall bank regulatory framework with increased capital requirements, heightened risk management expectations, and new consumer protection standards. Any failure on our part to comply with laws, regulations, and other regulatory requirements applicable to us or expectations of our regulators relating to compliance or safe and sound banking practices could result in regulatory sanctions, civil money penalties or adverse actions against us, which in turn could increase our compliance burden and costs of doing business, restrict our ability to expand our business or result in damage to our reputation.Changes in laws, regulations and other regulatory requirements affecting the financial services industry, and the effects of such changes, are difficult to predict and may have unintended consequences. New regulations or changes in the regulatory environment, including the ongoing implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act, could limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. We may incur increased costs related to additional staffing, professional services and information technology resources to support compliance or data collection and data analytics to satisfy evolving expectations for enhanced risk management processes and new regulatory reporting requirements.The creation of the CFPB under the Dodd-Frank Act has generally led to heightened scrutiny by banking regulators of financial institutions’ compliance with consumer lending laws and consumer financial regulations. The CFPB has broad rule-making, supervision and enforcement authority relating to a wide range of consumer protection laws. The CFPB has imposed significant fines and penalties on certain organizations relating to "unfair, deceptive or abusive" acts and practices as well as alleged fair lending violations based on claims of disparate impact on minority groups. There remains significant uncertainty surrounding the CFPB's enforcement activities and the scope of its consumer protection agenda. A significant portion of the CFPB's focus relates to the residential mortgage market. Uncertainty exists regarding how potential CFPB regulations will impact that market, including whether it will affect the level of overall mortgage activity.Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry.We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this environment. We compete for commercial business with many banks that are substantially larger than we are and, in some cases, we may have a competitive disadvantage due to their greater resources, broader product offerings and economies of scale. In the recent period of relatively low overall loan demand and persistently low interest rates, we have experienced significant competitive pricing pressure in certain of our loan segments. Because we generate earnings primarily from the difference between the interest earned on loans and the interest we pay to depositors, this pricing pressure has impacted our margins.Remaining competitive will require ongoing investments in technology and infrastructure to enhance service delivery, support new products and services and continue to grow our business in the current regulatory environment. These investments are directed at adapting existing products and services to evolving technology and the demands of our clients. Falling behind our competitors, who may have more extensive resources to invest, in any of these areas, could adversely affect our business.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.26Table of Contents