RISK FACTORS An investment in our company involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information included in this Report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating an investment in our company. You should consider these matters in conjunction with the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Report. Our business has been highly dependent on our level of sales to one major customer, and such customer will not be purchasing our next generation product. Hewlett-Packard Company (HP), including the former Compaq which HP acquired in May 2002, has been our largest customer, accounting for approximately 54.3% of net revenues in fiscal 2005, 58.8% of net revenues in fiscal 2004 and 58.4% of net revenues in fiscal 2003. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of net revenues in fiscal 2005. Neither HP nor any other customer is obligated to purchase a specific amount of our products or provide binding forecasts of purchases for any period. In August 2005, we announced that HP had selected an alternate supplier for its next-generation mid-range tape automation product. We expect HP to begin purchasing the first product of this new line from the alternate supplier during calendar year 2006. We expect HP to continue to purchase the tape automation products currently supplied by us for some time, but the new product will eventually replace the majority of those purchases. We cannot predict how quickly this transition will occur, but we believe the impact to our revenue during fiscal 2007 will be significant and there may be some impact to revenue in fiscal 2006. In August 2005, we acquired Zetta Systems, Inc. and the failure to successfully integrate this acquisition, or others in the future, could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We have in the past and expect in the future to make acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies as we implement our business strategy. For example, in June 2003 we acquired Okapi Software, Inc. and in August 2005 we acquired Zetta Systems. We are working now to integrate Zetta and to introduce products based on the Zetta software. If we fail to integrate Zetta successfully, it could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Mergers and acquisitions involve numerous risks, including liabilities that we may assume from the acquired company, difficulties in the assimilation of the operations and personnel of the acquired business, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, risks of entering markets in which we have no direct prior experience, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired business. Future mergers and acquisitions by us also may result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities and the incurrence of additional debt and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, liquidity, results of operation and financial position. We have outsourced all of our manufacturing to Sanmina-SCI Corporation. If we are unable to obtain our products from Sanmina-SCI in a cost effective and timely manner that meets our customers’ expectations, such failure could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In July 2005, we completed the outsourcing of all our manufacturing to Sanmina-SCI Corporation. We face a number of risks as a result of our decision to outsource manufacturing to Sanmina. Sanmina will be the sole source supplier for all of our products. Because of this dependence on one supplier, we are at greater risk of experiencing shortages or other delays in customer deliveries which could result in customer dissatisfaction and lost sales. We will also be dependent on Sanmina for product quality, over which we will have limited control. Our agreement with Sanmina also commits us to purchase products and materials based upon a forecast of customer demand that we provide. In the event of a reduction or shift in product mix in the forecast, we would be obligated to purchase finished goods in excess of customer demand, or be required to reimburse Sanmina for unique parts or excess or obsolete inventory. As a result, we could experience reduced gross margins based on these purchase commitments. Our new disk-based products involve many significant risks. In August 2003, we began shipping our REO SERIES of secondary disk-based backup and recovery products based on technology acquired from Okapi Software, Inc. We also expect to introduce a disk-based protected primary storage product in October 2005 based on the technology acquired from Zetta Systems, Inc. 8 The success of these disk-based products is uncertain and subject to significant risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operation and financial position. We must commit significant resources to these new products before determining whether they will succeed. If these new products are not adopted by customers or do not achieve anticipated sales levels, any related intangible assets we have recorded may be impaired. Such impairment would result in a charge against earnings in the period for which impairment is determined to exist, and reduce our assets and shareholders’ equity. Prior to our acquisition of Okapi Software, we had not been involved in the development, marketing and sale of disk-based products, and prior to our acquisition of Zetta Systems, we had not been involved in the protected primary storage market. The protected primary storage area is still new to many of our personnel. We will need to continuously update and periodically upgrade these products to stay competitive. Any delay in the commercial release of new or enhanced disk-based products could result in a significant loss of potential revenues and may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. If our disk-based products do not achieve market acceptance or success, then the association of our brand name with these products may adversely affect our reputation and our sales of other products, as well as dilute the value of our brand name. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations since it commenced trading in February 1997. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, including: • announcements concerning us, our competitors, our customers or our industry; • changes in earnings estimates by analysts; • purchasing decisions of HP and other significant customers; • quarterly variations in operating results; • the introduction of new technologies or products; • changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; and • changes in general economic conditions. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many smaller public companies for reasons frequently unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our financial results may fluctuate substantially for many reasons, and past results should not be relied on as indications of future performance. All of the markets that we serve are volatile and subject to market shifts, which we may not be able to discern in advance. A slowdown in the demand for workstations, mid-range computer systems, networks and servers could have a significant adverse effect on the demand for our products in any given period. We have experienced delays in receipt of purchase orders and, on occasion, anticipated purchase orders have been rescheduled or have not materialized due to changes in customer requirements. Our customers may cancel or delay purchase orders for a variety of reasons, including the rescheduling of new product introductions, changes in their inventory practices or forecasted demand, general economic conditions affecting our customers’ markets, changes in our pricing or the pricing of our competitors, new product announcements by us or others, quality or reliability problems related to our products or selection of competitive products as alternate sources of supply. In particular, our ability to forecast sales to distributors, integrators and value-added resellers is especially limited as these customers typically provide to us relatively short order lead times or are permitted to change orders on short notice. Given that a large portion of our sales are generated by our European channel, our first fiscal quarter (July through September) is commonly impacted by seasonally slow European orders, reflecting the summer holiday period in Europe. 9 In addition, our financial results have fluctuated and will continue to fluctuate quarterly and annually based on many other factors such as: • changes in customer mix (e.g., OEM vs. branded); • changes in product mix; • fluctuations in average selling prices; • currency exchange fluctuations; • increases in costs and expenses associated with the introduction of new products; and • increases in the cost of or limitations on availability of materials. Based on all of the foregoing, we believe that our revenues and operating results will continue to fluctuate, and period-to-period comparisons are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied on as indications of future performance. Furthermore, in some future quarters, our revenues and operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors, which could result in a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. In addition, portions of our expenses are fixed and difficult to reduce if revenues do not meet our expectations. These fixed expenses magnify the material adverse effect of any revenue shortfall. We face intense competition and price pressure, and many of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do. The worldwide storage market is intensely competitive as a number of manufacturers of tape automation solutions and storage management software products compete for a limited number of customers. In addition, barriers to entry are relatively low in these markets. We currently participate in the mid-range of the tape backup market. In this segment, some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources, larger research and development staffs, and more experience and capabilities in manufacturing, marketing and distributing products. Our hardware products currently compete with products made by Advanced Digital Information Corporation, Quantum Corporation and Storage Technology Corporation (recently acquired by Sun Microsystems). Our disk-based products currently compete with products made by International Business Machines Corporation, HP, Computer Associates International, Inc., EMC Corporation, Veritas Software Corporation, Quantum Corporation, Network Appliance, Inc. and numerous small startups. The markets for our products are characterized by significant price competition, and we anticipate that our products will face increasing price pressure. This pressure could result in significant price erosion, reduced profit margins and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operation and financial position. Our business is highly dependent on the continued availability and market acceptance of the tape technologies incorporated in our products. We have historically derived a majority of our revenue from products that incorporate tape drives purchased from other manufacturers and based on unique formats and tape technologies. Certain of these tape drives are available only from a single manufacturer. For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to derive a substantial amount of our revenue from products incorporating these tape drives. A portion of our products incorporate DLTtape drives manufactured by Quantum Corporation. Quantum also is one of our competitors because Quantum markets its own tape automation products. We do not have a long-term contract with Quantum, which could cease supplying tape drives directly to us. In addition, from time to time in the past, we have not obtained as many drives as we have needed from various vendors due to drive shortages or quality issues. Any prolonged inability to obtain adequate deliveries could require us to pay more for components, parts and other supplies, seek alternative sources of supply, delay shipment of products and damage relationships with current and prospective customers. This type of delay or damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operation and financial position. In fiscal 1997, we experienced problems with the supply of a newly-introduced tape drive and these problems materially adversely affected our sales and earnings for that year. And, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, we experienced drive availability issues which had a lesser effect on sales and earnings for the quarter. 10 We cannot assure you that these or similar problems will not reoccur, or that we will not experience similar or more serious disruptions in supply in the future with current or new versions of tape drives. Our future operating results depend on the continued availability and market acceptance of the current tape technologies that we use. If tape drives incorporating other technologies gain comparable or superior market acceptance than those currently incorporated in our products, we might have to modify the design of our tape automation products to incorporate these tape drives. Our inability to do so or to obtain sufficient quantities of these tape drives could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operation and financial position. Our tape-based storage solutions compete indirectly with other storage technologies, such as hard disk drives, and may face competition in the future from other emerging technologies. The prices of hard disk drives continue to decrease while capacity and performance have increased. We expect that our tape-based products will face increased competition from these alternative technologies. If our strategy to compete in disk-based markets does not succeed, our business, financial condition and operating results will be materially and adversely affected. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate rapid technological changes and develop new and enhanced products. As an advanced technology company, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, generally characterized by rapid technological change and intense competition. In this environment, our future success will depend on our ability to anticipate changes in technology, to develop new and enhanced products on a timely and cost-effective basis and to introduce, manufacture and achieve market acceptance of these new and enhanced products. Development schedules for high technology products are inherently subject to uncertainty. We may not meet our product development schedules, including those for products based on our disk-based technology, and development costs could exceed budgeted amounts. In addition, there can be no assurance that the licensees of our VR2 technology will meet their product development schedules. Our business, liquidity, results of operation and financial position may be materially and adversely affected if the products or product enhancements that we develop are delayed or not delivered due to developmental problems, quality issues or component shortage problems, or if our products or product enhancements do not achieve market acceptance or are unreliable. The introduction, whether by us or our competitors, of new products embodying new technologies, such as new sequential or random access mass storage devices, and the emergence of new industry standards could render existing products obsolete or not marketable, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operation and financial position. Our international operations are important to our business and involve unique risks. Historically, sales to customers outside of the U.S. have represented a significant portion of our sales and we expect them to continue representing a significant portion of sales. Sales to customers outside the U.S. are subject to various risks, including: • the imposition of governmental controls mandating compliance with various foreign and U.S. export laws; • currency exchange fluctuations; • political and economic instability; • trade restrictions; • changes in tariffs and taxes; • longer payment cycles (typically associated with international sales); and • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. Furthermore, we cannot assure that we will be able to comply with changes in foreign standards in the future, even though we endeavor to meet standards established by foreign regulatory bodies. Our inability to design products that comply with foreign standards could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operation and financial position. We are subject to exchange rate risk in connection with our international operations. We do not currently engage in foreign currency hedging activities and therefore we are exposed to some level of currency risk. As foreign currency exchange rates vary, the fluctuations in revenues and expenses may materially impact the financial statements upon consolidation. 11 A weaker U.S. dollar would result in an increase to revenues and expenses upon consolidation, and a stronger U.S. dollar would result in a decrease to revenues and expenses upon consolidation. Currently, nearly all of our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. Furthermore, the results of operations of our foreign subsidiaries are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the subsidiaries are translated from the local currency to U.S. dollars upon consolidation. Because of the significance of the operations of our subsidiaries to our consolidated operations, as exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results, when translated, may differ materially from our prior performance and our expectations. In addition, because of the significance of our overseas operations, we could also be significantly affected by weak economic conditions in foreign markets that could reduce demand for our products and further negatively impact the results of our operations in a material and adverse manner. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on our ability to protect effectively our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws to protect our intellectual property rights. These rights, however, may not prevent competitors from developing products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products. To the extent we have or obtain patents, such patents may not afford meaningful protection for our technology and products. Others may challenge our patents and, as a result, our patents could be narrowed, invalidated or declared unenforceable. In addition, current or future patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents in the United States or foreign countries. The laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as U.S. laws. Furthermore, competitors may independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or, if patents are issued to us, design around these patents. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate interference proceedings, oppositions, or patent litigation against third parties, such as infringement suits. These lawsuits could be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. The patent position of information technology firms generally is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions, and has recently been the subject of much litigation. No consistent policy has emerged from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or the courts regarding the breadth of claims allowed or the degree of protection afforded under information technology patents. Our success will depend partly on our ability to operate without infringing on or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. Our business is such that we may at any time be sued for infringing the patent rights or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. For example, during fiscal 2004 we settled a case alleging patent infringement. Intellectual property litigation is costly and, even if we prevail, the cost of such litigation could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, litigation is time consuming and could divert management attention and resources away from our business. If we do not prevail in any litigation, we could be required to stop the infringing activity and/or pay substantial damages. Under some circumstances in the United States, these damages could be triple the actual damages the patent holder incurs. If we have supplied infringing products to third parties for marketing or licensed third parties to manufacture, use or market infringing products, we may be obligated to indemnify these third parties for any damages they may be required to pay to the patent holder and for any losses the third parties may sustain themselves as the result of lost sales or damages paid to the patent holder. If a third party holding rights under a patent successfully asserts an infringement claim with respect to any of our products, we may be prevented from manufacturing or marketing our infringing product in the country or countries covered by the patent we infringe, unless we can obtain a license from the patent holder. Any required license may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Some licenses may be non-exclusive, and therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to market some of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our warranty reserves may not adequately cover our warranty obligations. We have established reserves for the estimated liability associated with our product warranties. However, we could experience unforeseen circumstances where these or future reserves may not adequately cover our warranty obligations. For example, the failure or inadequate performance of product components that we purchase could increase our warranty obligations beyond these reserves. 12 Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate our executives and other key personnel. Our future success depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate our executives and other key personnel, many of whom have been instrumental in developing new technologies and setting strategic plans. Our growth also depends in large part on our continuing ability to hire, motivate and retain highly qualified management, technical, sales and marketing team members. Competition for qualified personnel is intense and there can be no assurance that we will retain existing personnel or attract additional qualified personnel in the future. Changes in stock option accounting rules may adversely impact our reported operating results prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, our stock price and our competitiveness in the employee marketplace. Technology companies in general and our company in particular have a history of depending upon and using broad based employee stock option programs to hire, incentivize and retain employees in a competitive marketplace. For fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003, we did not recognize compensation expense for stock options issued to employees or directors, except in limited cases involving modifications of stock options, and we instead disclosed in the notes to our financial statements information about what such charges would be if they were expensed. Beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2006, we have adopted SFAS No. 123(R), which will require us to record equity-based compensation expense for stock options and employee stock purchase plan rights granted to employees based on the fair value of the equity instrument at the time of grant. The change in accounting rules will lead to a decrease in reported earnings or an increase in reported net loss, as the case may be. This may negatively impact our future stock price. In addition, this change in accounting rules could impact our ability to utilize broad based employee stock plans to reward employees and could result in a competitive disadvantage to us in the employee marketplace. See Note 1, “Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Stock Based Compensation, of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for more information concerning our adoption of this accounting standard. 