ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The material risks and uncertainties that we believe affect our business are described below. Before making an investment decision with respect to any of our securities, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties as described below together with all of the information included herein. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial also may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If any of the following risks actually occur, our results of operations and financial condition could suffer, possibly materially. In that event, the trading price of our common stock or other securities could decline. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and actual results may differ substantially from those discussed or implied in these forward-looking statements. We may not be able to implement aspects of our Strategic Growth Plan. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we announced the implementation of our Plan, which included the hiring of our new President and CEO, Larry D. Richman, in November 2007, as well as the hiring of a significant number of senior commercial bankers and other employees, in late 2007 and through 2008, which significantly expanded the size and scope of the Company, particularly in our Chicago offices. Our growth strategy contemplates continued substantial organic growth, including the further expansion of our business and operations. We may also continue the hiring of additional personnel, although at a slower pace than the past year, as we look to add new and enhanced product lines and services and possibly establish additional banking offices in our existing or in new metropolitan markets in the United States. Implementing our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to successfully identify and capture new business, clients, market share and potential acquisition opportunities in both our existing and new markets. To successfully grow our business, we must also be able to correctly identify and capture profitable client relationships and generate enough additional revenue to offset the compensation and other operating costs associated with the expansion in the size and scope of the Company. Moreover, as we open new offices we must be able to attract the necessary relationships to make these new offices cost-effective. It is also likely that the costs associated with continued future expansion, including compensation-related expenses, will continue to have an adverse effect on our earnings per share while we are in the early stages of implementing our growth strategy. To the extent we hire new banking officers or open new banking or business development offices, our level of reported net income, return on average equity and return on average assets will be affected by overhead expenses associated with such hiring and operation, or start-up costs, and the related profitability will also depend on the time lag associated with new banking relationships, originating loans, and building core deposits as well as the increase in our allowance for loan losses that typically occurs as we grow our loan portfolio. We are likely to experience the effects of higher expenses relative to operating income from any new operation and the expansion of our employee base. These expenses may be higher than we expected, and it may take longer than expected for new hires and new offices to reach profitability. In addition, we cannot be sure that we will be able to identify suitable opportunities for further growth and expansion, or that if we do, that we will be able to successfully integrate these new operations into our business. If we are unable to effectively implement our growth strategies, our business may be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents Our growth and expansion may strain our ability to manage our operations and our financial resources. Our financial performance and profitability depend on our ability to continue to execute our Plan. Our expected continued growth, however, may present operating and other challenges that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our growth will place a strain on our infrastructure, including administrative, operational and financial resources and increased demands on our systems and controls. Accordingly, our growth will require continued enhancements to, and expansion of, our operating and financial systems and controls and may strain or significantly challenge them. The process of integrating our new personnel, as well as consolidating the businesses and implementing the strategic integration of any acquired or newly-established banking offices and businesses with our existing business, may take a significant amount of time. It may also place additional strain on our existing personnel and resources and require us to incur substantial expenses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage our growth or effectively integrate any businesses we acquire or establish successfully or in a timely manner, or that we will be able to effectively enhance our infrastructure in order to be able to support our continued growth. In order to continue to grow, we will also need to hire additional qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting, integrating and retaining such personnel. We must be able to successfully integrate our new hires and maintain a cohesive culture in order for our management team to be effective. Since September 30, 2007, we have hired a substantial number of senior commercial banking officers and other professionals as we have implemented our Plan. We must be able to continue to integrate these new hires in order to successfully build a cohesive management team to fully realize the goals of our Plan. The inability to manage the social and cultural issues involved in this integration could adversely affect our ability to successfully re-align and grow our business as anticipated, and could cause us to incur additional cost and expense as a result of management’s time and focus being diverted toward resolving any such issues. The loss of key managing directors may adversely affect our operations. We are a relationship-driven organization. Our growth and development to date have resulted in large part from the efforts of our managing directors who have primary contact with our clients and are extremely important in maintaining personalized relationships with our client base, which is a key aspect of our business strategy and in increasing our market presence. The loss of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect central to our operations if remaining managing directors are not successful in retaining client relationships of a departing managing director. We have entered into employment contracts with Ralph B. Mandell, our Chairman, Larry D. Richman, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and numerous other executive officers and managing directors. Despite these agreements, there can be no assurance that any of these individuals will decide to remain employed by us or that our business will be protected by various covenants not to compete or covenants not to solicit our clients that are contained in these agreements. We may not be able to access sufficient and cost-effective sources of liquidity necessary to fund our continued and anticipated balance sheet growth. We depend on access to a variety of funding sources, including deposits, to provide sufficient liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our clients, including funding our loan growth. Currently, our primary sources of liquidity are our clients’ deposits, as well as brokered deposits, federal funds borrowings, the Federal Reserve Bank Discount Window, Federal Home Loan Bank advances, proceeds from the sale of investment securities, proceeds from the sale of additional equity or trust preferred securities and 25 Table of Contents subordinated debt, and amounts available under our credit facility (which consists of a $20 million revolving loan and a $120 million subordinated term loan). Our Plan anticipates continued robust loan growth, especially in commercial loans. To the extent our deposit growth is not commensurate with or lags significantly behind our loan growth, we may not be able to fund this growth, or may need to access alternative, more expensive funding sources, including increasing our reliance on brokered deposits. Addressing these funding needs will be even more challenging as the amount of brokered deposits we utilize approaches our internal policy limits or if the Federal Home Loan Bank, in response to current U.S. financial conditions, places more stringent requirements on a financial institution’s ability to borrow funds. Likewise, the federal funds market has experienced a high degree of volatility and disruption since the middle of 2008, and this is an important short term liquidity source for us. If in the future additional cost-effective funding is not available on terms satisfactory to us or at all, we may need to curtail our loan growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations and earnings. Our holding company’s liquidity position is affected by the amount of cash and other liquid assets on hand, payment of interest and dividends on debt and equity instruments issued by the holding company, capital we inject into the Banks, redemption of debt issued by the holding company, proceeds we raise through the issuance of debt and equity instruments through the holding company, draws on existing credit facilities at the holding company level and dividends received from the Banks. Our future liquidity position may be adversely affected if in the future one or a combination of the following events occurs: the Banks report net losses or their earnings are weak relative to our holding company cashflow needs, we are required to use cash at the holding company level to support loan growth of the Banks through downstream capital injections, and we are encumbered in our ability to raise cash at the holding company level through the issuance of debt or equity instruments or to access additional sources of credit. If we project liquidity weakness at the holding company level, we may manage this risk by reducing the amount of capital we inject into the Banks, thus causing our loan growth to slow. This, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations and earnings. We may not be able to raise additional capital necessary to fund our growth and remain well-capitalized. Our ability to raise additional capital to support our growth and meet minimum regulatory capital requirements at the holding company and at each of our bank subsidiaries is dependent on us being able to efficiently and cost-effectively access the capital markets. Accordingly, we must continue to be able to issue additional equity securities, trust preferred securities and/or debt when and in the amounts we deem necessary, and there must be ready purchasers of our securities willing to invest in us. However, events or circumstances in the capital markets generally that are beyond our control may adversely affect our capital costs, our ability to raise capital at any given time and the dilution consequences of any common equity raise we may undertake. For instance, the capital and credit markets continue to experience high levels of volatility and disruption. In certain cases, especially in the case of stocks of financial institutions, the markets have produced significant downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength or condition. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, including earnings per share dilution or an inability to access capital. Our inability to raise additional capital on terms satisfactory to us or at all may affect our ability to grow and would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and our regulatory capital ratios and those of our subsidiary banks. Our participation in the U.S. Department of Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program subjects us to certain restrictions. On January 30, 2009, we issued approximately $243.8 million of our senior preferred stock and warrants to purchase 1,290,026 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $28.35 per share to the 26 Table of Contents U.S. Department of the Treasury (the “Treasury”) under its Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”). The CPP is authorized by the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and permits the Treasury to purchase up to $250 billion of senior preferred shares on a voluntary basis in U.S. financial institutions. The program is part of the government’s effort to restore liquidity and stability to the U.S. financial system. Based on our participation in the CPP, we agreed to comply with the terms and conditions of the program, which subjects us to certain restrictions. For example, we may not without the consent of the Treasury increase our dividend or, subject to certain exceptions, engage in repurchases of our common stock and trust preferred securities for three years or, if earlier, the date on which all preferred stock issued to the Treasury has been redeemed or transferred. The program also subjects us to additional executive compensation restrictions, which may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain highly-qualified senior executive officers. Additional executive compensation and corporate governance restrictions were also enacted on February 17, 2009 as part of The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. These additional restrictions, which affect all banks participating in the CPP, may further negatively impact our ability to attract and retain senior executive officers. Furthermore, under the terms of the securities purchase agreement we entered into with Treasury, Treasury will be able to unilaterally amend the agreement to make it consistent with any subsequent statutory provisions implemented by Congress. We expect the Treasury, our bank regulators and other agencies of the U.S. Government to monitor our use of the CPP proceeds. Our failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the program or the securities purchase agreement may subject us to a regulatory enforcement action or legal proceedings brought by the U.S. Government. We cannot predict the impact on us of recently enacted legislation, in particular the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, and its implementing regulations and actions by the FDIC. The programs established or to be established under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, including the CPP, will result in increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Similarly, programs established by the FDIC under the systemic risk exception to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, whether we participate or not, may have an adverse effect on us. Participation in the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program likely will require the payment of additional insurance premiums to the FDIC. We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums even if we do not participate in the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The impact on our business as a result of participating or not participating in any such programs, and the extent of our participation in such programs, cannot reliably be determined at this time. Continued tightening of the credit markets and instability in the financial markets could adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers including other financial institutions. This has resulted in less available credit, a lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity. A sustained period of such conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a financial services company, a sustained deterioration in general business or economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Recently the strength of the U.S. economy in general and the strength of the local economies in each of the markets where our banking offices are located has declined. A sustained deterioration in the 27 Table of Contents national or local business or economic conditions could result in, among other things, a deterioration of credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant effect on our loan portfolio and allowance for loan losses. These factors could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods especially given our exposure to residential development lending, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Continued, sustained weakness in business and economic conditions generally or in our markets specifically could have one or more of the following adverse impacts on our business: • a decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; • a decrease in the value of our loans held for sale or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate; • an increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. Our operating results are largely dependent on our net interest income. Fluctuations in interest rates may significantly affect our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on earning assets, usually loans and investment securities, and the interest expense paid on deposits and borrowings. The interest rate environment over the last year has continued to compress our net interest margin. Over the long term, we expect our net interest margin to benefit during a rising rate environment and alternatively, if market rates decrease, we expect our net interest margin to continue to decrease. We are unable to predict fluctuations in interest rates, which are affected by factors including: monetary policy of the Federal Reserve, inflation or deflation, recession, unemployment rates, money supply, domestic and foreign events, and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. As a continuing part of our financial strategy, we attempt to manage the effect of fluctuations in market interest rates on our net interest income. This effort entails providing a reasonable balance between interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and maintenance of yield. Our asset/liability management policy is established by the Business Risk Committee of our Board of Directors and is monitored by management. Our asset/liability management policy sets standards within which we are expected to operate. These standards include guidelines for exposure to interest rate fluctuations, liquidity, loan limits as a percentage of funding sources, exposure to correspondent banks and brokers, and reliance on non-core deposits. Our asset/liability policy may not be able to prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our investment portfolio also contains interest rate sensitive instruments, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates or spreads caused by governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, issuer or insurer credit deterioration and other factors beyond our control. A rise in interest rates or spread widening would reduce the net unrealized gain position of our investment portfolio, offset by our ability to earn higher rates of return on funds reinvested. Conversely, a decline in interest rates or spread compression would increase the net unrealized gain position of our investment portfolio, offset by lower rates of return on funds reinvested. 28 Table of Contents Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. Every loan we make carries a certain risk of non-payment. This risk is affected by, among other things: • the credit risks posed by the particular borrower; • changes in economic and industry conditions; • the duration of the loan; and • in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral. We maintain an allowance for loan losses sufficient to absorb credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The allowance for loan losses represents our estimate of probable losses in the portfolio at each balance sheet date and is supported by all available and relevant information. The allowance contains provisions for probable losses that have been identified relating to specific borrowing relationships, as well as probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio and credit undertakings that are not specifically identified. Loan quality is continually monitored by management and reviewed by committees of our Boards of Directors and the Banks on a quarterly basis. The amount of additions to the allowance for loan losses, which is charged to earnings through the provision for loan losses, is determined based on a variety of factors, including: • assessment of the credit risk of the portfolio, • evaluation of loans classified as special mention, sub-standard and doubtful, • delinquent loans, • evaluation of current economic conditions in the market area, • actual charge-offs during the year, • historical loss experience, and • industry loss averages. As a percentage of total loans, the allowance was 1.40% at December 31, 2008. Over the past year, we increased our allowance as a percentage of total loans based on management’s analysis of our credit quality, including a significant increase in non-performing loans, and other factors. Our regulators review the adequacy of our allowance and, through the examination process, have authority to compel us to increase our allowance even if we believe it is adequate. We cannot predict whether our regulators would ever compel us to increase our allowance. Although we believe our loan loss allowance is adequate to absorb probable and reasonably estimable losses in our loan portfolio, the allowance may not be adequate. If our actual loan losses exceed the amount that is anticipated, our earnings could suffer. The creditworthiness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other banks. Banks are interrelated as a result of lending, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more banks, or the banking industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of the transactions engaged in by us and our banking subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or customer. In such instances, the collateral held by us may be insufficient to mitigate our losses, as we may be unable to realize or liquidate at prices sufficient to recover the full amount of the exposure due us. Such losses could have a material and adverse affect on our results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. To date, we have grown our business successfully by focusing on our target markets and clientele and emphasizing consistent delivery of the high level of service and responsiveness desired by our clients. We compete for loans, deposits, wealth management and other financial services in our geographic markets with other commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions and brokerage firms operating in the markets we serve. Many of our competitors offer products and services which we do not, and many have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Also, technological advances and the continued growth of internet-based banking and financial services have made it possible for non-depositary institutions to offer a variety of products and services competitive with certain areas of our business. As we have grown, we have become increasingly dependent on outside funding sources, including brokered deposits, where we face nationwide competition. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies, federally insured, state-chartered banks, federal savings banks, and national banks. As a result, these nonbank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various products and services. Our success in this competitive environment requires consistent investment of capital and human resources. This investment is directed at generating new products and services, and adapting existing products and services to the evolving standards and demands of our clients. Among other things, this helps us maintain a mix of products and services that keeps pace with our competitors and achieves acceptable margins, an important strategic goal. This investment also focuses on enhancing the delivery of our products and services in order to compete successfully for new clients or additional business from existing clients, and includes investment in technology. Falling behind our competition in any of these areas could adversely affect our business opportunities and growth, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to maintain a competitive advantage as a premier middle-market commercial bank is highly dependent on our reputation. Our clients trust The PrivateBank to deliver superior, highly-personalized financial services with the highest standards of ethics, performance, professionalism and compliance. Damage to our reputation could undermine the confidence of our current and potential clients in our ability to service them, as well as the confidence of counterparties, business partners and our stockholders, and ultimately affect our ability to manage our balance sheet or effect transactions. The maintenance of our reputation depends not only on our success in controlling and mitigating the various risks described above, but also on our success in identifying and appropriately addressing issues that may arise in areas such as potential conflicts of interest, anti-money laundering, client personal information and privacy issues, record-keeping, regulatory investigations and any litigation that may arise from the failure or perceived failure of us to comply with legal and regulatory requirements. We are highly regulated and may be adversely affected by changes in banking laws, regulations, and regulatory practices, including the extraordinary actions being taken by the U.S. government in response to the recent financial crises. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The Federal Reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans 30 Table of Contents and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. Additionally, our Bank subsidiaries also are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by various federal and state authorities and, as an affiliate of our subsidiary Banks, we are also subject, to some extent, to regulation by these authorities. These regulations affect in a comprehensive manner our entire business, including our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. Changes in laws, regulations and regulatory practices affecting the financial services industry, and the effects of such changes, including the federal government’s response or lack of response to the ongoing financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets, are difficult to predict and may have unintended consequences. New regulations or changes in the regulatory environment could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. These changes also can adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Any failure on our part to comply with or adapt to changes in the regulatory environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. PrivateBancorp relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its revenues. PrivateBancorp is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. It receives substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Banks and certain non-bank subsidiaries may pay to the holding company. In the event the Banks are unable to pay dividends to PrivateBancorp, it may not be able to service its debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Banks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Supervision and Regulation.” We rely on the services of third parties to provide services that are integral to our operations. We rely on third-party service providers to support our operations. In particular, in our wealth management business, we have not, in the past, provided investment management services directly through our own personnel. Rather, we have relied, and continue to rely, upon selected outside investment managers to provide investment advice and asset management services to our clients. We cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain these arrangements on favorable terms. Also, many of the investment managers with whom we work are affiliated with our competitors in the financial services field. We cannot be sure that our investment managers will continue to work with us in these arrangements or that our clients will continue to utilize the services of these investment managers through us, rather than directly from the investment management firms themselves. The loss of any of these outside investment managers may affect our ability to provide our clients with quality service or certain types of portfolio management without incurring the cost of replacing them. We also are dependent on third-party service providers for data processing and other information processing systems that support our day-to-day banking, investment, and trust activities and on third-party providers of products and services on a private label basis that are integral to our banking and wealth management relationships with our clients. Any disruption in the services provided by these third parties could have an adverse effect on our operations and our ability to meet our clients’ needs. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, or other systems. We have policies and procedures expressly designed to prevent or limit the effect of a failure, interruption, or security breach of its systems. However, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions, or security 31 Table of Contents breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that the impact will not be substantial. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of our systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our accounting policies and methods are critical to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. They require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. Accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report the financial condition and results of operations. Management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles. Management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management’s judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments and contingencies. A variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, or reducing a liability. We have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. Because of the uncertainty surrounding our judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements. See the “Critical Accounting Policies” section in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-K for more information. Our conclusion that it is more likely than not that our deferred tax asset will be realized is dependent on a number of factors, including our near-term earnings and taxable income projections. To the extent these or certain other assumptions change materially, we may need to establish a valuation allowance against all or part of the deferred tax asset, which would adversely affect our results of operations and capital levels and ratios. At December 31, 2008, we had $68.6 million of deferred tax assets. In assessing whether a valuation allowance against these deferred tax assets was needed at December 31, 2008, we considered a number of positive factors. These included the expectation of reversing taxable temporary differences in future periods, including the unrealized gain in our securities portfolio, and our expectation of generating a significant amount of taxable income over a relatively short time period. We also considered the negative evidence associated with generating a cumulative pre-tax loss for financial statement purposes, using a trailing three-year period for purposes of this cumulative assessment. Our taxable income projections, which for this purpose are determined without regard to reversing temporary differences, are dependent in large part on our ability to significantly reverse our earnings results from 2008. We believe such a turnaround is likely, given that our 2008 results had substantial charges associated with our Plan, including certain compensation costs and credit charges that we do not believe will be recurring. In addition, the estimated timing of when deferred deductible items, such as loan charge-offs, are expected to reverse also supports our conclusion that a valuation allowance is not needed. Even though we believe a turnaround in our earnings performance in 2009 is likely, it is also highly likely that in 2009 and into 2010, we will continue to be in a cumulative pre-tax loss for financial statement purposes, using a trailing three-year timeframe. This will continue to be negative evidence in the assessment of whether a deferred tax asset valuation allowance is needed. To the extent some of the positive evidence that we are relying on in our assessment fails to materialize, (e.g. a failure to meet our internal earnings or taxable income forecasts, a substantial reduction in the unrealized gain in the 32 Table of Contents investment securities portfolio or a conclusion that we need to change certain other assumptions), we may need to establish a valuation allowance against all or part of the deferred tax asset. In addition, even if we continue to conclude that a valuation allowance is not needed for GAAP, we could be required to disallow all or a portion of the net deferred tax asset for bank regulatory purposes. The assessment of whether the net deferred tax asset is disallowed, in whole or in part, for regulatory purposes is based on regulatory guidelines, which in some cases, are more restrictive than those of GAAP. Although a disallowed deferred tax asset for regulatory purposes would not impact our results of operations, it would reduce our regulatory capital ratios. Goodwill is an intangible asset and is subject to periodic impairment analysis. Certain facts or circumstances may indicate impairment that may lead us to recording an expense to write down this asset. We had $95.0 million in goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2008. Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired using the purchase method of accounting. Our goodwill was created as a result of several acquisitions we completed in prior years. Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment or more often if events or circumstances indicate there may be impairment. If our stock price falls below our book value per share, this may signal a possible impairment of goodwill and we may need to undertake an impairment analysis before the end of 2009. Our impairment determination would rely on, among other factors, a discounted cash flow analysis based on internal financial forecasts. If the discounted cash flow analysis led us to a conclusion that the fair value was below its book value, it is more likely than not that we would incur an impairment charge for some or all of our goodwill. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. Various factors could depress the price of and affect trading activity in our common stock. The price of our common stock can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations; • earnings estimates and recommendations of securities analysts; • the performance and stock price of other companies that investors and analysts deem comparable to us; • the soundness or predicted soundness of other financial institutions; • news reports regarding trends and issues in the financial services industry; • actual or anticipated changes in the economy, the real estate markets, and interest rates; • our capital markets activities; • announcements of strategic developments, mergers, acquisitions and other material developments involving our peers; • delays in, or a failure to realize the anticipated benefits of, an acquisition; 33 Table of Contents • changes in legislation or regulation impacting the financial services industry in particular, or publicly traded companies in general; • changes in economic policy of the U.S. Treasury and the Federal Reserve concerning management of the current financial crisis; • regulatory enforcement or other actions against PrivateBancorp or its affiliates; and • general market fluctuations. Fluctuations in our stock price may make it more difficult for you to sell your shares of our common stock at an attractive price. Any future sales of our shares of common or preferred stock will dilute our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We expect that we will need to raise additional capital to support our growth and, if warranted, to meet minimum regulatory capital requirements. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock or preferred stock (or the perception that such sales could occur), including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. The issuance of additional common stock will further dilute the ownership interest of our existing common stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 