ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. The risks discussed below are those that we believe are the most significant risks affecting us and our business, although additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant may also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. Before making a decision to invest in our securities, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this report. Risks related to our business Our business has been, and will continue to be, affected by the stress in the commercial real estate market. The real estate market continues to experience a variety of difficulties and challenging economic conditions. In particular, market conditions in the Chicago metropolitan area remain stressed. If the economy generally, or the real estate market specifically, does not improve or experiences further deterioration, we could suffer losses against commercial real estate and construction loans in excess of what we have provided for in the allowance for loan losses. Since the beginning of 2009, when our commercial real estate and construction loans totaled $3.58 billion, we have recorded $299 million in charge-offs to those portions of the loan portfolio. At December 31, 2011, our commercial real estate and construction loans totaled $2.9 billion, and included $212 million in special mention and potential problem loans, and $155 million in non-performing loans. At December 31, 2011, we allocated $64 million in general reserves and $44 million in specific reserves to the commercial real estate and construction loan portfolios. Our commercial real estate and construction loan portfolios include loans with large principal amounts and the repayment of these loans is generally dependent on the successful leasing or sale of the property, the successful operation of the business occupying the property, the cost and time frame of constructing or improving a property and the availability of permanent financing. The repayment of these loans is particularly influenced by general conditions in the real estate markets or in the local economy where the property is located. Many commercial real estate and construction loans do not fully amortize the balance over the loan period, but have balloon payments due at maturity. The borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment may depend on their ability to either refinance the loan or complete a timely sale of the underlying property. The borrower’s inability to use funds generated by a project to service a loan until a project is completed, and the more pronounced risk to interest rate movements and the real estate market that these borrowers face while a project is being completed or seeking a buyer, can also make construction loans more vulnerable to risk of default. On a non-owner occupied commercial property, if the cash flow from a borrower’s project is reduced due to leases not being obtained or renewed, that borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. We depend on a liquid market in order to sell property that we acquire through foreclosure (OREO) in a cost effective and timely manner. If the real estate market continues to experience difficulties and challenging economic conditions, we may have difficulty selling foreclosed property at values we consider reasonable, particularly land, which may result in increased losses and carrying costs. At December 31, 2011, OREO totaled $125.7 million. Our loan portfolio is comprised of commercial and industrial loans, many of which include larger credit relationships, and the repayment of which is largely dependent upon the financial success and viability of the borrower and the state of the economy. Our loan portfolio is significantly comprised of commercial and industrial loans, many of which involve larger credit relationships that expose us to significant concentration of credit risk. At December 31, 2011 and consistent with 2010, we had 78 unique obligors with credit commitments of $25 million or more totaling $2.5 billion. Over 90% of such commitments at December 31, 2011 are secured by collateral. Of this total commitment, $1.1 billion, or 12% of our loan portfolio, has been used. The 21 Table of Contents remaining $1.4 billion relates to unused or partially drawn commitments. Approximately 85% of these large obligors are commercial and industrial businesses; the remaining exposure is related to commercial real estate loans. Of our largest commitments, five individual obligors had commitments of $50 million or more at December 31, 2011, totaling $302.5 million of which $15.0 million has been drawn, compared to $362.5 million at December 31, 2010 of which $46.6 million was drawn. Depending on collateral values, success of a workout strategy or the ability of a borrower to return to performing status, the unexpected occurrence of an event or development adversely impacting one or more of our large clients could materially affect our results of operation and financial condition. The repayment of the loans in our commercial and industrial portfolio is dependent upon the financial success and viability of the borrower. If the economy remains weak for a prolonged period or experiences further deterioration or if the industry or market in which the borrower operates weakens, our borrowers may experience depressed or dramatic and sudden decreases in revenues that could hinder their ability to repay their loans. Our commercial and industrial loan portfolio, which includes owner-occupied commercial real estate, totaled $5.4 billion, or 60% of our total loan portfolio, at December 31, 2011, compared to $4.9 billion, or 53% of our total loan portfolio, at December 31, 2010. Many of our commercial and industrial loans are secured by different types of collateral related to the underlying business, such as accounts receivable, inventory and equipment, which fluctuate in value. Should a commercial and industrial loan default require us to foreclose on underlying collateral, we may not recover the principal amount of the loan and the unique nature of certain collateral may make it more difficult and costly to liquidate. Within our commercial lending business, we have a specialized niche in the nursing and residential care segment of the healthcare industry. At December 31, 2011, 23% of the commercial loan portfolio or $1.2 billion was composed of loans within the healthcare industry, primarily loans in which the facilities securing the loans are dependent, in part, on the receipt of payments and reimbursements under government contracts for services provided. Our clients and their ability to service debt may be adversely impacted by the health of state or federal budgets and the ability of such governments, many of which have experienced budgetary stress in the recent economic environment, to make payments for services previously provided. As of December 31, 2011, 55% of the healthcare portfolio was secured by facilities in five states, with Illinois representing the highest percentage of facilities at 18%. Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. Every loan we make carries a certain risk of non-payment. This risk is affected by, among other things: • the credit risks posed by the particular borrower and loan type; • changes in economic and industry conditions; • the duration of the loan; • in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral; and • the ability to identify potential repayment issues in loans at an early stage. We maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level management believes is sufficient to absorb credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The allowance for loan losses is assessed quarterly and represents an accounting estimate of probable losses in the portfolio at each balance sheet date based on a review of available and relevant information at that time. The allowance is not a prediction of our actual credit losses going forward. The allowance contains provisions for probable losses that have been identified relating to specific borrowing relationships that are considered to be impaired, as well as probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio that are not specifically identified, which is determined using a methodology that is a function of quantitative and qualitative factors applied to segments of our loan portfolio and management’s judgment. The calculation of the allowance involves a great deal of judgment and uncertainty particularly given the state of the overall economy, the continuing stress in the real estate market, and negative events or circumstances that might impact an individual borrower. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will not incur losses on loans greater than what we have provided for in the allowance. The allowance for loan losses was $191.6 million at December 31, 2011, compared to $222.8 million at December 31, 2010. The allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 2.13% at December 31, 2011, compared to 2.44% at December 31, 2010. Our allowance as a percentage of total loans reflects a level based on management’s analysis of the risk inherent in our loan portfolio. Although we believe our loan loss allowance is adequate to absorb probable and reasonably estimable losses in our loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date, the allowance may not be adequate especially if economic conditions worsen or the factors used to calculate the allowance change. Our regulators also review the adequacy of our allowance and although they have never done so, do have authority to compel us to increase our allowance in current or future periods. A large portion of our loan portfolio was originated since 2007 when we initiated a strategic plan to transform the bank into a leading middle market commercial bank. The behavior of a portfolio of more mature loans may be more predictable based on past performance history than a newer portfolio, such as ours. In calculating the allowance, we use historical default and loss information. 22 Table of Contents For those segments of our portfolio that are less seasoned, such as our commercial and industrial portfolio, the available historical default and loss data is more limited, making it more difficult to estimate the probable losses inherent in those portfolios. As a result, the current level of delinquencies and defaults may not be representative of the level that will occur when the newer portion of the portfolio becomes more seasoned, which may be higher than current levels. In the event we are required to increase our allowance for loan losses, our credit losses exceed our allowance or we are required to take higher than anticipated charge-offs in future periods, our earnings and our capital will be adversely affected. We may experience variability in our quarterly loan loss provision expense and charge-offs if larger credits default, which may impact credit quality trends. We may be required to hold higher capital levels. Under applicable regulatory guidelines, we are subject to minimum capital requirements adopted and administered by the federal banking agencies. The current economic environment and the challenges facing many financial institutions, however, have resulted in heightened capital expectations from the federal banking agencies, particularly with respect to financial institutions experiencing credit challenges in their loan portfolios. Rulemaking proposals under Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III could ultimately impose capital requirements that are more stringent than current requirements and expectations and may limit the use of subordinated debt or similar instruments to meet capital requirements. Future issuances of trust preferred securities have been disallowed as Tier 1 qualifying capital under Dodd-Frank Act, although our currently outstanding trust preferred securities have been grandfathered for Tier 1 eligibility. The Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III also require regulatory agencies to seek to make capital requirements for bank holding companies countercyclical, so that capital requirements increase in times of economic expansion and decrease in times of economic contraction. Because many of the implementing rules have not yet been finalized or even proposed, there is continuing uncertainty surrounding the rulemaking and interpretations under the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III and the level of capital that will be deemed adequate for our risk profile, as well as market expectations regarding adequate capital levels We currently manage our balance sheet to maintain capital ratios at levels above the minimum regulatory guidelines that we deem adequate for our risk profile and expect to manage growth within our existing capital base. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to maintain capital at these levels or at levels required or expected by our regulators or future laws and regulations, especially considering the uncertainty surrounding such future laws and interpretations. Our capital position may be affected by credit losses and credit deterioration, potential asset impairment, significant draws on our unfunded commitments, or unexpected asset growth. We may be required to raise capital to maintain capital at appropriate levels. The terms on which we are able to raise capital, such as capital costs and dilutive impact on shareholders, will be dependent upon our access to the capital markets and will be influenced by events, circumstances and risks that are specific to us and the banking industry. The success of our business is dependent on ongoing access to sufficient and cost-effective sources of liquidity. We depend on access to a variety of funding sources to provide sufficient liquidity to meet our lending commitments and business needs and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our clients, including funding new loans and client draws on unused lines of credit. As of December 31, 2011, we had a total of $4.1 billion of unfunded commitments to extend credit. Currently, our primary sources of liquidity are client deposits, large institutional deposits, and wholesale market-based borrowings, including brokered deposits. In addition to on-balance sheet liquidity and funding, we maintain access to various external sources of funding. These external sources of funding include Federal Fund counterparty lines, repurchase agreements, the discount window at the Federal Reserve Bank, Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) borrowings and the brokered deposit market. Our ability to access these external sources depends on availability in the market place and a number of factors such as counterparty relationship strength in the case of Federal Fund counterparty lines and repurchase agreements or the availability of loans eligible under the Federal Reserve’s and the FHLB’s criteria (e.g., stipulations of documentation requirements, credit quality, payment status and other criteria). If our primary sources of liquidity are insufficient and we are unable to adequately access external sources, we may be required to increase our on-balance sheet liquidity and funding by accessing the capital markets, which may not be cost effective or may have a dilutive effect on our shareholders. Since 2009, we have experienced a significant increase in client deposits. This has allowed us to reduce our reliance on wholesale funding sources. However, there can be no assurance that this level of client deposit growth will continue or remain at current levels or that we will be able to maintain the lower reliance on wholesale deposits. As returns in the equity markets improve, when the economy improves, interest rates rise or if the current eligibility for unlimited FDIC insurance coverage is eliminated, some of our client deposits may move to other investment options, which may lead to increased reliance on wholesale or other funding sources. 23 Table of Contents In addition, because our deposit base is relatively concentrated given our core commercial banking strategy, the loss of large client relationships could negatively impact our liquidity. At December 31, 2011, we had 13 client relationships with greater than $75 million in deposit balances and our ten largest depositor accounts totaled $1.9 billion, or 19% of total deposits. We are highly dependent upon the current cash position of the holding company to meet holding company liquidity needs and to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock for the foreseeable future. At December 31, 2011, the holding company had cash and liquid investments totaling $150 million. The loss of key managing directors may adversely affect our operations. We are a relationship-driven organization. Our growth and development during the past four years can be attributed in large part to the efforts of our managing directors who have primary contact with our clients and who are extremely important in maintaining personalized relationships with our client base, which is a key aspect of our business strategy. The loss of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations if we are unable to replace these employees or we are unable to successfully retain the client relationships of a departing managing director. To the extent weak financial performance, restrictions on compensation due to our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program, limitations on available equity awards, or regulatory guidance impact our ability to offer competitive pay programs, we may not be successful in motivating and retaining key employees. Our business could be significantly impacted if we suffer failure or disruptions of our information systems. We rely heavily on communications, data processing and other information processing systems to conduct our business and support our day-to-day banking, investment, and trust activities, many of which are provided through third-parties. Although we take ongoing protective monitoring, detection, and prevention measures and perform penetration testing and risk assessments at least annually, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information), account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses or other malicious code, or cyberattacks beyond what we can reasonably anticipate and such events could result in material loss. We could suffer disruptions to our systems or damage to our network infrastructure from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as electrical or telecommunications outages, natural disasters, widespread health emergencies or pandemics, or events arising from local or larger scale political events, including terrorist acts. We outsource data processing and other functions to third parties. If our third party providers encounter difficulties or become the source of an attack on or breach of operational systems, data or infrastructure, or if we have difficulty communicating with any such third party system, our business operations could suffer. Any failure or disruption to our systems, or those of a third party provider, could impede our service delivery, customer relationship management, data processing, financial reporting or risk management. There can be no assurance that our policies, procedures and protective measures designed to prevent or limit the effect of a failure, interruption or security breach will be effective, and if significant failure, interruption or security breaches does occur, we could suffer damage to our reputation, a loss of customer business, additional regulatory scrutiny, or exposure to civil litigation, additional costs and possible financial liability. If we fail to maintain adequate infrastructure, systems, controls and personnel relative to our size and products and services, our ability to effectively operate our business may be impaired and our business could be adversely affected. Our participation in the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program subjects us to certain restrictions. On January 30, 2009, we issued approximately $243.8 million of our senior preferred stock and warrants to purchase shares of common stock at an exercise price of $28.35 per share to the Treasury under the TARP CPP. Based on our participation in the CPP, we agreed to comply with its terms and conditions, which subjects us to certain restrictions, oversight, costs and compliance and reputational risks. For example, we may not, without the consent of the Treasury, increase our dividend, currently $0.01 per share per quarter, above a rate of $0.075 per quarter or, subject to certain exceptions, engage in repurchases of our common stock or trust preferred securities until January 30, 2012 or, if earlier, the date on which all preferred stock issued to the Treasury has been redeemed or transferred by the Treasury. Our participation in the CPP also subjects us to additional executive compensation and other restrictions, which may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain highly-qualified senior executive officers and other employees, particularly in light of the fact that some of the financial institutions with which we compete are not subject to the restrictions imposed by the CPP. Furthermore, under the terms of the securities purchase agreement we entered into with the Treasury, the Treasury will be able to unilaterally amend the agreement to make it consistent with any subsequent statutory provisions implemented by Congress. If we fail to comply with the terms and conditions of the program or the securities purchase agreement, including any restrictions upon our use of the CPP proceeds, we could become subject to a regulatory enforcement action or legal proceedings brought by the U.S. government, which, in turn, would present significant reputational risks for us that could affect our ability to retain or attract new clients or investors (if and when we determine to raise additional capital) or both. 24 Table of Contents We have counterparty risk; the creditworthiness of other financial institutions could expose us to losses on contracts we have with these institutions and could adversely affect our ability to provide services to our clients, specifically products and services relating to foreign exchange, derivatives and letters of credit. Our ability to provide certain products and service could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other banks. Banks are interrelated as a result of lending, clearing, correspondent, counterparty and other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more banks, or the banking industry generally, have in the past led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of the transactions engaged in by us in the ordinary course of business, particularly in our capital markets group; expose us to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or customer. In such instances, the collateral we hold may be insufficient to mitigate our losses, as we may be unable to realize or liquidate at prices sufficient to recover the full amount of our exposure. Such losses could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our capital markets group offers an extensive range of over-the-counter interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives products. Although we do not engage in any proprietary trading and we structure these client-generated trading activities to mitigate our exposure to market risk, we remain exposed to various risks, the most significant of which include credit risk of our counterparties, operational risk and settlement risk, which may be most significant in foreign exchange transactions where timing differences between settlement centers can result in us paying our client and/or counterparty before actually receiving the funds. The exposure of our counterparties requires active monitoring as well as liquidity management to ensure timely and cost efficient posting of collateral. Operational risk includes errors in execution of internal bank procedures and controls, which could expose us to financial and/or reputation loss. A lapse or breakdown of these procedures or controls could significantly increase our exposure to counterparty credit risk and operational risk, which could result in a material loss to us. Risks related to our operating environment Weak economic conditions could continue to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Various segments of the U.S. economy have been in a prolonged and deep slowdown over the past four years, and there is continuing uncertainty, volatility and stress in the U.S. economy and the local economies in each of our markets. Continued and sustained periods of uncertainty, prolonged periods of unemployment, volatility or further deterioration in the international, national or local business or economic conditions could result in, among other things, a further deterioration of credit quality, including a resultant effect on our loan portfolio and allowance for loan losses, and a reduced demand for credit. In addition, higher corporate taxes in the State of Illinois may contribute to an adverse climate for doing business in the state. Continued sustained weakness and uncertainty in business and economic conditions generally, or in our markets specifically, could adversely impact our business through: • more clients and counterparties becoming delinquent, filing for protection under bankruptcy laws or defaulting on their loans or other obligations to us; • a decrease in the value of the collateral underlying loans, requiring paydowns by our borrowers to remain in loan-to-value compliance, restricting borrower access to liquidity as defined by borrowing arrangements or, alternatively, resulting in a default; • a decrease in the value of any loans that we may hold for sale or property acquired upon default; • lengthy holding periods required to liquidate property acquired upon default or loans held for sale, thereby increasing carrying costs and potentially impacting market values; and • sluggish demand for loans and other products and services offered by us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults in future periods could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan and covered asset losses, and valuation adjustments on any loans held for sale, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. Our operating results are largely dependent on our net interest income. Fluctuations in interest rates may significantly affect our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on earning assets, usually loans and investment securities, and the interest expense paid on deposits and borrowings. We are unable to predict fluctuations in interest rates, which are affected by factors including: monetary policy of the FRB, actual inflation or deflation or expectations regarding the same, recession, unemployment rates, money supply, domestic and foreign events, and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. The timing of any FRB action to curtail or eliminate various stimulus-related programs, as a result of inflation concerns or otherwise, could have an impact on interest rates in general and our net interest margin in particular. 25 Table of Contents Our investment portfolio also contains interest rate sensitive instruments that may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates or spreads caused by governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, issuer or insurer credit deterioration and other factors beyond our control. A rise in interest rates or spread widening would reduce the net unrealized gains currently reflected in our investment portfolio and slowdown prepayment, offset by our ability to earn higher rates of return on funds reinvested. Demand for the products or services of our capital markets group could be negatively impacted by interest rate changes and a decrease in sales volumes from this group could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Global economic uncertainty and the potential for a deterioration in the European sovereign debt crisis may adversely affect the financial services industry and could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Continuing uncertainty in the economic, political and financial markets and the ongoing sovereign debt crisis in Europe could impact our customers and could negatively affect our credit portfolio and liquidity position. There have been recent periods of extreme volatility in the global financial markets and the financial turmoil and uncertainty with respect to the euro zone crisis could threaten the stability of the global banking system and the Company’s financial condition. Continuing uncertainty and volatility or a disruption in the global financial markets could impact the Company’s financial condition to the extent it causes stress on the United States financial services industry. The Company also faces risks related to our counterparties who may have exposure in European sovereign debt holdings, particularly those countries experiencing significant economic, fiscal or political strains. Although we had no direct funded or non-funded exposure to European sovereign or non-sovereign entities in either our Held-to-Maturity or Available-for-Sale portfolios as of December 31, 2011, we conduct business with European financial institutions headquartered in the United Kingdom, Switzerland, France, and Germany, related to repurchase agreements, interest rate swaps, balance sheet hedging, foreign exchange transactions and letter of credit issuance. As is common market practice, certain of our interest rate derivatives and letter of credit transactions with such European financial institutions are collateralized with investment securities that we have been required to pledge to the counterparty institution. Should one of these counterparties experience significant financial distress, those securities could become so-called trapped collateral pending resolution of any applicable proceedings. In addition, although we primarily lend to U.S. commercial clients, the operations, and therefore financial stability, of some of those clients may be affected by disruption or volatility in Europe. Further, the Company may have direct and/or indirect exposure to foreign subsidiaries and affiliates of U.S. domiciled commercial clients. Such subsidiaries and affiliates may be co-borrowers or guarantors of the U.S. client’s credit facilities. In some cases, assets or stock of such subsidiaries or affiliates may be pledged to secure payment and performance of certain credit facilities. At this time, we cannot predict the impact this may have on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks related to the financial services industry We are highly regulated and may be adversely affected by changes in banking laws, regulations, and regulatory practices. We are subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination. This regulatory structure gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies to address not only compliance with applicable laws and regulations (including laws and regulations governing consumer credit, and anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws), but also capital adequacy, asset quality and risk, management ability and performance, earnings, liquidity, and various other factors. As part of this regulatory structure, we are subject to policies and other guidance developed by the regulatory agencies with respect to capital levels, the timing and amount of dividend payments, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. Under this structure the regulatory agencies have broad discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on our operations if they determine, among other things, that our operations are unsafe or unsound, fail to comply with applicable law or are otherwise inconsistent with laws and regulations or with the supervisory policies of these agencies. This supervisory framework could materially impact the conduct, growth and profitability of our operations. Any failure on our part to comply with current laws, regulations, other regulatory requirements or expectations or safe and sound banking practices or concerns about our financial condition, or any related regulatory sanctions or adverse actions against us, could increase our costs or restrict our ability to expand our business and result in damage to our reputation. Changes in laws, regulations and other regulatory requirements affecting the financial services industry, and the effects of such changes, are difficult to predict and may have unintended consequences. New regulations or changes in the regulatory environment could limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. These changes also can adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. The impact of the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act is still uncertain, is expected to increase our regulatory compliance burden and costs of doing business and could result in enhanced capital and leverage requirements and restrictions on certain products and services we offer. In July 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act which significantly changes the financial regulatory landscape and will affect the operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies as well as others. Although many of the details of the Dodd-Frank Act and the full impact it will have on our business or revenues are 26 Table of Contents uncertain at this point, in part because many of the provisions require the adoption of implementing rules and regulations, the burden of compliance with the new law and its rules and regulations will increase operating costs and may reduce revenue. In addition to capital requirements as previously discussed, the Dodd-Frank Act also increases the regulation of derivatives and hedging transactions. This is expected to impact our capital markets group which offers an extensive range of over-the-counter interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives products to our clients. The regulations are expected to impose additional reporting and monitoring requirements, require higher capital and margin requirements and require that certain trades be executed through clearinghouses, all of which would likely result in added costs of doing business. Depending on the outcome of regulatory implementation (including, but not limited to, the definition of swap dealers and related compliance rules), the prospects for our capital markets business, the demand for its products and the types of products it may cost-effectively offer may be diminished. The Dodd-Frank Act repealed the prohibition on banks’ payment of interest on demand deposit accounts of commercial clients beginning one year from the date of enactment, and the market impact of this change at this stage has not been meaningful. However, under different market and economic conditions, it may have an impact on the level and cost of liquidity. Another significant aspect of the Dodd-Frank Act that will affect us is the creation of a new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the “Bureau”) with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Bureau will have broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. Among other things, it is anticipated that the Bureau may consider significant reforms in the mortgage industry that could have an adverse affect on our mortgage business. No assurance can be given as to the ultimate effect that the Dodd-Frank Act or any of its provisions will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations, the financial services industry or the economy. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. We compete for loans, deposits, wealth management and other financial services in our geographic markets with other commercial banks, financial companies, thrifts, credit unions and brokerage firms operating in the markets we serve. Many of our competitors offer products and services that we do not or have greater resources and economies of scale to offer products and services that we offer more cost effectively. Certain of our competitors may have better name recognition and market presence that could benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do or offer more favorable terms. To be competitive, we will need to continue to invest in technology, infrastructure and human resources. This investment is directed at enhancing our risk management function and generating new products and services, and adapting existing products and services to the evolving standards and demands of our clients and regulators. Falling behind our competitors, who may have more extensive resources to invest, in any of these areas, could adversely affect our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 