ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. The risks discussed below are those that we believe are the most significant risks, although additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant may also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. In determining our most significant risks, we consider the probability of the event occurring that is the subject matter of the risk and the material effect that event, if it were to occur, would likely have on our business, financial condition and future prospects. We make this determination using our best judgment. Before making an investment decision to purchase, sell or hold our securities, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. See “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information” on page 20. We may not be able to implement aspects of our Strategic Growth Plan. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we announced the implementation of our new Strategic Growth Plan, which included the hiring of our new President and CEO, Larry D. Richman in November, as well as the 22 Table of Contents hiring of a significant number of senior commercial bankers and other employees, which significantly expanded the size and scope of the Company, particularly in our Chicago offices. Our growth strategy contemplates substantial organic growth, including the further expansion of our business and operations, the hiring of additional personnel, the addition of new and enhanced product lines and services, the establishment of additional banking offices, and the possible acquisition of other banks or banking offices in our existing or in new metropolitan markets in the United States. Implementing our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to successfully identify and capture new business, clients, market share and potential acquisition opportunities in both our existing and new markets. To successfully grow our business, we must also be able to correctly identify and capture profitable client relationships and generate enough additional revenue to offset the compensation and other operating costs associated with the expansion in the size and scope of the Company. Moreover, as we open new offices we must be able to attract the necessary relationships to make these new offices cost-effective. It is likely that the costs associated with future organic expansion or future acquisitions, including compensation-related expenses, will have an adverse effect on our earnings per share. To the extent we hire new banking officers, undertake de novo banking office or business development office formations, our level of reported net income, return on average equity and return on average assets will be affected by overhead expenses associated with such hiring and operation, or start-up costs, the profitability of which will also depend on the time lag of establishing new banking relationships, originating loans, and building core deposits as well as the increase in our allowance for loan losses that occurs as we grow our loan portfolio. We are likely to experience the effects of higher expenses relative to operating income from any new operation and the expansion of our employee base. These expenses may be higher than we expected, and it may take longer than expected for new hires and new offices to reach profitability. In addition, we cannot be sure that we will be able to identify suitable opportunities for further growth and expansion, or that if we do, that we will be able to successfully integrate these new operations into our business. If we are unable to effectively implement our growth strategies, our business may be adversely affected. Our growth and expansion may strain our ability to manage our operations and our financial resources. Our financial performance and profitability depend on our ability to execute our Strategic Growth Plan. This continued growth, however, may present operating and other challenges that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our growth will also place a strain on our infrastructure, including administrative, operation and financial resources and increased demands on our systems and controls. Accordingly, our growth will require continued enhancements to and expansion of our operating and financial systems and controls and may strain or significantly challenge them. The process of integrating our new personnel, as well as consolidating the businesses and implementing the strategic integration of any acquired or newly-established banking offices and businesses with our existing business, may take a significant amount of time. It may also place additional strain on our existing personnel and resources and require us to incur substantial expenses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage our organic growth or effectively integrate any businesses we acquire or establish successfully or in a timely manner, or that we will be able to effectively enhance our infrastructure in order to be able to support our continued growth. In order to continue to grow, we will also need to hire additional qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting, integrating and retaining such personnel. We may not be able to access sufficient and cost-effective sources of liquidity necessary to fund our continued and anticipated balance sheet growth. We depend on access to a variety of funding sources, including deposits, to provide sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our clients, including funding our loan growth. Currently, our 23 Table of Contents primary sources of liquidity are our clients’ deposits, as well as brokered deposits, federal funds borrowings, Federal Home Loan Bank advances, proceeds from the sale of investment securities, proceeds from the sale of additional equity or trust preferred securities and subordinated debt, and amounts available under our existing credit facility. Our Strategic Growth Plan anticipates continued robust loan growth, especially in commercial loans. To the extent our deposit growth is not commensurate with or lags significantly behind our loan growth, we may not be able to fund this growth, or may need to access alternative, more expensive funding sources, including increasing our reliance on brokered deposits. Alternatively, if additional cost-effective funding is not available on terms satisfactory to us or at all, we may need to curtail our loan growth, which could adversely affect our result of operations and earnings. We will need to raise additional capital in order to fund our growth and remain well-capitalized. Our ability to raise additional capital to support our growth and meet minimum regulatory capital requirements at the holding company and at each of our bank subsidiaries is dependent on us being able to efficiently and cost-effectively access the capital markets. Accordingly, we must be able to issue additional equity securities, trust preferred securities and/or debt when and in the amounts we deem necessary, and there must be ready purchasers of our securities willing to invest in the Company. Furthermore, events or circumstances in the capital markets generally that are beyond the Company’s control may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital at any given time. Our inability to raise additional capital on terms satisfactory to us or at all may affect our ability to grow the Company and would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. Every loan we make carries a certain risk of non-payment. This risk is affected by, among other things: • the credit risks posed by the particular borrower; • changes in economic and industry conditions; • the duration of the loan; and • in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral. We maintain an allowance for loan losses sufficient to absorb credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The allowance for loan losses represents our estimate of probable losses in the portfolio at each balance sheet date and is supported by all available and relevant information. The allowance contains provisions for probable losses that have been identified relating to specific borrowing relationships, as well as probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio and credit undertakings that are not specifically identified. Loan quality is continually monitored by management and reviewed by committees of the Boards of Directors of the Company and the banks on a quarterly basis. The amount of additions to the allowance for loan losses, which is charged to earnings through the provision for loan losses, is determined based on a variety of factors, including: • assessment of the credit risk of the portfolio, • evaluation of loans classified as special mention, sub-standard and doubtful, • delinquent loans, • evaluation of current economic conditions in the market area, • actual charge-offs during the year, • historical loss experience, and 24 Table of Contents • industry loss averages As a percentage of total loans, the allowance was 1.17% at December 31, 2007, compared to 1.09% at December 31, 2006. Over the past year, we increased our allowance as a percentage of total loans based on management’s analysis of our credit quality, including a significant increase in non-performing loans, and other factors. Our regulators review the adequacy of our allowance and, through the examination process, have authority to compel us to increase our allowance even if we believe it is adequate. We cannot predict whether our regulators would ever compel us to increase our allowance. Although we believe our loan loss allowance is adequate to absorb probable and reasonably estimable losses in our loan portfolio, the allowance may not be adequate. If our actual loan losses exceed the amount that is anticipated, our earnings could suffer. We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. Our operating results are largely dependent on our net interest income. Fluctuations in interest rates may significantly affect our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on earning assets, usually loans and investment securities, and the interest expense paid on deposits and borrowings. The interest rate environment over the last year has continued to compress our net interest margin. Over the long term, we expect our net interest margin to benefit during a rising rate environment and alternatively, if market rates decrease, we expect our net interest margin to continue to decrease. We are unable to predict fluctuations in interest rates, which are affected by factors including: monetary policy of the Federal Reserve Board, inflation or deflation; recession; unemployment rates; money supply; domestic and foreign events; and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. As a continuing part of our financial strategy, we attempt to manage the effect of fluctuations in market interest rates on our net interest income. This effort entails providing a reasonable balance between interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and maintenance of yield. Our asset/liability management policy is established by the investment committee of our Board of Directors and is monitored by management. Our asset/liability management policy sets standards within which we are expected to operate. These standards include guidelines for exposure to interest rate fluctuations, liquidity, loan limits as a percentage of funding sources, exposure to correspondent banks and brokers, and reliance on non-core deposits. Our asset/liability policy may not be able to prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our owner-occupied commercial real estate, construction, and commercial real estate loans generally involve higher principal amounts than our other loans, and repayment of these loans may be dependent on factors outside our control or the control of our borrowers. At December 31, 2007, our owner-occupied commercial real estate, construction and commercial real estate loans totaled $483.9 million, $613.5 million, and $1.6 billion, respectively, or 12%, 15% and 38%, respectively, of our total loan portfolio. The repayment of these loans generally is dependent, in large part, on the cost and time frame of constructing or improving a property, successful sale or leasing of the property, availability of permanent financing, or the successful operation of a business occupying the property. These loans may be more adversely affected by general conditions in the real estate markets or in the local economy where the borrower’s business is located. For example, if the cash flow from a borrower’s project is reduced due to leases not being obtained or renewed, that borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Many construction and commercial real estate loan principal payments are not fully amortized over the loan period, but have balloon payments due at maturity. A borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on its ability to either refinance the loan or complete a timely sale of the underlying property, which may be more difficult in an environment of declining property values and/or increasing interest rates. 25 Table of Contents We must be able to successfully integrate our new hires and maintain a cohesive culture in order for our management team to be effective. Since September 30, 2007, we have hired a substantial number of senior commercial banking officers and other professionals as we have implemented our Strategic Growth Plan. We must be able to integrate these new hires with our existing management and into The PrivateBank culture in order to successfully build a cohesive management team to fully realize the goals of our Strategic Growth Plan. The inability to manage the social and cultural issues involved in this integration could adversely affect our ability to successfully re-align and grow our business as anticipated, and could cause us to incur additional cost and expense as a result of management’s time and focus being diverted toward resolving any such issues. We rely on the services of third parties to provide services that are integral to our operations. We rely on third-party service providers to support our operations. In particular, in our wealth management business, we have not, in the past, provided investment management services directly through our own personnel. Rather, we have relied, and continue to rely, upon selected outside investment managers to provide investment advice and asset management services to our clients. We cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain these arrangements on favorable terms. Also, many of the investment managers with whom we work are affiliated with our competitors in the financial services field. We cannot be sure that our investment managers will continue to work with us in these arrangements or that our clients will continue to utilize the services of these investment managers through us, rather than directly from the investment management firms themselves. The loss of any of these outside investment managers may affect our ability to provide our clients with quality service or certain types of portfolio management without incurring the cost of replacing them. We also are dependent on third-party service providers for data processing and other information processing systems that support our day-to-day banking, investment, and trust activities and on third-party providers of products and services on a private label basis that are integral to our banking relationship with our clients. Any disruption in the services provided by these third parties could have an adverse effect on our operations and our ability to meet our clients’ needs. The loss of key managing directors may adversely affect our operations. We are a relationship-driven organization. Our growth and development to date have resulted in large part from the efforts of our managing directors who have primary contact with our clients and are extremely important in maintaining personalized relationships with our client base, which is a key aspect of our business strategy and in increasing our market presence. The loss of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect central to our operations if remaining managing directors are not successful in retaining client relationships of a departing managing director. We have entered into employment contracts with Ralph B. Mandell, our Chairman, Larry D. Richman, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and numerous other executive officers and managing directors. Despite these agreements, there can be no assurance that any of these individuals will decide to remain employed by us or that our business will be protected by various covenants not to compete or covenants not to solicit our clients that are contained in these agreements. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. To date, we have grown our business successfully by focusing on our target markets and clientele and emphasizing consistent delivery of the high level of service and responsiveness desired by our clients. We compete for loans, deposits, wealth management and other 26 Table of Contents financial services in our geographic markets with other commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions and brokerage firms operating in the markets we serve. Many of our competitors offer products and services which we do not, and many have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Also, technological advances and the continued growth of internet-based banking and financial services have made it possible for non-depositary institutions to offer a variety of products and services competitive with certain areas of our business. As we have grown, we have become increasingly dependent on outside funding sources, including brokered deposits, where we face nationwide competition. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies, federally insured, state-chartered banks, federal savings banks, and national banks. As a result, these nonbank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various products and services. Our success in this competitive environment requires consistent investment of capital and human resources. This investment is directed at generating new products and services, and adapting existing products and services to the evolving standards and demands of our clients. Among other things, this helps us maintain a mix of products and services that keeps pace with our competitors and achieves acceptable margins, an important strategic goal. This investment also focuses on enhancing the delivery of our products and services in order to compete successfully for new clients or additional business from existing clients, and includes investment in technology. Falling behind our competition in any of these areas could adversely affect our business opportunities and growth, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. PrivateBancorp relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its revenues. PrivateBancorp is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. It receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the Company’s common stock and interest and principal on its debt. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the banks and certain non-bank subsidiaries may pay to the holding company. In the event the banks are unable to pay dividends to PrivateBancorp, it may not be able to service its debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on the Company’s common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the banks could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Supervision and Regulation.” Our ability to maintain a competitive advantage as a premier middle-market commercial bank is highly dependent on our reputation. Our clients trust The PrivateBank to deliver superior, highly-personalized financial service with the highest standards of ethics, performance, professionalism and compliance. Damage to our reputation could undermine the confidence of our current and potential clients in our ability to service them, as well as the confidence of counterparties, business partners and our stockholders in the Company, and ultimately affect our ability to manage our balance sheet or effect transactions. The maintenance of our reputation depends not only on our success in controlling and mitigating the various risks described above, but also on our success in identifying and appropriately addressing issues that may arise in areas such as potential conflicts of interest, anti-money laundering, client personal information and privacy issues, record-keeping, regulatory investigations and any litigation that may arise from the failure or perceived failure of the Company to comply with legal and regulatory requirements. 27 Table of Contents Our accounting policies and methods are critical to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. They require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. Accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report the financial condition and results of operations. Management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles. Management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management’s judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments and contingencies. A variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, or reducing a liability. We have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. Because of the uncertainty surrounding our judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements. See the “Critical Accounting Policies” section in the MD&A and Note 1, “Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Principles,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report for more information. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 