Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this Report in evaluating our business and our prospects. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Report, including our financial statements and the related notes. Global Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. Since reaching a peak in June 2008, there has been a significant decline in oil and natural gas prices. Since that time there has also been a significant deterioration in the global economic environment. As part of this deterioration, there has been significant uncertainty in the capital markets and access to financing has been reduced. Due to these conditions, our customers reduced or curtailed their drilling programs, which resulted in a decrease in demand for our services. Furthermore, these factors have resulted in, and could continue to result in, certain of our customers experiencing an inability to pay suppliers, including us, if they are not able to access capital to fund their operations. Although the significant deterioration in the global economic environment appears to have recently stabilized to some degree, our customers may not substantially increase their drilling programs unless there is more certainty about global economic prospects. These conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents We are Dependent on the Oil and Natural Gas Industry and Market Prices for Oil and Natural Gas. Declines in Oil and Natural Gas Prices Have Adversely Affected Our Operating Results. Our revenue, profitability, financial condition and rate of growth are substantially dependent upon prevailing prices for natural gas and, to a lesser extent, oil. For many years, oil and natural gas prices and markets have been extremely volatile. Prices are affected by: • market supply and demand, • international military, political and economic conditions, and • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, commonly known as OPEC, to set and maintain production and price targets. All of these factors are beyond our control. During 2008, the monthly average market price of natural gas peaked in June at $13.06 per Mcf before rapidly declining to an average of $5.99 per Mcf in December 2008. In 2009, the monthly average market price of natural gas declined further to a low of $3.06 per Mcf in September. This decline in the market price of natural gas resulted in our customers significantly reducing their drilling activities beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, and drilling activities remained low throughout 2009. This reduction in demand combined with the reactivation and construction of new land drilling rigs in the United States during the last several years has resulted in excess capacity compared to demand. As a result of these factors, our average number of rigs operating has declined significantly. We expect oil and natural gas prices to continue to be volatile and to affect our financial condition, operations and ability to access sources of capital. Low market prices for natural gas would likely result in demand for our drilling rigs remaining low and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. A General Excess of Operable Land Drilling Rigs and Increasing Rig Specialization May Adversely Affect Our Utilization and Profit Margins. The North American land drilling industry has experienced periods of downturn in demand over the last decade. During these periods, there have been substantially more drilling rigs available than necessary to meet demand. As a result, drilling contractors have had difficulty sustaining profit margins and, at times, have sustained losses during the downturn periods. In addition, unconventional resource plays have substantially increased recently and some drilling rigs are not capable of drilling these wells efficiently. Accordingly, the utilization of some older technology drilling rigs may be hampered by their lack of capability to successfully compete for this work. Other ongoing factors which could continue to adversely affect utilization rates and pricing, even in an environment of high oil and natural gas prices and increased drilling activity, include: • movement of drilling rigs from region to region, • reactivation of land-based drilling rigs, or • construction of new drilling rigs. Construction of new drilling rigs increased significantly during the last five years. The addition of new drilling rigs to the market and the recent decrease in demand has resulted in excess capacity. We cannot predict either the future level of demand for our contract drilling services or future conditions in the oil and natural gas contract drilling business. Shortages of Drill Pipe, Replacement Parts and Other Related Rig Equipment Adversely Affects Our Operating Results. During periods of increased demand for drilling services, the industry has experienced shortages of drill pipe, replacement parts and other related rig equipment. These shortages can cause the price of these items to increase significantly and require that orders for the items be placed well in advance of expected use. In addition, any interruption in supply due to vendor or other issues could result in significant delays in delivery of equipment. These 10 Table of Contents price increases and delays in delivery may require us to increase capital and repair expenditures in our contract drilling segment. Severe shortages or delays in delivery could limit our ability to operate our drilling rigs. The Oil Service Business Segments in Which We Operate Are Highly Competitive with Excess Capacity, which Adversely Affects Our Operating Results. Our land drilling and pressure pumping businesses are highly competitive. At times, available land drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment exceed the demand for such equipment. This excess capacity has resulted in substantial competition for drilling and pressure pumping contracts. The fact that drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment are mobile and can be moved from one market to another in response to market conditions heightens the competition in the industry. We believe that price competition for drilling and pressure pumping contracts will continue due to the existence of available rigs and pressure pumping equipment. In recent years, many drilling and pressure pumping companies have consolidated or merged with other companies. Although this consolidation has decreased the total number of competitors, we believe the competition for drilling and pressure pumping services will continue to be intense. Labor Shortages and Rising Labor Costs Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. During periods of increasing demand for contract drilling and pressure pumping services, the industry experiences shortages of qualified personnel. During these periods, our ability to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel to market and operate our drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment is adversely affected, which negatively impacts both our operations and profitability. Operationally, it is more difficult to hire qualified personnel, which adversely affects our ability to mobilize inactive rigs and pressure pumping equipment in response to the increased demand for such services. Additionally, wage rates for drilling and pressure pumping personnel are likely to increase during periods of increasing demand, resulting in higher operating costs. Growth Through the Building of New Rigs and Rig Acquisitions are Not Assured. We have increased our drilling rig fleet in the past through mergers, acquisitions and rig construction. The land drilling industry has experienced significant consolidation, and there can be no assurance that acquisition opportunities will be available in the future. We are also likely to continue to face intense competition from other companies for available acquisition opportunities. In addition, because improved technology has enhanced the ability to recover oil and natural gas, contract drillers may continue to build new, high technology rigs. There can be no assurance that we will: • have sufficient capital resources to complete additional acquisitions or build new rigs, • successfully integrate additional drilling rigs or other assets, • effectively manage the growth and increased size of our organization and drilling fleet, • successfully deploy idle, stacked or additional rigs, • maintain the crews necessary to operate additional drilling rigs, or • successfully improve our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects as a result of any completed acquisition or the building of new drilling rigs. We may incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions or build new drilling rigs and also may issue equity, convertible or debt securities in connection with any such acquisitions or building program. Debt service requirements could represent a significant burden on our results of operations and financial condition, and the issuance of additional equity would be dilutive to existing stockholders. Also, continued growth could strain our management, operations, employees and other resources. 11 Table of Contents The Nature of our Business Operations Presents Inherent Risks of Loss that, if not Insured or Indemnified Against, Could Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the contract drilling and pressure pumping businesses, which in turn could cause personal injury or death, work stoppage, or serious damage to our equipment. Our operations could also cause environmental and reservoir damages. We maintain insurance coverage and have indemnification agreements with many of our customers. However, there is no assurance that such insurance or indemnification agreements would adequately protect us against liability or losses from all consequences of these hazards. Additionally, there can be no assurance that insurance would be available to cover any or all of these risks, or, even if available, that insurance premiums or other costs would not rise significantly in the future, so as to make the cost of such insurance prohibitive. Incurring a liability for which we are not fully insured or indemnified could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have also elected in some cases to accept a greater amount of risk through increased deductibles on certain insurance policies. For example, we maintain a $1.0 million per occurrence deductible on our workers’ compensation, general liability and equipment insurance coverages. Violations of Environmental Laws and Regulations Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. All of our operations and facilities are subject to numerous Federal, state, foreign and local environmental laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, laws concerning the containment and disposal of hazardous substances, oil field waste and other waste materials, the use of underground storage tanks, and the use of underground injection wells. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be substantial. A failure to comply with these requirements could expose us to substantial civil and criminal penalties. In addition, environmental laws and regulations in the United States and Canada impose a variety of requirements on “responsible parties” related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages from such spills. As an owner and operator of land-based drilling rigs, we may be deemed to be a responsible party under these laws and regulations. We are aware of the increasing focus of local, state, national and international regulatory bodies on GHG emissions and climate change issues. We are also aware of legislation proposed by United States lawmakers and the Canadian legislature to reduce GHG emissions, as well as GHG emissions regulations enacted by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the Canadian provinces of Alberta and British Columbia. We will continue to monitor and assess any new policies, legislation or regulations in the areas where we operate to determine the impact of GHG emissions and climate change on our operations and take appropriate actions, where necessary. Any direct and indirect costs of meeting these requirements may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Anti-takeover Measures in Our Charter Documents and Under State Law Could Discourage an Acquisition and Thereby Affect the Related Purchase Price. We are a Delaware corporation subject to the Delaware General Corporation Law, including Section 203, an anti-takeover law. We have also enacted certain anti-takeover measures, including a stockholders’ rights plan. In addition, our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to one million shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights (including voting rights), conversion ratios, preferences and privileges of that stock without further vote or action by the holders of the common stock. As a result of these measures and others, potential acquirers might find it more difficult or be discouraged from attempting to effect an acquisition transaction with us. This may deprive holders of our securities of certain opportunities to sell or otherwise dispose of the securities at above-market prices pursuant to any such transactions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 12 Table of Contents 