ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSOur business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. The risks discussed below are those that we believe are the most significant risks affecting us and our business, although additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant may also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. Before making a decision to invest in our securities, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this report.Risks related to our businessA significant portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of commercial and industrial loans, many of which include larger credit relationships. The repayment of commercial loans is largely dependent upon the financial success and viability of the borrower and the state of the economy.Our commercial and industrial loan portfolio, which includes owner-occupied commercial real estate, totaled $6.5 billion, or 64% of our total loan portfolio, at December 31, 2012, compared to $5.3 billion, or 59% of our total loan portfolio, at December 31, 2011. The repayment of the loans in our commercial and industrial portfolio is largely dependent upon the financial success and viability of the borrower. While there have been some improvements in the overall economy over the past year, certain indicators, such as the negative GDP rate in the fourth quarter 2012 and the persistently high unemployment rate, reveal ongoing uncertainty in the economic recovery. If the current economic conditions continue for a prolonged period or worsen, or if relevant markets or industries weaken considerably, our borrowers may experience depressed, or potentially dramatic or sudden, decreases in revenues that could hinder their ability to repay their loans. Many of our commercial and industrial loans are secured by different types of collateral related to the underlying business, such as accounts receivable, inventory and equipment, which fluctuate in value. If we foreclose on underlying collateral in the event of default of any such loan, we may not be able to recover the full principal amount of the loan as the unique nature of certain collateral may make it difficult and costly to liquidate.Many of our commercial and industrial loans involve larger relationships. At December 31, 2012, we had 97 unique obligors with credit commitments of $25 million or more totaling $3.1 billion. Of this total commitment at December 31, 2012, we had $1.7 billion in loans outstanding, or 17% of our loan portfolio, to 81 unique obligors in amounts in excess of $25 million. Some of these obligors may be related to other obligors as guarantors or share related ownership structures with other obligors. Approximately 80% of these large obligors are commercial and industrial businesses; the remaining exposure relates primarily to commercial real estate loans. Of our largest commitments, five unique obligors with commitments of $50 million or more represented $332.5 million in total commitments at December 31, 2012, compared to five unique obligors at December 31, 2011 totaling $302.5 million in total commitments. As of December 31, 2012, $50.5 million of these largest commitments was outstanding, compared to $15.0 million at December 31, 2011. These credits, as well as larger credit relationships, are subject to increased scrutiny in our credit approval process. Depending on collateral values, success of a workout strategy or the ability of a borrower to return to performing status, the unexpected occurrence of an event or development adversely impacting one or more of our large clients could materially affect our results of operation and financial condition.21Table of ContentsThe largest industry segment concentration within our commercial lending business is the healthcare industry. At December 31, 2012, 23% of the commercial loan portfolio, or $1.5 billion, was composed of loans within the healthcare industry, primarily loans in which the facilities securing the loans are dependent, in part, on the receipt of payments and reimbursements under government contracts for services provided. We have a specialized niche in the nursing and residential care segment of the healthcare industry. Our clients and their ability to service debt may be adversely impacted by the financial health of state or federal payors and the ability of governmental entities, many of which have experienced budgetary stress in the recent economic environment, to make payments for services previously provided. As of December 31, 2012, 56% of the healthcare portfolio was secured by facilities in five states, with Illinois representing the highest percentage of facilities at 19%.Our business has been, and may continue to be, affected by the recent stresses in the commercial real estate market and the related challenges in liquidating commercial properties we acquire through foreclosure. The commercial real estate market continues to experience a variety of difficulties and challenging economic conditions. Although the general economy has shown signs of improvement in recent quarters, improvements in the commercial real estate market have been limited, especially in the Chicago metropolitan area. Should the recovery stall or reverse in this market, we could suffer losses against commercial real estate loans in excess of what we have provided for in the allowance for loan losses. Since the beginning of 2009, when our commercial real estate loans totaled $2.8 billion, we have recorded approximately $305 million in charge-offs to that portion of the loan portfolio. At December 31, 2012, our commercial real estate loans totaled $2.7 billion and included $70.1 million in special mention and potential problem loans and $68.6 million in nonperforming loans. At December 31, 2012, we allocated $52.7 million in general reserves and $20.5 million in specific reserves to the commercial real estate loan portfolio. Our commercial real estate loan portfolio includes loans with large principal amounts and the repayment of these loans is generally dependent on the successful leasing or sale of the property, the successful operation of the business occupying the property, and the availability of permanent financing. The repayment of these loans is particularly influenced by general conditions in the real estate markets or in the local economy where the property is located. Many commercial real estate loans do not fully amortize the balance over the loan period, but have balloon payments due at maturity. The borrower's ability to make a balloon payment may depend on their ability to either refinance the loan or complete a timely sale of the underlying property. On a non-owner occupied commercial property, if the cash flow from a borrower's project is reduced due to leases not being obtained or renewed, that borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired.Our ability to sell commercial property that we acquire through foreclosure ("OREO") in a cost effective and timely manner is dependent on a number of factors including valuations, buyer interest and market liquidity. If the recovery in the commercial real estate market remains tepid or stalls or declines, we may continue to have difficulty selling foreclosed property at values we consider reasonable, particularly land, which may result in increased losses and carrying costs. During 2012, we adjusted downward the valuation of OREO by approximately $25 million (compared to approximately $15 million of such adjustments in 2011) of which 49% related to land. At December 31, 2012, OREO totaled $81.9 million compared to $125.7 million at December 31, 2011. The success of our business is dependent on ongoing access to sufficient and cost-effective sources of liquidity.We depend on access to a variety of funding sources to provide sufficient liquidity to grow our loan portfolio, meet our lending commitments and other business needs and accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our clients, including client draws on unused lines of credit. We had a total of $4.7 billion of unfunded commitments to extend credit, including obligations to issue letters of credit, as of December 31, 2012. It is difficult to predict when clients may draw on such commitments or the impact such draws may have on our liquidity needs.Our deposit base is relatively concentrated in large commercial client relationships. The loss of large client relationships could negatively impact our liquidity. At December 31, 2012, we had 18 client relationships with greater than $75 million in deposit balances and our ten largest depositor accounts totaled $2.4 billion, or 19% of total deposits. Currently, our primary sources of liquidity are client deposits, large institutional deposits, and wholesale market-based borrowings, including brokered deposits. In addition to on-balance sheet liquidity and funding, we maintain access to various external sources of funding. These external sources of funding include Federal Funds counterparty lines with unaffiliated banks, repurchase agreements, the discount window at the Federal Reserve Bank, Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) borrowings and the brokered deposit market. Our ability to access these external sources depends on availability in the market place and a number of factors such as counterparty relationship strength in the case of Federal Funds counterparty lines and repurchase agreements or the availability of loans eligible for pledging as collateral as required under the Federal Reserve's and the FHLB's lending arrangements 22Table of Contents(e.g., stipulations of documentation requirements, credit quality, payment status and other criteria). Since 2009, we have experienced a significant increase in client deposits. This has allowed us to reduce our reliance on wholesale funding sources. However, there can be no assurance that this level of client deposit growth will continue or remain at current levels or that we will be able to maintain lower reliance on brokered deposits. Some of our client deposits may move to other investment options (such as the fixed income or equity markets) or be reinvested in clients' businesses based on certain factors such as improvement in financial markets and general economic conditions or changes in interest rates. In addition, since late 2008 there was unlimited FDIC insurance on non-interest bearing deposit accounts. The expiration of this unlimited insurance at the end of 2012 may cause some clients to move into interest-bearing deposit accounts (which would increase our cost of funding) or to investments outside the Bank. Movements of deposit accounts outside the Bank could lead to increased reliance on wholesale or other funding sources.If our primary sources of liquidity are insufficient and we are unable to adequately access external sources, we may be required to increase our on-balance sheet liquidity and funding by accessing the capital markets, which may not be cost effective or may have a dilutive effect on our shareholders.We may be required to hold higher capital levels.Under applicable regulatory guidelines, we are subject to minimum capital requirements adopted and administered by the federal banking agencies. As discussed in "Business - Supervision and Regulation" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital," provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act require U.S. banking regulators to consider changes to strengthen minimum capital requirements for financial institutions as part of the overall financial reforms currently in process of being implemented. In June 2012, the Federal Reserve and other regulators released notices of proposed rulemaking that would revise and replace the agencies' current regulatory capital requirements and are intended to align U.S. capital requirements with Basel III international capital standards. Among the factors that would impact us over time under the proposal, our $244.8 million of trust preferred securities would be phased-out as a component of Tier 1 capital, and we estimate that, based on the current composition of our balance sheet and our unfunded commitments, our risk-weighted assets would be higher due to more conservative standards for risk-weighting assets in the proposal. The final rules may be different from the current proposals and the proposed time periods for phase-in of the new capital requirements and risk-weighted asset standards could remain uncertain. Until the proposals are finalized and the timing of implementation of the new rules is determined, some uncertainty will exist with respect to the ultimate impact of such rules on us and the banking industry generally.Depending on our growth and the risk profile and mix of the assets we generate over the phase-in period, we could be required to issue additional common or preferred stock to meet the new capital requirements. We may also seek to issue equity or debt securities to replace, redeem or repurchase our outstanding trust preferred securities in connection with our capital management plans. Under current federal regulation, redemptions of capital instruments are subject to regulatory approval. There can be no assurances that we will be able to raise capital, when and if required, on favorable terms, and depending on the amount, type and cost of such capital, certain financial measurements such as earnings per share, book value per share and return on average common equity could suffer.See "Business - Supervision and Regulation" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital" for additional information.Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio.Lending money is a substantial part of our business. Every loan we make carries a certain risk of non-payment. This risk is affected by, among other things:•the credit risks posed by the particular borrower and loan type;•changes in economic and industry conditions;•the duration of the loan;•in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral; and•the ability to identify potential repayment issues in loans at an early stage.We maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level management believes is sufficient to absorb credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The allowance for loan losses is assessed quarterly and represents an accounting estimate of probable losses in the portfolio at each balance sheet date based on a review of available and relevant information at that time. The allowance is not a prediction of our actual credit losses going forward. The allowance contains provisions for probable losses that have been identified relating to specific borrowing relationships that are considered to be impaired, as well as probable losses inherent in the loan 23Table of Contentsportfolio that are not specifically identified, which is determined using a methodology that is a function of quantitative and qualitative factors applied to segments of our loan portfolio and management's judgment. The calculation of the allowance involves a great deal of judgment and uncertainty particularly given the state of the overall economy, the continuing stress in the commercial real estate market, and negative events or circumstances that might impact an individual borrower. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will not incur losses on loans greater than what we have provided for in the allowance.The allowance for loan losses was $161.4 million at December 31, 2012, compared to $191.6 million at December 31, 2011. The allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 1.59% at December 31, 2012, compared to 2.13% at December 31, 2011. Our allowance as a percentage of total loans reflects a level based on management's analysis of the risk inherent in our loan portfolio. Although we believe our loan loss allowance is adequate to absorb probable and reasonably estimable losses in our loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date, the allowance may not be adequate especially if economic conditions worsen or the factors used to calculate the allowance change. Also, proposed changes in accounting principles related to the calculation/determination of the allowance could result in a required increase.In calculating the allowance, we use historical default and loss information. A considerable portion of our commercial portfolio consists of recent-vintage loans, as there is considerable turnover in this portfolio. Because defaults typically do not emerge during the early stages of the life of a loan, it is more difficult to estimate the probable losses inherent in a newer portfolio, compared with a more seasoned portfolio.In the event we are required to increase our allowance for loan losses, our credit losses exceed our allowance or we are required to take higher than anticipated charge-offs in future periods, our earnings and our capital will be adversely affected. We may experience variability in our quarterly loan loss provision expense and charge-offs if larger credits default, which may impact credit quality trends.Our business could be significantly impacted if we, or our third party service providers, suffer failure or disruptions of information systems or if our employees cause an operational infrastructure breakdown or failure.We rely heavily on communications, data processing and other information processing systems to conduct our business and support our day-to-day banking, investment, and trust activities, many of which are provided through third-parties. If our third party providers encounter difficulties or become the source of an attack on or breach of their operational systems, data or infrastructure, or if we have difficulty communicating with any such third party system, our business operations could suffer. Any failure or disruption to our systems, or those of a third party provider, could impede our transaction processing, service delivery, customer relationship management, data processing, financial reporting or risk management. Although we take ongoing protective monitoring, detection, and prevention measures and perform penetration testing and risk assessments at least annually, our computer systems, software and networks, and those of our third party providers, may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information), account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses, denial of service attacks, malicious social engineering or other malicious code, or cyber attacks beyond what we can reasonably anticipate and such events could result in material loss. Additionally, we could suffer disruptions to our systems or damage to our network infrastructure from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as electrical or telecommunications outages, natural disasters, widespread health emergencies or pandemics, or events arising from local or larger scale political events, including terrorist acts. There can be no assurance that our policies, procedures and protective measures designed to prevent or limit the effect of a failure, interruption or security breach, or the policies, procedures and protective measures of our third party providers, will be effective. If significant failure, interruption or security breaches do occur in our processing systems or those of our third party providers, we could suffer damage to our reputation, a loss of customer business, additional regulatory scrutiny, or exposure to civil litigation, additional costs and possible financial liability. In addition, our business is highly dependent on our ability to process, record and monitor, on a continuous basis, a large number of transactions. To do so, we are dependent on our employees and therefore, the potential for operational risk exposure exists throughout our organization, including losses resulting from human error. We could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our employees causes a significant operational breakdown or failure. If we fail to maintain adequate infrastructure, systems, controls and personnel relative to our size and products and services, our ability to effectively operate our business may be impaired and our business could be adversely affected.The loss of key managing directors may adversely affect our business.We are a relationship-driven organization. Our growth and development during the past five years can be attributed in large part to the efforts of our managing directors who have primary contact with our clients and have responsibility for maintaining personalized relationships with our client base. These personalized relationships are a key aspect of our business strategy. The loss of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business if we are unable to hire suitable replacements or we are unable to successfully retain the client relationships of a departing managing director.24Table of ContentsWe have counterparty risk; the creditworthiness of other financial institutions could expose us to losses on contracts we have with these institutions and could adversely affect our ability to provide services to our clients, specifically products and services relating to foreign exchange, derivatives and letters of credit.Our ability to provide certain products and service could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other banks. Banks are interrelated as a result of lending, clearing, correspondent, counterparty and other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more banks, or the banking industry generally, have in the past led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of the transactions engaged in by us in the ordinary course of business, particularly in our capital markets group, expose us to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or customer. In such instances, the collateral we hold may be insufficient to mitigate our losses, as we may be unable to realize or liquidate at prices sufficient to recover the full amount of our exposure. Such losses could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Our capital markets group offers a range of over-the-counter interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives products. Although we do not engage in any proprietary trading and we structure these client-generated trading activities to mitigate our exposure to market risk, we remain exposed to various risks, the most significant of which include credit risk of our counterparties, operational risk and settlement risk, which may be most significant in foreign exchange transactions where timing differences between settlement centers can result in us paying our client and/or counterparty before actually receiving the funds. The exposure of our counterparties requires active monitoring as well as liquidity management to ensure timely and cost efficient posting of collateral. Operational risk includes errors in execution of internal bank procedures and controls, which could expose us to financial and/or reputation loss. A lapse or breakdown of these procedures or controls could significantly increase our exposure to counterparty credit risk and operational risk, which could result in a material loss to us.Risks related to our operating environmentA prolonged continuation of economic uncertainty or worsening of current economic conditions, in the U.S. or globally, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.In recent years, the U.S. economy has been marked by sluggish labor market improvements, limited GDP growth, low inflation, and, only recently, upward movement in housing prices, as well as uncertainty related to U.S. and European fiscal issues, political climates and global economic conditions. Continued uncertainty, sustained high unemployment, volatility or disruptions of global financial markets, or prolonged deterioration in the global, national or local business or economic conditions could result in, among other things, a deterioration of credit quality, further impairment of real estate values or a reduced demand for credit or other products and services we offer to clients. In particular, the financial condition of the State of Illinois where we do the majority of our business (higher corporate tax rates, significant budget deficits and a deteriorating credit rating) may contribute to an adverse climate for doing business in the state which could negatively impact us to the extent it leads to declines in business activity in Illinois. Although we do not hold direct obligations of the State of Illinois, such conditions can also negatively affect the market value of those municipal bonds that are obligations of municipalities domiciled in Illinois.An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults in future periods by our borrowers due to any of the factors above, or otherwise, could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan and covered asset losses, and valuation adjustments on any loans held for sale, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes or an extended period of continued low interest rates.Our operating results are largely dependent on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on earning assets, usually loans and investment securities, and the interest expense paid on deposits and borrowings. The spread between the yield on our interest-earning assets and our overall cost of funds has been compressed in the recent low interest rate environment, and our net interest income may be adversely impacted by an extended period of continued low rates. Interest rates are affected by factors including: monetary policy of the FRB, actual inflation or deflation or expectations regarding the same, actual or forecasted economic growth or contractions, unemployment rates, domestic and foreign events, and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. The timing of any FRB action to curtail or eliminate various stimulus-related programs, as a result of inflation concerns or otherwise, could have an impact on interest rates in general and our net interest margin in particular. While the yield on our loan portfolio is primarily variable and based on short-term rates and would therefore adjust quickly to a rise in interest rates, the impact on our cost of funds from a rise in interest rates will depend on a number of factors, including but not limited to, the competitive environment in the banking sector for deposit pricing, opportunities for clients to invest in other markets such as fixed income and equity markets, and the propensity of customers to invest in their businesses. The effect on our net 25Table of Contentsinterest income from an increase in interest rates will ultimately depend on the extent to which the aggregate impact of loan re-pricings exceeds the impact of increases in our cost of funds.Our investment portfolio also contains interest rate sensitive instruments and the market value of these instruments may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates, domestic and international economic and political conditions, issuer or insurer credit deterioration and market factors. A rise in interest rates or spread widening would reduce the net unrealized gains that we had in our investment portfolio at the end of 2012.Risks related to the financial services industryWe are highly regulated and may be adversely affected by changes in banking laws, regulations, and regulatory practices.We are subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination. This regulatory structure gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies to address not only compliance with applicable laws and regulations (including laws and regulations governing consumer credit, and anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws), but also capital adequacy, asset quality, risk management, management ability and performance, earnings, liquidity, and various other factors. As part of this regulatory structure, we are subject to policies and other guidance developed by the regulatory agencies with respect to capital levels, the timing and amount of dividend payments, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. Under this structure the regulatory agencies have broad discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on our operations if they determine, among other things, that our operations are unsafe or unsound, fail to comply with applicable law or are otherwise inconsistent with laws and regulations or with the supervisory policies of these agencies. This supervisory framework could materially impact the conduct, growth and profitability of our operations. Any failure on our part to comply with current laws, regulations, other regulatory requirements or expectations or safe and sound banking practices or concerns about our financial condition, or any related regulatory sanctions or adverse actions against us, could increase our costs or restrict our ability to expand our business and result in damage to our reputation.Changes in laws, regulations and other regulatory requirements affecting the financial services industry, and the effects of such changes, are difficult to predict and may have unintended consequences. New regulations or changes in the regulatory environment could limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things.The impact of implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act is still uncertain, is expected to increase our regulatory compliance burden and costs of doing business, could negatively impact our capital markets and mortgage activities, and could require higher capital levels.The Dodd-Frank Act significantly changes the financial regulatory landscape and will affect the operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. Although the full impact that the Dodd-Frank Act reforms will have on our business and revenues remains uncertain at this point, the burden of compliance with the new law and its rules and regulations will increase operating costs and may negatively impact revenue.In addition to potential changes in capital requirements, the Dodd-Frank Act also increases the regulation of derivatives and hedging transactions. This is expected to impact our capital markets group which offers a range of over-the-counter interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives products to our clients. The regulations impose additional reporting requirements, require higher capital and margin requirements and require that certain trades, including interest rate swaps, be executed through clearinghouses. In addition, the regulations impact the form of collateral we must post in connection with certain swaps, which could increase the ultimate cost to us of such swaps. Each of these regulations will likely add to our costs of doing business and increase risks resulting from new vendor and counterparty relationships required for reporting as well as clearing of certain trades. Depending on the impact of these regulations, the prospects for our capital markets business and the demand for its products may be diminished.Further, the Dodd-Frank Act created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ("CFPB") which, among other things, regulates the residential mortgage market. Under standards recently adopted by the CFPB, a lender may originate mortgages only to those borrowers that the lender determines have the ability to repay. Under this requirement, defaulting borrowers will have the potential to recover their finance charges, fees, damages and attorney's fees if the lender fails to comply with this rule. This, certain regulations summarized above under "Supervision and Regulation - Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act," and other future regulations by the CFPB could impact the operations, demand for and profitability of our mortgage business. 26Table of ContentsThe Dodd-Frank Act repealed the prohibition on banks' payment of interest on demand deposit accounts of commercial clients beginning one year from the date of enactment, and the market impact of this change at this stage has not been meaningful. However, under different market and economic conditions, it may have an impact on the level and cost of liquidity.No assurance can be given as to the ultimate effect that the Dodd-Frank Act or any of its provisions will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations, the financial services industry or the economy. Although it is unclear the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act will affect the Company and its operations, we could incur substantial costs to change our processes, products and/or controls to comply with the regulations implemented under it. Regulatory uncertainty regarding consumer financial regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act and related rulemaking, examinations and potential for enforcement proceedings by the CFPB could increase our compliance burdens and costs of doing business. The CFPB has broad rule-making, supervision and enforcement authority relating to a wide range of consumer protection laws. The CFPB has imposed significant fines and penalties on certain organizations relating to "unfair, deceptive or abusive" acts and practices as well as alleged fair lending violations based on claims of disparate impact on minority groups. There is substantial uncertainty surrounding the CFPB's enforcement activities and the scope of its consumer protection agenda. A significant portion of the CFPB's focus relates to the residential mortgage market. Uncertainty exists regarding how potential CFPB regulations will impact that market, including whether it will affect the level of overall mortgage activity. There can be no assurances that the CFPB will not exercise its broad powers in a manner that will, either directly or indirectly, have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate certain portions of our business profitably or on terms substantially similar to those on which they currently operate.Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry.We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this environment. We compete for commercial business with many banks that are substantially larger than we are and, in some cases, we may have a competitive disadvantage due to their greater resources, broader product offerings and economies of scale. In the recent period of relatively low overall loan demand and persistently low interest rates, we have experienced significant competitive pricing pressure in certain of our loan segments. Because we generate earnings primarily from the difference between the interest earned on loans and the interest we pay to depositors, this pricing pressure has impacted our margins. Remaining competitive will require ongoing investments in technology and infrastructure to enhance service delivery, support new products and services and continue to grow our business in the current regulatory environment. These investments are directed at adapting existing products and services to evolving technology and the demands of our clients. Falling behind our competitors, who may have more extensive resources to invest, in any of these areas, could adversely affect our business.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.