ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. The risks discussed below are those that we believe are the most significant risks affecting us and our business, although additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant may also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. Before making a decision to invest in our securities, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this report. Risks related to our business We have significant credit risk related to our owner-occupied commercial real estate, construction, and other commercial real estate loans. At December 31, 2009, our owner-occupied commercial real estate, construction and other commercial real estate loans totaled $835.9 million, $719.2 million and $2.8 billion, respectively, or 9%, 8% and 31%, respectively, of our total loan portfolio. Commencing in the third quarter and continuing into the fourth quarter of 2009, we experienced significant deterioration in our commercial real estate portfolio that caused a significant increase in non-performing loans during this period. We had $436.9 million in total non-performing assets at December 31, 2009, compared to $155.7 million at December 31, 2008, largely due to the ongoing deterioration in our commercial real estate portfolio. Approximately 72% of non-accrual loans at December 31, 2009, were commercial real estate or construction loans. Non-performing assets to total assets were 3.62% at December 31, 2009, compared to 1.55% at December 31, 2008. Our owner-occupied commercial real estate, construction, and other commercial real estate loans often involve loans with large principal amounts and the repayment of these loans generally is dependent, in large part, on the successful operation of a business occupying the property, the cost and time frame of constructing or improving a property, the availability of permanent financing, or the successful sale or leasing of the property. These loans are often more adversely affected by general conditions in the real estate markets or in the local economy where the borrower’s business is located. The commercial real estate market continues to experience a variety of difficulties and challenging economic conditions. In particular, market conditions in the Chicago metropolitan area, in which we have a heavy concentration of loans, have declined during 2009. During the third and fourth quarters of 2009, deterioration of our commercial real estate portfolio followed trends in the sector, including elevated commercial vacancy rates, sponsor bankruptcies and downward pressure on real estate values. The weak state of the economy continues to put pressure on other business sectors represented in our portfolio, but not to the degree seen in commercial real estate. Many construction and commercial real estate loans do not fully amortize the balance over the loan period, but have balloon payments due at maturity. The borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment may depend on its ability to either refinance the loan or complete a timely sale of the underlying property, which will likely be more difficult in an environment of declining property values and/or increasing interest rates. The relatively long maturities of construction loans, the borrower’s inability to use funds generated by a project to service a loan until a project is completed, and the more pronounced risk to interest rate movements and the real estate market that these borrowers face while a project is being completed or seeking a buyer, further make construction loans more vulnerable to risk of repayment. On a non-owner occupied commercial property, if the cash flow from a borrower’s project is reduced due to leases not being obtained or renewed, that borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. As a result of the current difficult operating environment, some borrowers may withhold key information on the property or be unwilling to provide information in a timely manner. Financial information that we have concerning borrowers with long loan maturities may no longer be accurate, which may impair our ability to properly assess the quality of the property and the loan. Further, we may realize increased losses in connection with the disposition of non-performing assets. As such, if general economic conditions continue to negatively impact these businesses, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of commercial and industrial loans which were originated in the past few years and present additional credit risk. The repayment of our loans to businesses is dependent upon the financial success and viability of the borrower. If the economy continues to remain weak for the foreseeable future, our borrowers may experience depressed or dramatic and sudden decreases in revenues that hinder the ability of the borrower to repay its loan. Our commercial and industrial loan portfolio, including owner-occupied commercial real estate, totaled $4.7 billion at December 31, 2009, or 51% of our total loan portfolio. While we have not experienced significant credit losses in this portfolio since 2007, this portfolio is not as mature as certain as certain of our other portfolios and, as a result, may not yet shown signs of credit deterioration. Unlike commercial real estate loans, commercial and industrial loans are secured by different types of collateral related to the underlying business, such as accounts receivable, inventory 16 Table of Contents and equipment. Should a commercial and industrial loan require us to foreclose on the underlying collateral, the unique nature of the collateral may make it more difficult and costly to liquidate, thereby increasing the risk to us of not recovering the principal amount of the loan. Accordingly, our results of operation and financial condition may be adversely affected by defaults in this portfolio. Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. Every loan we make carries a certain risk of non-payment. This risk is affected by, among other things: • the credit risks posed by the particular borrower; • changes in economic and industry conditions; • the duration of the loan; • in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral; and • efforts to detect stress in loans at an early stage. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is sufficient to absorb credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The allowance for loan losses represents our estimate of probable losses in the portfolio at each balance sheet date. The allowance contains provisions for probable losses that have been identified relating to specific borrowing relationships, as well as probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio and credit undertakings that are not specifically identified. The specific reserves are based on our current estimates of the value of impaired loans based on future cash flows, collateral value or market value, as the case may be. Our valuations are based on the factors we deem relevant, including in the case of commercial real estate loans updated appraisals from independent third parties or market evaluations of real estate collateral. These judgments involve uncertainty, particularly given the current real estate environment where there is a lack of comparable real estate activity in the marketplace. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will not incur losses on these loans greater than what we have provided for in the allowance. The allowance for loan losses was $221.7 million at December 31, 2009, compared to $112.7 million at December 31, 2008. The allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans increased to 2.44% at December 31, 2009, compared to 1.40% at December 31, 2008. Charge-offs were $101.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, offset by recoveries of $11.4 million, compared to charge-offs of $126.7 million for the prior year period, offset by recoveries of $888,000. Over the past year, we increased our allowance as a percentage of total loans based on management’s analysis of our loan portfolio’s credit quality, including a significant increase in non-performing loans, and other factors. Our regulators review the adequacy of our allowance and, through the examination process, have authority to compel us to increase our allowance in the current period or prior or future periods. Although we believe our loan loss allowance is adequate to absorb probable and reasonably estimable losses in our loan portfolio, the allowance may not be adequate. An increase in the allowance for loan losses results in a decrease in net income, and possibly regulatory capital. If our actual loan losses exceed the amount that is anticipated, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. A large portion of the loans in our portfolio was originated since the adoption of our strategic growth plan in 2007. Although a high percentage of our recent credit quality deterioration relates to loans originated prior to the adoption of our strategic growth plan in 2007, a portfolio of more mature loans will usually behave more predictably than a newer portfolio, such as ours, because loans typically do not begin to show signs of credit deterioration or default until they have been outstanding for some period of time. As a result, the current level of delinquencies and defaults may not be representative of the level that will prevail when the portfolio becomes more seasoned, which may be higher than current levels. In addition, some of these new loans are large in size. Should any of these loans default, it could materially affect our credit quality and the need to establish higher levels of loan loss reserves. If charge-offs in future periods increase and/or we are required to increase our provision for loan and covered asset losses, our earnings and possibly our capital will also be adversely affected. Our recent growth and expansion may continue to strain our ability to manage our operations and stress our financial resources. We have rapidly grown in size and scope since the inception of our strategic growth plan in 2007. This rapid growth continues to place a strain on our infrastructure, including administrative, risk management, operational and other back office functions that are essential to supporting the effective management of our business, and increased demands on our systems, controls and personnel. This growth continues to require attention and enhancements to, and expansion of, our operating and financial systems and controls and may strain or significantly challenge them. We may not be able to access sufficient and cost-effective sources of liquidity. We depend on access to a variety of funding sources, including deposits, to provide sufficient liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our clients, including funding our loan growth. Currently, our primary sources of liquidity are our clients’ deposits, as well as brokered deposits, federal funds borrowings (which are discretionary, uncommitted lines of credit), the FRB discount window, proceeds from the sale of investment securities, proceeds from the sale of additional equity or trust preferred securities and subordinated debt. In the fourth quarter of 2008 and throughout 2009, we experienced a significant increase in client deposits (including deposits acquired through the Founders Bank transaction) that has allowed us to reduce our reliance on wholesale funding sources. However, 17 Table of Contents there can be no assurance that this level of client deposit growth will continue or that we will be able to maintain the lower reliance on wholesale deposits that we have recently experienced. There is also no way to determine with any degree of certainty the reasons for the significant growth in our client deposits (excluding the client deposits acquired in the Founders Bank transaction) and hence whether these deposits are, in whole or in part, permanent or transitory. With the expected expiration of TAGP on June 30, 2010, as returns in the equity markets improve, if the economy improves, interest rates rise or as FDIC insurance coverage is reduced, we expect some of our client deposits to move to other investment options, thus causing a reduction in our client deposits and increased reliance on wholesale funding sources. Our holding company’s liquidity position is affected by the amount of cash and other liquid assets on hand, payment of interest and dividends on debt and equity securities currently outstanding, instruments issued by the holding company, capital we inject into our banks subsidiaries, redemption of debt, proceeds we raise through the issuance of debt and equity securities, and dividends received from our bank subsidiaries. Our future liquidity position may be adversely affected if in the future one or a combination of the following events occurs: our bank subsidiaries report net losses (as The PrivateBank—Chicago has in 2008 and 2009) or our bank subsidiaries’ earnings are weak relative to our holding company’s cashflow needs, we deem it advisable or are required by the FRB to use cash at the holding company to support our bank subsidiaries through capital injections, or we have difficulty raising cash through the issuance of debt or equity securities or accessing additional sources of credit. Given the losses we recorded in 2009, and, thus, the limitations on the ability of our bank subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding company, we are highly dependent upon the current cash position of the holding company and cash proceeds generated by capital raises to meet our liquidity needs and to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock for the foreseeable future. We may manage our liquidity position by reducing the amount of capital we inject into our bank subsidiaries, thus causing our loan growth to slow. This could adversely affect our results of operations and earnings if growth at our banks becomes capital constrained. The loss of key managing directors may adversely affect our operations. We are a relationship-driven organization. Our growth and development to date have resulted in large part from the efforts of our managing directors who have primary contact with our clients and are extremely important in maintaining personalized relationships with our client base, which is a key aspect of our business strategy. The loss of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations if remaining managing directors are not successful in retaining client relationships of a departing managing director. Weak financial performance, restrictions on compensation due to our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”), limitations on currently available equity awards, and regulatory guidance may restrict our ability to design programs that are effective in motivating and retaining our key employees. We may not be able to raise additional capital necessary to remain well-capitalized. If our loan portfolio continues to experience significant deterioration, our ability to continue to meet minimum regulatory capital requirements will be largely dependent upon our ability to access the capital markets. Events or circumstances in the capital markets generally or systemic risk in the banking industry specifically that are beyond our control may adversely affect our capital costs, our ability to raise capital at any given time and the dilution consequences to our stockholders of any capital raise we may undertake. In addition, as a result of the recent underwritten public offering of our common stock and the sale of our non-voting common stock to GTCR Golder Rauner, L.L.C. (“GTCR”), in November 2009, the number of shares of common stock available for issuance under our certificate of incorporation has been significantly reduced and any amendment to our certificate of incorporation to increase the available number of shares will require the approval of our stockholders. This could have an adverse impact on our ability to raise additional capital that would qualify as tangible common equity or Tier 1 capital. Our information processing systems are integral to our operations. We rely heavily on communications, data processing and other information processing systems to conduct our business and support our day-to-day banking, investment, and trust activities, many of which are provided through third-parties. Any failure or disruption in these products or services, including any failure or interruption resulting from a breach in security, could result in disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, risk management, or other systems. We have policies and procedures expressly designed to prevent or limit the effect of a failure, interruption, or security breach of our systems. However, there can be no assurance that our policies, procedures and security efforts will be effective, or that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that the impact will not be substantial, including damage to our reputation, a loss of customer business, additional regulatory scrutiny, or exposure to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents If we are required to take any charges related to asset impairments, including deferred tax valuation allowances and goodwill impairments, our results of operations and capital position may be adversely affected. At December 31, 2009, we had $177.3 million of gross deferred tax assets and $108.8 million of net deferred tax assets that arise because of differences in accounting treatment for financial and tax reporting purposes. In assessing whether a deferred tax asset valuation allowance was needed, we considered a number of factors relevant to our judgment. The evidence associated with the continuing difficult and challenging economic environment in which we are operating and our cumulative pre-tax loss for financial statement purposes, measured on a trailing three-year period were negative factors in our analysis. Included among the positive factors was our taxable income position for 2009, the expectation of reversing taxable temporary differences in future periods, and our expectations for generating taxable income, exclusive of reversing temporary differences, over a relatively short time period. These expectations for future taxable income were based in large part on the prospects for generating pre-tax book income. We relied on several factors in our judgment as to the quality and reliability of future pre-tax book income. These included the growth trends in pre-tax, pre-provision earnings during 2009 and the concentration of credit losses in certain segments and vintages of our loan portfolio. We also believe our strong tangible capital position provides a level of confidence regarding our ability to absorb future credit losses without impairing longer term prospects for generating future pre-tax book income and taxable income in amounts that more likely than not would be sufficient to support the realization of deferred tax assets. Based on our analysis of all the factors considered, we reached the conclusion that it is more likely than not that our deferred tax asset will be realized in future tax periods. As described above, our conclusion is dependent on a number of factors. To the extent these or certain other assumptions change materially, we may need to establish a valuation allowance against all or part of the net deferred tax asset, which would adversely affect our results of operations and capital levels and ratios. In addition, even if we continue to conclude that a valuation allowance is not needed for U.S. GAAP, we could be required to disallow all or a portion of the net deferred tax asset for bank regulatory purposes. At December 31, 2009, we had a disallowed deferred tax asset for regulatory purposes of $7.6 million. The assessment of whether the net deferred tax asset is disallowed, in whole or in part, for regulatory purposes is based on regulatory guidelines, which in some cases, are more restrictive than those of U.S. GAAP. Although a disallowed deferred tax asset for regulatory purposes does not impact our results of operations, it does reduce our regulatory capital ratios. Goodwill is an intangible asset and is subject to periodic impairment analysis. Certain facts or circumstances may indicate impairment that may lead us to recording an expense to write down this asset. We had $94.7 million in goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2009. Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired using the purchase method of accounting. Our goodwill was created as a result of several acquisitions we completed in prior years. Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment or more often if an event occurs or circumstances change that could reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Our impairment determination would rely on assumptions critical to the process including discount rates, asset and liability growth rates, and other income and expense estimates. If the impairment analysis of a reporting unit leads us to a conclusion that the book value exceeds its fair value, we would incur an impairment charge for some or all of our goodwill. For additional discussion of deferred taxes, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Notes 1 and 15 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. For additional discussion of goodwill, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Critical Accounting Policies” and Notes 1 and 8 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Risks related to our operating environment Continued tightening of the credit markets and instability in the financial markets could adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide, funding to borrowers including other financial institutions. This has resulted in less available credit, a lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity. A sustained period of instability in the financial markets, tight credit markets and a continued or upward trend in bank failures would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the risks we face. In this respect, and although the U.S. Treasury and the FDIC, among other agencies, have implemented programs to stabilize the U.S. economy, the long-term effectiveness of these measures remains uncertain. Weak economic conditions could continue to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Various segments of the U.S. economy have been in a prolonged and deep slowdown recently, and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in each of our markets has declined and remains stressed and volatile. A sustained period of high unemployment or further deterioration in the national or local business or economic conditions could result in, among other things, a further deterioration of credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant effect on our loan portfolio and allowance for loan losses. These factors could result in higher delinquencies and additional charge-offs in future periods, especially given our exposure to commercial real estate lending, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Continued, sustained weakness in business and economic conditions generally, or in our markets specifically, could have, and in some cases have had, one or more of the following adverse impacts on our business: • a decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; • a decrease in the value of the collateral underlying loans, requiring paydowns by our borrowers to remain in loan-to-value compliance or, alternatively, resulting in a default; • a decrease in the value of any loans that we may hold for sale; • longer holding periods required to liquidate property acquired upon default or loans held for sale, thereby increasing carrying costs and potentially impacting market values; and • an increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults in future periods could result in a higher level of non-performing assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan and covered asset losses, and valuation adjustments on any loans held for sale, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. Our operating results are largely dependent on our net interest income. Fluctuations in interest rates may significantly affect our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on earning assets, usually loans and investment securities, and the interest expense paid on deposits and borrowings. Over the long term, we expect our net interest margin to benefit during a rising rate environment. Changes in the slope of the treasury yield curve could also impact our net interest margin. We are unable to predict fluctuations in interest rates, which are affected by factors including: monetary policy of the FRB, inflation or deflation, recession, unemployment rates, money supply, domestic and foreign events, and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. The timing of any FRB action to curtail or eliminate various stimulus-related programs, as a result of inflation concerns or otherwise, could have an impact on interest rates in general and our net interest margin in particular. Our investment portfolio also contains interest rate sensitive instruments that may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates or spreads caused by governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, issuer or insurer credit deterioration and other factors beyond our control. A rise in interest rates or spread widening would reduce the net unrealized gains currently reflected in our investment portfolio, offset by our ability to earn higher rates of return on funds reinvested. Risks related to the financial services industry We are highly regulated and may be adversely affected by changes in banking laws, regulations, and regulatory practices, including the actions being taken by the U.S. government in response to the recent financial crises. We are subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination. This regulatory structure gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies to address not only compliance with applicable laws and regulations (including laws and regulations governing consumer credit, and anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws), but also capital adequacy, asset quality and risk, management ability and performance, earnings, liquidity, and various other factors. As part of this regulatory structure, we are subject to policies and other guidance developed by the regulatory agencies with respect to capital levels, the timing and amount of dividend payments, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. Under this structure the regulatory agencies have broad discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on our operations if they determine, among other things, that our operations are unsafe or unsound, fail to comply with applicable law or are otherwise inconsistent with laws and regulations or with the supervisory policies of these agencies. This supervisory framework could materially impact the conduct, growth and profitability of our operations. Any failure on our part to comply with current laws, regulations, other regulatory requirements or safe and sound banking practices or concerns about our financial condition, or any related regulatory sanctions or adverse actions against us, could increase our costs or restrict our ability to expand our business and result in damage to our reputation. 20 Table of Contents Changes in laws, regulations and other regulatory requirements affecting the financial services industry, and the effects of such changes, are difficult to predict and may have unintended consequences. New regulations or changes in the regulatory environment could limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. These changes also can adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Our participation in the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program subjects us to certain restrictions. On January 30, 2009, we issued approximately $243.8 million of our senior preferred stock and warrants to purchase shares of common stock at an exercise price of $28.35 per share to the U.S. Treasury under the CPP. Based on our participation in the CPP, we agreed to comply with its terms and conditions, which subjects us to certain restrictions, oversight, costs and compliance and reputational risks. For example, we may not, without the consent of the U.S. Treasury, increase our dividend, currently $0.01 per share per quarter, above a rate of $0.075 per quarter or, subject to certain exceptions, engage in repurchases of our common stock or trust preferred securities until January 30, 2012 or, if earlier, the date on which all preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury has been redeemed or transferred by the U.S. Treasury. Our participation in the CPP also subjects us to additional executive compensation and other restrictions, which may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain highly-qualified senior executive officers, particularly in light of the fact that some of the financial institutions with which we compete are not subject to the restrictions imposed by the CPP. Furthermore, under the terms of the securities purchase agreement we entered into with the U.S. Treasury, the U.S. Treasury will be able to unilaterally amend the agreement to make it consistent with any subsequent statutory provisions implemented by Congress. If we fail to comply with the terms and conditions of the program or the securities purchase agreement, including any restrictions upon our use of the CPP proceeds, we could become subject to a regulatory enforcement action or legal proceedings brought by the U.S. government, which, in turn, would present significant reputational risks for us that could affect our ability to retain or attract new clients or investors (if and when we determine to raise additional capital) or both. The creditworthiness of us and other financial institutions could adversely affect our ability to provide services to our clients, specifically products and services relating to foreign exchange, derivatives and letters of credit. Our ability to provide certain products and service could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other banks. Banks are interrelated as a result of lending, clearing, correspondent, counterparty and other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more banks, or the banking industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of the transactions engaged in by us in the ordinary course of business, particularly in our capital markets group, expose us to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or customer. In such instances, the collateral we hold may be insufficient to mitigate our losses, as we may be unable to realize or liquidate at prices sufficient to recover the full amount of our exposure. Such losses could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our capital markets group offers an extensive range of over-the-counter interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives products, including but not limited to interest rate swaps, options on interest rate swaps, interest rate options (which include caps, floors and collars), foreign exchange forwards and options, as well as cash products such as foreign exchange spot transactions. Although we do not engage in any proprietary trading and we structure these client-generated trading activities to mitigate our exposure to market risk, we remain exposed to various risks, the most significant of which include credit risk of our counterparties, operational risk and settlement risk, which may be most significant in foreign exchange transactions where timing differences between settlement centers can result in us paying our client and/or counterparty before actually receiving the funds. The exposure of our counterparties requires active monitoring of potential calls as well as liquidity management to ensure timely and cost efficient posting of collateral. Operational risk includes errors in execution of internal bank procedures and controls, which could expose us to financial and/or reputation loss. A lapse or breakdown of these procedures or controls could significantly increase our exposure to counterparty credit risk and operational risk, which could result in a material loss to us. Demand for the products or services of our capital markets group could be negatively impacted by interest rate changes or other factors and a decrease in sales volumes from this group could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. We compete for loans, deposits, wealth management and other financial services in our geographic markets with other commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions and brokerage firms operating in the markets we serve. Many of our competitors offer products and services which we do not, and many have substantially greater resources and economies of scale, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. 21 Table of Contents To be competitive, we will need to continue to invest in technology, infrastructure and human resources. This investment is directed at enhancing our risk management function and generating new products and services, and adapting existing products and services to the evolving standards and demands of our clients. Falling behind our competition in any of these areas, could adversely affect our business. We are being required to pay and may be required to pay in the future significantly higher FDIC premiums or special assessments that could adversely affect our earnings. Recent bank failures and market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. As a result, we are being required to pay significantly higher premiums or additional special assessments that could adversely affect our earnings. It is possible that the FDIC may require higher premiums and impose additional special assessments in the future on the industry and the banks generally or as a result of regulatory examination findings or conclusions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 