Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this Report in evaluating our business and our prospects. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Report, including our financial statements and the related notes. Global Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. During recent months, there has been a significant decline in oil and natural gas prices. During this time there has also been a significant deterioration in the global economic environment. As part of this deterioration, there has been significant uncertainty in the capital markets and access to financing has been reduced. As a result of these conditions, customers have recently started reducing or curtailing their drilling programs, which is resulting in a significant decrease in demand for our services. Furthermore, these factors could result in certain of our customers experiencing an inability to pay suppliers, including us, if they are not able to access capital to fund their operations. These conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We are Dependent on the Oil and Natural Gas Industry and Market Prices for Oil and Natural Gas. Declines in Oil and Natural Gas Prices Have Adversely Affected Our Operating Results. Our revenue, profitability and rate of growth are substantially dependent upon prevailing prices for natural gas and, to a lesser extent, oil. For many years, oil and natural gas prices and markets have been extremely volatile. Prices are affected by: • market supply and demand, • international military, political and economic conditions, and • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, commonly known as OPEC, to set and maintain production and price targets. 9 Table of Contents All of these factors are beyond our control. During 2008, the monthly average market price of natural gas peaked in June at $13.06 per Mcf before rapidly declining to an average of $5.99 per Mcf in December. In January 2009, the average market price of natural gas declined further to $5.40 per Mcf. This decline in the market price of natural gas has resulted in our customers significantly reducing their drilling activities beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 and continuing into 2009. This reduction in demand combined with the reactivation and construction of new land drilling rigs in the United States during the last several years has resulted in excess capacity compared to demand. As a result of these factors, our average number of rigs operating has recently declined significantly. We expect oil and natural gas prices to continue to be volatile and to affect our financial condition, operations and ability to access sources of capital. Continued low market prices for natural gas will likely result in further decreases in demand for our drilling rigs and adversely affect our operating results. A General Excess of Operable Land Drilling Rigs Adversely Affects Our Profit Margins Particularly in Times of Weaker Demand. The North American land drilling industry has experienced periods of downturn in demand over the last decade. During these periods, there have been substantially more drilling rigs available than necessary to meet demand. As a result, drilling contractors have had difficulty sustaining profit margins during the downturn periods. In addition to adverse effects that declines in demand could have on us, ongoing factors which could continue to adversely affect utilization rates and pricing, even in an environment of high oil and natural gas prices and increased drilling activity, include: • movement of drilling rigs from region to region, • reactivation of land-based drilling rigs, or • construction of new drilling rigs. As a result of an increase in drilling activity and increased prices for drilling services in recent years, construction of new drilling rigs increased significantly. The addition of new drilling rigs to the market and the recent decrease in demand has resulted in excess capacity. We cannot predict either the future level of demand for our contract drilling services or future conditions in the oil and natural gas contract drilling business. Shortages of Drill Pipe, Replacement Parts and Other Related Rig Equipment Adversely Affects Our Operating Results. During periods of increased demand for drilling services, the industry has experienced shortages of drill pipe, replacement parts and other related rig equipment. These shortages can cause the price of these items to increase significantly and require that orders for the items be placed well in advance of expected use. These price increases and delays in delivery may require us to increase capital and repair expenditures in our contract drilling segment. Severe shortages could impair our ability to operate our drilling rigs. The Oil Service Business Segments in Which We Operate Are Highly Competitive with Excess Capacity, which Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. Our land drilling and pressure pumping businesses are highly competitive. At times, available land drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment exceed the demand for such equipment. This excess capacity has resulted in substantial competition for drilling and pressure pumping contracts. The fact that drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment are mobile and can be moved from one market to another in response to market conditions heightens the competition in the industry. We believe that price competition for drilling and pressure pumping contracts will continue for the foreseeable future due to the existence of available rigs and pressure pumping equipment. In recent years, many drilling and pressure pumping companies have consolidated or merged with other companies. Although this consolidation has decreased the total number of competitors, we believe the competition for drilling and pressure pumping services will continue to be intense. The drilling and completion fluids services industry is highly competitive. Price is generally the most important factor. Other competitive factors include the availability of chemicals and experienced personnel, the 10 Table of Contents reputation of the fluids services provider in the drilling industry and relationships with customers. Some of our competitors have substantially more resources and longer operating histories than we have. Labor Shortages Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. During periods of increasing demand for contract drilling and pressure pumping services, the industry experiences shortages of qualified personnel. During these periods, our ability to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel to market and operate our drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment is adversely affected, which negatively impacts both our operations and profitability. Operationally, it is more difficult to hire qualified personnel, which adversely affects our ability to mobilize inactive rigs and pressure pumping equipment in response to the increased demand for such services. Additionally, wage rates for drilling and pressure pumping personnel are likely to increase during periods of increasing demand, resulting in higher operating costs. Continued Growth Through Rig Acquisition is Not Assured. We have increased our drilling rig fleet in the past through mergers, acquisitions and rig construction. The land drilling industry has experienced significant consolidation, and there can be no assurance that acquisition opportunities will be available in the future. Additionally, we are likely to continue to face intense competition from other companies for available acquisition opportunities. There can be no assurance that we will: • have sufficient capital resources to complete additional acquisitions, • successfully integrate acquired operations and assets, • effectively manage the growth and increased size, • successfully deploy idle or stacked rigs, • maintain the crews and market share to operate drilling rigs acquired, or • successfully improve our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects as a result of any completed acquisition. We may incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions and also may issue equity securities or convertible securities in connection with any such acquisitions. Debt service requirements could represent a significant burden on our results of operations and financial condition and the issuance of additional equity would be dilutive to existing stockholders. Also, continued growth could strain our management, operations, employees and other resources. The Nature of our Business Operations Presents Inherent Risks of Loss that, if not Insured or Indemnified Against, Could Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the contract drilling, pressure pumping, and drilling and completion fluids businesses, which in turn could cause personal injury or death, work stoppage, or serious damage to our equipment. Our operations could also cause environmental and reservoir damages. We maintain insurance coverage and have indemnification agreements with many of our customers. However, there is no assurance that such insurance or indemnification agreements would adequately protect us against liability or losses from all consequences of these hazards. Additionally, there can be no assurance that insurance would be available to cover any or all of these risks, or, even if available, that insurance premiums or other costs would not rise significantly in the future, so as to make the cost of such insurance prohibitive. We have elected in some cases to accept a greater amount of risk through increased deductibles on certain insurance policies. For example, we maintain a $1.0 million per occurrence deductible on our workers’ compensation, general liability and equipment insurance coverages. Violations of Environmental Laws and Regulations Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. The drilling of oil and natural gas wells is subject to various Federal, state, foreign, and local laws, rules and regulations. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be substantial. A failure to comply with these requirements could expose us to substantial civil and criminal penalties. In addition, Federal law imposes a 11 Table of Contents variety of regulations on “responsible parties” related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages from such spills. As an owner and operator of land-based drilling rigs, we may be deemed to be a responsible party under Federal law. Our operations and facilities are subject to numerous state and Federal environmental laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, laws concerning the containment and disposal of hazardous substances, oil field waste and other waste materials, the use of underground storage tanks and the use of underground injection wells. Anti-takeover Measures in Our Charter Documents and Under State Law Could Discourage an Acquisition and Thereby Affect the Related Purchase Price. We are a Delaware corporation subject to the Delaware General Corporation Law, including Section 203, an anti-takeover law enacted in 1988. We have also enacted certain anti-takeover measures, including a stockholders’ rights plan. In addition, our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to one million shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights (including voting rights), conversion ratios, preferences and privileges of that stock without further vote or action by the holders of the common stock. As a result of these measures and others, potential acquirers might find it more difficult or be discouraged from attempting to effect an acquisition transaction with us. This may deprive holders of our securities of certain opportunities to sell or otherwise dispose of the securities at above-market prices pursuant to any such transactions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 