ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. The risks discussed below are those that we believe are the most significant risks affecting us and our business, although additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant may also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. Before making a decision to invest in our securities, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this report. Risks related to our business We have significant credit risk related to our commercial real estate and construction loans. At December 31, 2010, our commercial real estate and construction loans totaled $2.9 billion and $530.7 million, respectively, or 31% and 6%, respectively, of our total loan portfolio. We had $365.9 million in total nonperforming loans at December 31, 2010, compared to $395.4 million at December 31, 2009, largely due to deterioration in our commercial real estate portfolio. Approximately 65% and 72% of nonperforming loans at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively, were commercial real estate or construction loans. The real estate market continues to experience a variety of difficulties and challenging economic conditions. In particular, market conditions in the Chicago metropolitan area, in which we have a significant concentration of real estate collateral, showed minimal improvement during 2010 and remains stressed. Although certain commercial real estate assets such as multi-family, office and retail have shown some signs of stabilization, the overall commercial real estate market remains depressed. Our commercial real estate and construction portfolios followed trends in the sector which included elevated commercial vacancy rates, sponsor bankruptcies, illiquid markets for real estate and downward pressure on real estate values and leasing rates. Our commercial real estate and construction loan portfolios include loans with large principal amounts and the repayment of these loans is generally dependent on the successful leasing or sale of the property, the successful operation of the business occupying the property, the cost and time frame of constructing or improving a property and the availability of permanent financing. The repayment of these loans is particularly influenced by general conditions in the real estate markets or in the local economy where the property is located. Many commercial real estate and construction loans do not fully amortize the balance over the loan period, but have balloon payments due at maturity. The borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment may depend on their ability to either refinance the loan or complete a timely sale of the underlying property. The borrower’s inability to use funds generated by a project to service a loan 18 Table of Contents until a project is completed, and the more pronounced risk to interest rate movements and the real estate market that these borrowers face while a project is being completed or seeking a buyer, can also make construction loans more vulnerable to risk of default. On a non-owner occupied commercial property, if the cash flow from a borrower’s project is reduced due to leases not being obtained or renewed, that borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. In the event of a default on a commercial real estate or construction loan, we may be required to foreclose on the real estate securing the loan. The foreclosure process can be time consuming and costly. Further, once we foreclose on the real estate, we may be unable to sell the property in a cost effective or timely manner which may result in increased losses and carrying costs. We had $88.7 million in other real estate owned (OREO) at December 31, 2010, compared to $41.5 million at December 31, 2009. If the economy generally, or the real estate market specifically, does not improve or experiences further deterioration, we may experience additional charge-offs and provisions for loan losses and/or increased OREO levels which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of commercial and industrial loans, the repayment of which is largely dependent upon the financial success and viability of the borrower and the state of the economy. The repayment of our commercial and industrial and owner-occupied commercial real estate loans is dependent upon the financial success and viability of the borrower. If the economy remains weak for a prolonged period or experiences further deterioration or if the industry or market in which the borrower operates weakens, our borrowers may experience depressed or dramatic and sudden decreases in revenues that could hinder their ability to repay their loans. Our commercial and industrial loan portfolio, which includes owner-occupied commercial real estate, totaled $4.9 billion, or 54% of our total loan portfolio, at December 31, 2010, compared to $4.3 billion, or 48% of our total loan portfolio, at December 31, 2009. Unlike commercial real estate loans, or our owner occupied commercial real estate loans, commercial and industrial loans are secured by different types of collateral related to the underlying business, such as accounts receivable, inventory and equipment. Should a commercial and industrial loan require us to foreclose on the underlying collateral, the unique nature of the collateral may make it more difficult and costly to liquidate, thereby increasing the risk to us of not recovering the principal amount of the loan. Accordingly, our results of operation and financial condition may be adversely affected by defaults in this portfolio. Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. Every loan we make carries a certain risk of non-payment. This risk is affected by, among other things: • the credit risks posed by the particular borrower and loan type; • changes in economic and industry conditions; • the duration of the loan; • in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral; and • the ability to identify potential repayment issues in loans at an early stage. We maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level management believes is sufficient to absorb credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The allowance for loan losses is assessed quarterly and represents an accounting estimate of probable losses in the portfolio at each balance sheet date based on a review of available and relevant information at that time. The allowance is not a prediction of our actual credit losses going forward. The allowance contains provisions for probable losses that have been identified relating to specific borrowing relationships that are considered to be impaired, as well as probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio that are not specifically identified, which is determined using a methodology that is a function of quantitative and qualitative factors applied to segments of our loan portfolio and management’s judgment. The calculation of the allowance involves a great deal of judgment and uncertainty particularly given the current state of the economy and the real estate environment. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will not incur losses on these loans greater than what we have provided for in the allowance. The allowance for loan losses was $222.8 million at December 31, 2010, compared to $221.7 million at December 31, 2009. The allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 2.44% at December 31, 2010, compared to 2.45% at December 31, 2009. Our allowance as a percentage of total loans reflects a level based on management’s analysis of the risk inherent in our loan portfolio. Although we believe our loan loss allowance is adequate to absorb probable and reasonably estimable losses in our loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date, the allowance may not be adequate especially if economic conditions worsen or the factors used to calculate the allowance change. Our regulators also review the adequacy of our allowance and have authority to compel us to increase our allowance in current or future periods. 19 Table of Contents A large portion of our loan portfolio was originated since 2007 when we initiated a strategic plan to transform the bank into a leading middle market commercial bank. The behavior of a portfolio of more mature loans may be more predictable based on past performance history than a newer portfolio, such as ours, because loans typically do not begin to show signs of credit deterioration or default until they have been outstanding for some period of time. As a result, the current level of delinquencies and defaults may not be representative of the level that will occur when the newer portion of the portfolio becomes more seasoned, which may be higher than current levels. In calculating the allowance, we use historical default and loss information. For those segments of our portfolio that are less seasoned, such as our commercial and industrial portfolio, the available historical default and loss data is more limited, making it more difficult to estimate the probable losses inherent in those portfolios. In the event we are required to increase our allowance for loan losses, our credit losses exceed our allowance or we are required to take higher than anticipated charge-offs in future periods, our earnings and our capital will also be adversely affected. In addition, because a significant portion of our loan portfolio consists of larger credit relationships consistent with our commercial middle market strategy, we may have clients that expose us to significant concentrations of credit risk in one borrower or related obligors. Based on information we use to evaluate aggregate credit exposures to related borrowers for internal risk management purposes, we estimate that currently about one third of our total credit commitments (including loans outstanding and unfunded commitments) involve client relationships that have aggregate credit exposures greater than $25 million. At December 31, 2010, we had 11 client relationships with aggregate credit exposures greater than $50 million. We may experience choppiness in our quarterly loan loss provision expense and charge-offs if larger credits default, which may result in uneven credit quality trends. Depending on collateral values, the unexpected occurrence of an event or development adversely impacting one or more of our large clients could materially affect our results of operation and financial condition. We may be unable to maintain capital at required or appropriate levels. Under applicable regulatory guidelines, we are subject to minimum capital requirements adopted and administered by the federal banking agencies. The current economic environment and the challenges facing many financial institutions, however, have resulted in heightened capital expectations from the federal banking agencies and the market particularly with respect to financial institutions experiencing credit challenges in their loan portfolios. Furthermore, recent legislative action such as the Dodd-Frank Act and the Basel III proposals could ultimately result in capital requirements that are more stringent than current requirements and expectations, although the ultimate outcome of these actions are currently unknown. We currently manage our balance sheet to maintain capital ratios at levels above the minimum regulatory guidelines that we deem adequate for our risk profile and expect to manage growth within our existing capital base. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to maintain capital at these levels or at levels required or expected by our regulators or future legislation. Our capital position may be affected by further credit losses and credit deterioration, potential asset impairment, significant draws on our unfunded commitments, or unexpected asset growth. See also “Risk Factors—If we are required to take charges related to asset impairments, including deferred tax valuation allowances and goodwill impairments, our results of operations and capital position may be adversely affected.” If we are unable to maintain capital at required or appropriate levels, we may be required to raise capital. Our ability to raise capital will be dependent upon our access to the capital markets and will be influenced by events, circumstances and risks that are specific to us and the banking industry, each of which may adversely affect our capital costs and the dilutive impact on our stockholders. We may not be able to access sufficient and cost-effective sources of liquidity. We depend on access to a variety of funding sources to provide sufficient liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our clients, including funding new loans and client draws on unused lines of credit. As of December 31, 2010, we had a total of $4.2 billion of unfunded commitments to extend credit. Currently, our primary sources of liquidity are client deposits, large institutional deposits, and wholesale market-based borrowings, including brokered deposits. In addition to on-balance sheet liquidity and funding, we maintain access to various external sources of funding. These external sources of funding include Federal Fund counterparty lines, repurchase agreements, the discount window at the Federal Reserve Bank and the brokered deposit market. Our ability to access these external sources depends on availability in the market place and a number of factors such as counterparty relationship strength in the case of Federal Fund counterparty lines and repurchase agreements or the availability of loans eligible under the Federal Reserve’s criteria (e.g., stipulations of documentation requirements, credit quality, payment status and other criteria) in the case of the discount window at the Federal Reserve Bank. If our primary sources of liquidity are insufficient and we are unable to adequately access external sources, we may be required to increase our on-balance sheet liquidity and funding by accessing the capital markets, which may not be cost effective or may have a dilutive effect on our shareholders. 20 Table of Contents Commencing in 2009 and continuing throughout 2010, we experienced a significant increase in client deposits. This has allowed us to reduce our reliance on wholesale funding sources. However, there can be no assurance that this level of client deposit growth will continue or remain at current levels or that we will be able to maintain the lower reliance on wholesale deposits. As returns in the equity markets improve, when the economy improves, interest rates rise or as the types of accounts eligible for FDIC insurance coverage are reduced, we expect some of our client deposits to move to other investment options, thus causing a reduction in our client deposits and increased reliance on wholesale or other funding sources. In addition, because our deposit base is relatively concentrated given our core commercial banking strategy, the loss of large client relationships could negatively impact our liquidity. At December 31, 2010, more than 20% of our total deposits related to client relationships with greater than $75 million in deposit balances. Our holding company’s liquidity position is affected by the amount of cash and other liquid assets on hand, payment of interest and dividends on debt and equity securities currently outstanding, debt service, capital we inject into our bank subsidiary and any redemption of debt. Our future liquidity position may be adversely affected if our bank experiences net losses, we deem it advisable or are required by our regulators to use cash at the holding company to support our bank subsidiary through additional capital contributions, we experience greater than anticipated outflows of client deposits, or we have difficulty raising cash through the issuance of debt or equity securities or accessing additional sources of funding. Given the losses we recorded in 2010 and 2009, we are highly dependent upon the current cash position of the holding company to meet our liquidity needs and to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock for the foreseeable future. If we need to limit future capital infusions to our banking subsidiary to manage holding company liquidity, we could become capital constrained at the Bank which may restrict our asset growth. This could adversely affect our results of operations. The loss of key managing directors may adversely affect our operations. We are a relationship-driven organization. Our growth and development during the past three years have resulted in large part from the efforts of our managing directors who have primary contact with our clients and are extremely important in maintaining personalized relationships with our client base, which is a key aspect of our business strategy. The loss of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations if we are unable to replace these employees or we are unable to successfully retain the client relationships of a departing managing director. To the extent weak financial performance, restrictions on compensation due to our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program, limitations on available equity awards, or regulatory guidance impact our ability to offer competitive pay programs, we may not be successful in motivating and retaining key employees. We are dependent upon our information processing systems to effectively conduct our business. We rely heavily on communications, data processing and other information processing systems to conduct our business and support our day-to-day banking, investment, and trust activities, many of which are provided through third-parties. Any failure or disruption in these products or services, including any failure or interruption resulting from a breach in security, could result in disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, risk management, or other systems. We have policies and procedures expressly designed to prevent or limit the effect of a failure, interruption, or security breach of our systems. However, there can be no assurance that our policies, procedures and security efforts will be effective, or that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that the impact will not be substantial, including damage to our reputation, a loss of customer business, additional regulatory scrutiny, or exposure to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we fail to maintain adequate infrastructure, systems, controls and personnel relative to our size and products and services, our ability to effectively operate our business may be impaired and our business could be adversely affected. If we are required to take any charges related to asset impairments, including deferred tax valuation allowances and goodwill impairments, our results of operations and capital position may be adversely affected. At December 31, 2010, we had $175.1 million of gross deferred tax assets and $126.3 million of net deferred tax assets that arise because of differences in accounting treatment for financial and tax reporting purposes. In assessing whether a deferred tax asset valuation allowance was needed, we considered a number of factors relevant to our judgment. The evidence associated with our cumulative pre-tax loss for financial statement purposes, measured on a trailing three-year period, and the continuing challenging conditions in the commercial real estate sector were among the negative factors in our analysis. Positive evidence included our taxable income position for 2009 and 2010, the expectation of reversing taxable temporary differences in future periods, and our other expectations. Our expectations for achieving future taxable income, exclusive of reversing temporary differences, in amounts sufficient to absorb the deferred tax assets are based in large part on the prospects for generating pre-tax book income. We relied on several factors in our judgment as to the quality and reliability of future pre-tax book income. These included our achievement of positive pre-tax income results in recent quarters, the growth trends in pre-tax, pre-loan loss provision earnings during 2009 and 2010, 21 Table of Contents the concentration of credit losses in certain segments and vintages of our loan portfolio along with the declining balances of such loan segments. We also considered the relative stability of credit trends in recent quarters. We believe our capital position provides a level of confidence regarding our ability to absorb future credit losses without impairing longer term prospects for generating future pre-tax book income and taxable income in amounts that more likely than not would be sufficient to support the realization of deferred tax assets. Based on our analysis of all the factors considered, we reached the conclusion that it is more likely than not that our deferred tax asset will be realized in future tax periods. Our conclusion is dependent on a number of factors, including those described above. To the extent these or certain other assumptions change materially, we may need to establish a valuation allowance against all or part of the net deferred tax asset, which would adversely affect our results of operations and capital levels and ratios. In addition, even if we continue to conclude that a valuation allowance is not needed for U.S. GAAP, we could be required to disallow all or a portion of the net deferred tax asset for bank regulatory purposes. At December 31, 2010, we had a disallowed deferred tax asset for holding company consolidated regulatory purposes of $5.4 million. The assessment of whether the net deferred tax asset is disallowed, in whole or in part, for regulatory purposes (whether on a holding company consolidated basis or a bank consolidated basis) is based on regulatory guidelines, which in some cases, are more restrictive than those of U.S. GAAP. Although a disallowed deferred tax asset for regulatory purposes does not impact our results of operations, it does reduce our regulatory capital ratios. Goodwill is an intangible asset and is subject to periodic impairment analysis. Certain facts or circumstances may indicate impairment that may lead us to recording an expense to write down this asset. We had $94.6 million in goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2010. Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired using the purchase method of accounting. Our goodwill was created as a result of several acquisitions we completed in prior years. Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment or more often if an event occurs or circumstances change that could reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Fair values of reporting units are determined using a combination of market-based valuation multiples for comparable businesses if available, and discounted cash flow analyses based on internal financial forecasts. Our impairment determination would rely on assumptions critical to the process including discount rates, asset and liability growth rates, and other income and expense estimates. If the impairment analysis of a reporting unit leads us to a conclusion that the book value exceeds its fair value and upon further analysis if the carrying fair value of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill, we would incur an impairment charge for some or all of our goodwill. For additional discussion of deferred taxes, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Notes 1 and 15 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. For additional discussion of goodwill, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations- Critical Accounting Policies” and Notes 1 and 8 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Risks related to our operating environment Weak economic conditions could continue to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Various segments of the U.S. economy have been in a prolonged and deep slowdown over the past three years, and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in each of our markets remains stressed and volatile. Continued and sustained periods of high unemployment or further deterioration in the national or local business or economic conditions could result in, among other things, a further deterioration of credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant effect on our loan portfolio and allowance for loan losses. These factors could result in higher delinquencies and additional charge-offs in future periods, especially given our exposure to commercial real estate and construction lending. Such circumstances would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Continued sustained weakness in business and economic conditions generally, or in our markets specifically, could adversely impact our business through: • more clients and counterparties becoming delinquent, filing for protection under bankruptcy laws or defaulting on their loans or other obligations to us; • a decrease in the value of the collateral underlying loans, requiring paydowns by our borrowers to remain in loan-to-value compliance or, alternatively, resulting in a default; • a decrease in the value of any loans that we may hold for sale or property acquired upon default; • lengthy holding periods required to liquidate property acquired upon default or loans held for sale, thereby increasing carrying costs and potentially impacting market values; and • sluggish demand for loans and other products and services offered by us. 22 Table of Contents An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults in future periods could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan and covered asset losses, and valuation adjustments on any loans held for sale, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. Our operating results are largely dependent on our net interest income. Fluctuations in interest rates may significantly affect our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on earning assets, usually loans and investment securities, and the interest expense paid on deposits and borrowings. We are unable to predict fluctuations in interest rates, which are affected by factors including: monetary policy of the FRB, actual inflation or deflation or expectations regarding the same, recession, unemployment rates, money supply, domestic and foreign events, and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. The timing of any FRB action to curtail or eliminate various stimulus-related programs, as a result of inflation concerns or otherwise, could have an impact on interest rates in general and our net interest margin in particular. Our investment portfolio also contains interest rate sensitive instruments that may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates or spreads caused by governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, issuer or insurer credit deterioration and other factors beyond our control. A rise in interest rates or spread widening would reduce the net unrealized gains currently reflected in our investment portfolio, offset by our ability to earn higher rates of return on funds reinvested. Demand for the products or services of our capital markets group could be negatively impacted by interest rate changes and a decrease in sales volumes from this group could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Risks related to the financial services industry We are highly regulated and may be adversely affected by changes in banking laws, regulations, and regulatory practices. We are subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination. This regulatory structure gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies to address not only compliance with applicable laws and regulations (including laws and regulations governing consumer credit, and anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws), but also capital adequacy, asset quality and risk, management ability and performance, earnings, liquidity, and various other factors. As part of this regulatory structure, we are subject to policies and other guidance developed by the regulatory agencies with respect to capital levels, the timing and amount of dividend payments, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. Under this structure the regulatory agencies have broad discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on our operations if they determine, among other things, that our operations are unsafe or unsound, fail to comply with applicable law or are otherwise inconsistent with laws and regulations or with the supervisory policies of these agencies. This supervisory framework could materially impact the conduct, growth and profitability of our operations. Any failure on our part to comply with current laws, regulations, other regulatory requirements or expectations or safe and sound banking practices or concerns about our financial condition, or any related regulatory sanctions or adverse actions against us, could increase our costs or restrict our ability to expand our business and result in damage to our reputation. Changes in laws, regulations and other regulatory requirements affecting the financial services industry, and the effects of such changes, are difficult to predict and may have unintended consequences. New regulations or changes in the regulatory environment could limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. These changes also can adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. The impact of the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act is still uncertain, is expected to increase our regulatory compliance burden and costs of doing business and could result in enhanced capital and leverage requirements and restrictions on certain products and services we offer. In July 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act which significantly changes the financial regulatory landscape and will affect the operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies as well as others. Although many of the details of the Dodd-Frank Act and the full impact it will have on our business or revenues are uncertain at this point, in part because many of the provisions require the adoption of implementing rules and regulations, the burden of compliance with the new law and its rules and regulations could increase operating costs and reduce revenue. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the adoption of new capital regulations by no later than January 2012. The regulations are required to be, at a minimum, as stringent as current capital and leverage requirements and may limit the use of subordinated debt or similar instruments to meet capital requirements. Future issuances of trust preferred securities have been disallowed as Tier 1 qualifying capital by the Dodd-Frank Act, although our currently outstanding trust preferred securities have been grandfathered for 23 Table of Contents Tier 1 eligibility. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires regulatory agencies to seek to make capital requirements for bank holding companies countercyclical, so that capital requirements increase in times of economic expansion and decrease in times of economic contraction. The U.S. federal banking agencies have also expressed support for recently issued proposals by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, commonly referred to as “Basel III,” that provide for heightened bank capital requirements that would be phased in over a multi-year period. To the extent the capital requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act are similar to the Basel III proposals, or otherwise impose heightened capital requirements, we could be required to raise additional capital depending on our business activities, asset mix, growth plans and results of operation. The Dodd-Frank Act also provides that certain financial institutions of our size will be required to conduct annual stress tests in accordance with regulations to be adopted. The testing will require resources and increase our compliance costs. In other provisions, the Dodd-Frank Act increases the regulation of derivatives and hedging transactions. This is expected to impact our capital markets group which offers an extensive range of over-the-counter interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives products to our clients. The regulations are expected to impose additional reporting and monitoring requirements, all of which would likely result in added costs of doing business, require higher capital and margin requirements and require that certain trades be executed through clearinghouses. Depending on the outcome of regulatory implementation, the prospects for our capital markets business and the demand for its products may be diminished. The Dodd-Frank Act repeals the prohibition on banks’ payment of interest on demand deposit accounts of commercial clients beginning one year from the date of enactment, and the market impact of this change is not yet known. Another significant aspect of the Dodd-Frank Act that will affect us is the creation of a new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the “Bureau”) with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Bureau will have broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. Among other things, it is anticipated that the Bureau may consider significant reforms in the mortgage industry that could have an adverse affect on our mortgage business. No assurance can be given as to the ultimate effect that the Dodd-Frank Act or any of its provisions will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations, the financial services industry or the economy. Our participation in the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program subjects us to certain restrictions. On January 30, 2009, we issued approximately $243.8 million of our senior preferred stock and warrants to purchase shares of common stock at an exercise price of $28.35 per share to the Treasury under the TARP Capital Purchase Program. Based on our participation in the CPP, we agreed to comply with its terms and conditions, which subjects us to certain restrictions, oversight, costs and compliance and reputational risks. For example, we may not, without the consent of the Treasury, increase our dividend, currently $0.01 per share per quarter, above a rate of $0.075 per quarter or, subject to certain exceptions, engage in repurchases of our common stock or trust preferred securities until January 30, 2012 or, if earlier, the date on which all preferred stock issued to the Treasury has been redeemed or transferred by the Treasury. Our participation in the CPP also subjects us to additional executive compensation and other restrictions, which may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain highly-qualified senior executive officers and other employees, particularly in light of the fact that some of the financial institutions with which we compete are not subject to the restrictions imposed by the CPP. Furthermore, under the terms of the securities purchase agreement we entered into with the Treasury, the Treasury will be able to unilaterally amend the agreement to make it consistent with any subsequent statutory provisions implemented by Congress. If we fail to comply with the terms and conditions of the program or the securities purchase agreement, including any restrictions upon our use of the CPP proceeds, we could become subject to a regulatory enforcement action or legal proceedings brought by the U.S. government, which, in turn, would present significant reputational risks for us that could affect our ability to retain or attract new clients or investors (if and when we determine to raise additional capital) or both. We have counterparty risk; the creditworthiness of other financial institutions could expose us to losses on contracts we have with these institutions and could adversely affect our ability to provide services to our clients, specifically products and services relating to foreign exchange, derivatives and letters of credit. Our ability to provide certain products and service could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other banks. Banks are interrelated as a result of lending, clearing, correspondent, counterparty and other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more banks, or the banking industry generally, have in the past led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of the transactions engaged in by us in the ordinary course of business, particularly in our capital markets group, expose us to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or customer. In such instances, the collateral we hold may be insufficient to mitigate our losses, as we may be unable to realize or liquidate at prices sufficient to recover the full amount of our exposure. Such losses could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Our capital markets group offers an extensive range of over-the-counter interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives products. Although we do not engage in any proprietary trading and we structure these client-generated trading activities to mitigate our exposure to market risk, we remain exposed to various risks, the most significant of which include credit risk of our counterparties, operational risk and settlement risk, which may be most significant in foreign exchange transactions where timing differences between settlement centers can result in us paying our client and/or counterparty before actually receiving the funds. The exposure of our counterparties requires active monitoring as well as liquidity management to ensure timely and cost efficient posting of collateral. Operational risk includes errors in execution of internal bank procedures and controls, which could expose us to financial and/or reputation loss. A lapse or breakdown of these procedures or controls could significantly increase our exposure to counterparty credit risk and operational risk, which could result in a material loss to us. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. We compete for loans, deposits, wealth management and other financial services in our geographic markets with other commercial banks, financial companies, thrifts, credit unions and brokerage firms operating in the markets we serve. Many of our competitors offer products and services that we do not or have greater resources and economies of scale to offer products and services that we offer more cost effectively. Certain of our competitors may have better name recognition and market presence that could benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do or offer more favorable terms. To be competitive, we will need to continue to invest in technology, infrastructure and human resources. This investment is directed at enhancing our risk management function and generating new products and services, and adapting existing products and services to the evolving standards and demands of our clients and regulators. Falling behind our competitors, who may have more extensive resources to invest, in any of these areas, could adversely affect our business. We may be required in the future to pay higher FDIC premiums or special assessments that could adversely affect our earnings. FDIC premiums and special assessments represent a significant cost for us. During 2010, we expensed total deposit insurance premiums of $24.3 million. In February 2011, the FDIC approved final rules that broaden the assessment base from one based on domestic deposits to one based on assets (less tangible equity), establish a separate risk-based assessment system for “large institutions” with more than $10 billion in assets and increase the maximum assessment rates (subject to further adjustment by the FDIC). Although our current expectation is that the new rules will not have a significant impact on our assessments, there can be no assurance that the adoption of the new rules will not result in increased premiums. Further, if the actions taken by the FDIC are insufficient to restore the insurance fund in a timely manner, or if additional bank failures further deplete the insurance fund, the FDIC may require even higher premiums and impose additional special assessments in the future. The FDIC could also increase our premiums as a result of regulatory examination findings or conclusions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 