Risk Factors. An investment in our company involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report, you should carefully consider each of the following risk factors in evaluating our business and prospects as well as an investment in our company. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or 9 that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. In that case the trading price of our common stock could decline. Our cash and other sources of liquidity may not be adequate to fund our operations for the next twelve months. If we raise additional funding through sales of equity or equity-based securities, your shares will be diluted. If we need additional funding for operations and we are unable to raise it, we may be forced to liquidate assets and/or curtail or cease operations. Management has projected that cash on hand, including cash received from our private placement of shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock in February 2010, and funding available under our non-OEM accounts receivable financing agreements will be sufficient to allow us to continue operations at current levels through the end of calendar 2010. Significant changes from our current forecast, including, but not limited to: (i) shortfalls from projected sales levels, (ii) unexpected increases in product costs, (iii) increases in operating costs and/or (iv) changes to the historical timing of collecting accounts receivable or to the borrowing terms on our non-OEM account receivable financing arrangements, could have a material adverse affect on our ability to access the level of funding necessary to continue operations at current levels. If any of these events occur management may be forced to make further reductions in spending, further extend payment terms with suppliers, liquidate assets where possible, and/or suspend or curtail planned programs. Any of these actions could materially harm our business, results of operations and future prospects. As a result of our recurring losses from operations and negative cash flows, the report from our independent registered public accounting firm regarding our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 includes an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We may seek debt, equity or equity-based financing (such as convertible debt) when market conditions permit. Such financing may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If we need additional funding for operations and are unable to raise it through debt or equity financings, we may be forced to liquidate assets and/or curtail or cease operations. In addition, such financing may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If we raise additional funds by selling additional shares of our capital stock, or securities convertible into shares of our capital stock, the ownership interest of our existing shareholders will be diluted. The amount of dilution could be increased by the issuance of warrants or securities with other dilutive characteristics, such as anti-dilution clauses or price resets. We urge you to review the additional information about our liquidity and capital resources in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this report. If we cease to continue as a going concern due to lack of available capital or otherwise, you may lose your entire investment in our company. We have a history of net losses. We expect to continue to incur net losses for some time and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred significant operating losses in our last three fiscal years and we anticipate continued losses during fiscal 2011. As of June 30, 2010 we had an accumulated deficit of $82.1 million. To return to profitability we will need to maintain or increase revenue, increase gross profit margins and improve our operating model. We may also need to implement additional cost reduction efforts across our operations as discussed below. Our financial condition and the “going concern” opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm may negatively impact our business. As a result of our recurring losses from operations and negative cash flows, the report from our independent registered public accounting firm regarding our consolidated financial statements for the year ended June 30, 10 2010 includes an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Such report, and our financial condition and history of net losses, could cause current or potential customers to defer new orders with us or to select other suppliers, and may cause suppliers to require terms that are unfavorable to us. We may need to implement additional cost reduction efforts across our operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2010 we reduced our worldwide workforce by 6.4%, or 15 employees, in connection with our realignment around core initiatives. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we further reduced our worldwide workforce by an additional 18.8%, or 42 employees, in connection with changes in our business model and a restructuring of our workforce. There can be no assurance that our cost reduction efforts will be successful and we may need to implement additional cost reduction initiatives, such as further reductions in the cost of our workforce and/or suspending or curtailing planned programs, either of which could materially harm our business, results of operations and future prospects. We rely on indirect sales channels to market and sell our branded products. Therefore, the loss of, or deterioration in, our relationship with one or more of our distributors or resellers could negatively affect our operating results. We sell all of our branded products through our network of distributors, VARs and DMRs, who in turn sell our products to end users. Our largest distributor in fiscal 2009 and 2008, Ingram Micro, accounted for 11.0% and 10.8% of sales in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. In fiscal 2010, Ingram Micro accounted for less than 10.0% of our sales. The long-term success of any of our distributors or resellers is difficult to predict, and we have no purchase commitments or long-term orders from our any of them to assure us of any baseline sales through these channels. Most of our distributors and resellers also carry competing product lines that they may promote over our products. A distributor or reseller might not continue to purchase our products or market them effectively, and each determines the type and amount of our products that it will purchase from us and the pricing of the products that it sells to end user customers. Our operating results could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • a change in competitive strategy that adversely affects a distributor’s or reseller’s willingness or ability to stock and distribute our products; • the reduction, delay or cancellation of orders or the return of a significant amount of our products; • the loss of one or more of our distributors or resellers; and • any financial difficulties of our distributors or resellers that result in their inability to pay amounts owed to us. If our suppliers fail to meet our manufacturing needs, it would delay our production and our product shipments to customers and negatively affect our operations. Our products have a large number of components and subassemblies produced by outside suppliers. We depend greatly on these suppliers for items that are essential to the manufacture of our products, including tape drives, printed circuit boards and integrated circuits. We work closely with our regional, national and international suppliers, which are carefully selected based on their ability to provide quality parts and components that meet both our technical specifications and volume requirements. For certain items, we qualify only a single source, which magnifies the risk of shortages and decreases our ability to negotiate with that supplier on the basis of price. From time to time, we have been unable to obtain as many drives as we have needed due to drive shortages or quality issues from certain of our suppliers. If our suppliers fail to meet our manufacturing needs, it would delay our production and our product shipments to customers and negatively affect our operations. 11 We entered into a strategic manufacturing agreement with Foxconn as an outsourced manufacturer of select products. Our use of an outsourced manufacturing provider may not produce the intended benefits. In October 2009, we entered into a strategic manufacturing agreement with Foxconn in order to strengthen our product supply chain and global manufacturing capabilities. Foxconn initially will collaborate with us on the manufacturing of one product line. The manufacturing agreement provides a framework for expansion of the collaboration to other product lines should the parties mutually decide to expand the relationship. Neither party is obligated to expand the relationship. The transition to outsourced manufacturing is a complex task. If not properly executed, delays in transition may occur, product quality may decline and product costs may increase. If Foxconn is unable or unwilling to complete the transition in a timely and satisfactory manner, we may be required to continue to manufacture longer than originally intended or to locate an acceptable alternative manufacturer. Assuming a successful transition is completed, we still may have to change to another manufacturer because of problems with delivery schedules, manufacturing quality, product costs or other factors. In addition to the above, reliance on outsourced manufacturing involves a number of risks, including reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing quality and product costs. Further, our requirements represent only a small portion of the total capacity of Foxconn, who could re-allocate capacity to other customers even during periods of high demand for our products. In addition, the continuing tight credit in financial markets may affect the ability of Foxconn and other suppliers to maintain their production capacity and result in a reduction in their supply to us. If we are unable to obtain our products from Foxconn and other suppliers on schedule, or at all, our ability to satisfy customer demand will be harmed and revenue from the sale of products may be lost or delayed. Any problems associated with the matters discussed above could result in significant expense, delays in shipment, a significant loss of potential revenues and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have granted security interests over certain of our assets in connection with various debt arrangements. We have granted security interests over certain of our assets in connection with various debt arrangements and we may grant additional security interests to secure future borrowings. If we are unable to satisfy our obligations under these arrangements, we could be forced to sell certain assets that secure these loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. We may grant additional security interests to secure future borrowings. In addition, we have granted security interests in connection with our non-OEM financing arrangements. In the event we were unable to maintain compliance with covenants set forth in these arrangements or if these arrangements are otherwise terminated for any reason, it could have a material adverse affect on our ability to access the level of funding necessary to continue operations at current levels. If any of these events occur, management may be forced to make further reductions in spending, further extend payment terms with suppliers, liquidate assets where possible, and/or suspend or curtail planned programs. Any of these actions could materially harm our business, results of operations and future prospects. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate rapid technological changes and develop new and enhanced products. As an advanced technology company, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties characterized by rapid technological change and intense competition. Our future success will depend on our ability to anticipate changes in technology, and to develop, introduce, manufacture and achieve market acceptance of new and enhanced products on a timely and cost-effective basis. Development schedules for technology products are inherently uncertain. We may not meet our product development schedules, and development costs could exceed budgeted amounts. Our business, results of 12 operations, financial position and liquidity may be materially and adversely affected if the products or product enhancements that we develop are delayed or not delivered due to developmental problems, quality issues or component shortage problems, or if our products or product enhancements do not achieve market acceptance or are unreliable. We or our competitors will continue to introduce products embodying new technologies, such as new sequential or random access mass storage devices. In addition, new industry standards may emerge. Such events could render our existing products obsolete or not marketable, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. Our disk-based products involve many significant risks and may fail to achieve or maintain market acceptance. The success of our Snap Server® family of disk-based products is uncertain and subject to significant risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. We must commit significant resources to sustain these products and will continuously need to update and upgrade them to stay competitive. Any delay in the commercial release of new or enhanced disk-based products could result in a significant loss of potential revenue and may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, if our disk-based products do not achieve market acceptance or success, then the association of our brand name with these products may adversely affect our reputation and sales of other products, diluting the value of our brand name. Our business has been highly dependent on sales to large OEM customers, and we are currently in a transition with our largest OEM customer. HP has historically been our largest customer, accounting for 22.5%, 29.7% and 35.2% of sales in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Ingram Micro has historically been our largest distribution customer, accounting for 11.0% and 10.8% of sales in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. In fiscal 2010, Ingram Micro accounted for less than 10.0% of sales. No other customer accounted for more than 10.0% of sales in any year during the three-year period ended June 30, 2010. In August 2005, HP notified us that it had selected an alternate supplier for its next-generation mid-range tape automation products. HP began purchasing the first product of this new line from the alternate supplier during the first quarter of calendar year 2006, which decreased our sales to HP. However, in mid-2007, HP re-launched its tape automation products supplied by us with support for HP’s new LTO-4 tape drives, which slowed the rate of replacement of our supplied products by the alternate supplier’s product. Although we believe that our sales to HP will continue to decline, we recently extended our supply agreement with HP until July 2012 with automatic renewals for three consecutive one-year periods unless earlier terminated. We cannot predict the rate at which our sales to HP will decline. If they fall short of their forecast it may have a significant impact on revenue during fiscal 2011. Neither HP nor any other customer is obligated to purchase a specific amount of our products or provide binding forecasts of purchases for any period. We face intense competition and price pressure, and many of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do. The worldwide storage market is intensely competitive. A number of manufacturers of tape and disk-based storage solutions compete for a limited number of customers. In addition, barriers to entry are relatively low in these markets. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources, larger research and development staffs, and more experience and capabilities in manufacturing, marketing and distributing products. Ongoing pricing pressure could result in significant price erosion, reduced profit margins and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. 13 Our business is highly dependent on the continued market acceptance and usage of tape-based systems for data backup and recovery. We have historically derived a majority of our revenue from products that use magnetic tape drives for backup and recovery of digital data. Our tape-based storage solutions now compete directly with other storage technologies, such as hard disk drives, and may face competition in the future from other emerging technologies. The prices of hard disk drives continue to decrease as their capacity and performance increase. We expect our tape-based products to face increased competition from these alternative technologies and come under increasing pricing pressure. If our strategy to compete in disk-based markets does not succeed, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. If our revenue base continues to decline, we may choose to discontinue or exit some or a substantial portion of our current operations. Our management team continually reviews and evaluates our product portfolio, operating structure and markets to assess the future viability of our existing products and market positions. We may determine that the infrastructure and expenses necessary to sustain an existing product offering are greater than the potential contribution margin that we would realize. As a result, we may determine that it is in our interest to exit or divest one or more existing product offerings, which could result in costs incurred for exit or disposal activities and/or impairments of long-lived assets. Moreover, if we do not identify other opportunities to replace discontinued products or operations, our revenues would decline, which could lead to further net losses and adversely impact the market price of our common stock. Our ability to compete depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws to protect our intellectual property rights. However, these rights may not prevent competitors from developing products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products. To the extent we have or obtain patents, such patents may not afford meaningful protection for our technology and products. Others may challenge our patents and, as a result, our patents could be narrowed, invalidated or declared unenforceable. In addition, our current or future patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents in the United States or foreign countries. The laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as U.S. laws. Furthermore, competitors may independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or, if patents are issued to us, design around these patents. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate interference proceedings, oppositions, or patent litigation against third parties, such as infringement suits. Such enforcement efforts could be expensive and divert management’s time and attention from other business concerns. The patent position of information technology firms in particular is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions, and continues to be the subject of much litigation. No consistent policy has emerged from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or the courts regarding the breadth of claims allowed or the degree of protection afforded under information technology patents. In August 2010, we filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California against BDT AG, BDT Products, Inc. and BDT-Solutions GmbH. The lawsuit claims infringement of two of our United States patents, Nos. 6,328,766 and 6,353,581. The complaint broadly claims infringement by BDT’s products, and it specifically identifies BDT’s FlexStor® II product line as infringing our patents. We have initiated service of the complaint on the defendants, and discovery is not yet underway in the litigation. 14 Our success depends in part on our ability to operate without infringing on or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. We may at any time be sued for infringing the patent rights or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. Intellectual property litigation is costly and, even if we prevail, the cost of such litigation could adversely affect our business, liquidity, results of operations and financial position. In addition, litigation diverts management’s time, attention and resources away from other aspects of our business. If we do not prevail in any litigation, we could be required to stop the infringing activity and/or pay substantial damages. Under some circumstances in the United States, these damages could be triple the actual damages the patent holder incurs. If we supply infringing products to third parties, or if we license third parties to manufacture, use or market infringing products, we may be obligated to indemnify these third parties for any damages they may be required to pay to the patent holder and for any losses the third parties may sustain as a result of lost sales or damages paid to the patent holder. If a third party holding rights under a patent successfully asserts an infringement claim with respect to any of our products, we may be prevented from manufacturing or marketing our infringing product in the country or countries covered by the patent we infringe, unless we can obtain a license from the patent holder. Such licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Some licenses may be non-exclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to market some of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operations and financial position. We could incur charges for excess and obsolete inventory. The value of our inventory may be adversely affected by factors that affect our ability to sell the products in our inventory. Such factors include changes in technology, introductions of new products by us or our competitors, the current or future economic downturns, or other actions by our competitors. If we do not effectively forecast and manage our inventory, we may need to write off inventory as excess or obsolete, which adversely affects cost of sales and gross profit. We have previously experienced, and may in the future experience, reductions in sales of older generation products as customers delay or defer purchases in anticipation of new products that we or our competitors may introduce. We have established reserves for slow moving or obsolete inventory. These reserves, however, may prove to be inadequate, which would result in additional charges for excess or obsolete inventory. Our warranty reserves may not adequately cover our warranty obligations. We have established reserves for the estimated liability associated with our product warranties. However, we could experience unforeseen circumstances where these or future reserves may not adequately cover our warranty obligations. For example, the failure or inadequate performance of product components that we purchase could increase our warranty obligations beyond these reserves. The failure to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could have a significant adverse impact on our operations. We have experienced significant changes in our senior management. In January 2010, our Board of Directors appointed Eric L. Kelly, who has served as our Chief Executive Officer since January 2009 and on our Board of Directors since November 13, 2007, as our President. In January 2009, Vernon A. LoForti, who had served as our Chief Executive Officer and President and on our Board of Directors since August 2007, transitioned to the role of President and resigned from our Board of Directors. In September 2009, we terminated the employment of Mr. LoForti. In February 2010, we terminated the employment of Ravi Pendekanti, our former Vice President of Business Development and Solutions. In September 2009, Christopher Gopal joined us as our Vice President of Worldwide Operations and in February 2010, Geoff Barrall joined us as our Chief Technology Officer and Vice President of Engineering. These changes may be a distraction to other senior 15 management, business operations, commercial partners and customers. Additionally, we have experienced a prolonged period of operating losses and declines in our stock price and cash position, which have affected and may continue to affect employee morale and retention. We reduced our workforce by 13.0% worldwide in August 2008, by 3.4% in December 2008, by 17.0% in January 2009, by 11.1% in March 2009, by 6.4% in October 2009 and by 18.8% in April 2010. In addition, we enacted a temporary 10.0% salary reduction for all employees in January 2009, which was partially reinstated in fiscal 2010. Additional turnover, particularly among senior management, may also create distractions as we search for replacement personnel, which could result in significant recruiting, relocation, training and other costs, and can cause operational inefficiencies as replacement personnel become familiar with our business and operations. In addition, manpower in certain areas may be constrained, which could lead to disruptions over time. We cannot guarantee that we will successfully attract or retain the management we need, or be able to maintain an optimal workforce size. Any inability to attract, retain or motivate such personnel or to address manpower constraints could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. We do not currently maintain any key-man insurance for any of our employees. We face risks related to the continuing economic downturn. The continuing economic downturn in the U.S. and global financial markets, and in the U.S. and global economies, has had, and may continue to have, a material and adverse impact on our business and our financial condition. Businesses may further reduce or postpone spending on IT infrastructure in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and declines in income or asset values. We believe that such reduction in, or postponement of, spending has had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products. We cannot predict the length or severity of the current economic downturn, or the timing or severity of future economic or industry downturns. The continuing uncertainty in the capital markets may also severely restrict our ability to access the capital markets, which would limit our ability to react to changing economic and business conditions. A prolonged recession or continued or further decline in the global economy would materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Our financial results may fluctuate substantially for many reasons, and past results should not be relied on as indications of future performance. The markets that we serve are volatile and subject to market shifts that we may be unable to anticipate. A slowdown in the demand for workstations, mid-range computer systems, networks and servers could have a significant adverse effect on the demand for our products in any given period. In the past, we have experienced delays in the receipt of purchase orders and, on occasion, anticipated purchase orders have been rescheduled or have not materialized due to changes in customer requirements. Our customers may cancel or delay purchase orders for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, the rescheduling of new product introductions, changes in our customers’ inventory practices or forecasted demand, general economic conditions affecting our customers’ markets, changes in our pricing or the pricing of our competitors, new product announcements by us or others, quality or reliability problems related to our products, or selection of competitive products as alternate sources of supply. In particular, our ability to forecast sales to distributors, VARs and DMRs is especially limited because these customers typically provide us with relatively short order lead times or are permitted to change orders on short notice. Because a large portion of our sales is generated by our European channel, our first fiscal quarter (July through September) results of operations are often impacted by seasonally slow European orders, reflecting the summer holiday period in Europe. None of our customers is obligated to purchase a specific amount of our products. Our financial results have fluctuated and will continue to fluctuate quarterly and annually based on, among others, the following factors: • changes in customer mix (e.g., OEM vs. branded); • changes in product mix; 16 • fluctuations in average selling prices; • currency exchange fluctuations; • increases in costs and expenses associated with the introduction of new products; and • increases in the cost of or limitations on the availability of materials. We therefore believe that our revenue and operating results will continue to fluctuate, and that period-to-period comparisons are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied on as indications of future performance. Our revenue and operating results may fail to meet the expectations of public market analysts or investors, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. In addition, portions of our expenses are fixed and difficult to reduce if our revenues do not meet our expectations. These fixed expenses magnify the adverse effect of any revenue shortfall. We plan to replace our Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System within the next several years. This will be expensive and may be disruptive to our business. Our ERP system is 13 years old, and we plan to replace it within the next several years. Transitioning to a new ERP system will be expensive and time consuming, and our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if problems occur during the transition. In addition, we have modified our current ERP system significantly during its term of use and it is possible that we will experience a significant system failure before we replace it. Any such failure may materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity, results of operations and financial position. Our international operations are important to our business and involve unique risks. Sales to customers outside of the United States represent a significant portion of our total sales and we expect them to continue to do so. Sales to customers outside the United States are subject to various risks, including, but not limited to: • the imposition of governmental controls mandating compliance with various foreign and U.S. export laws; • currency exchange fluctuations; • weak economic conditions in foreign markets; • political and economic instability; • trade restrictions, tariffs and taxes; • longer payment cycles typically associated with international sales; and • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. Furthermore, we may be unable to comply with changes in foreign laws, rules and regulations applicable to us in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial position and liquidity. We are subject to exchange rate risk in connection with our international operations. We do not currently engage in foreign currency hedging activities and, therefore, we are exposed to some level of currency risk. While essentially all of our sales in international markets are denominated in U.S. dollars, our wholly-owned subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, France and Germany incur costs that are denominated in local currencies. As exchange rates vary, these results when translated into U.S. dollars may vary from expectations and adversely impact overall expected results. A weaker U.S. dollar would result in an increase to 17 revenue and expenses upon consolidation, and a stronger U.S. dollar would result in a decrease to revenue and expenses upon consolidation. Exchange rate transactions resulted in a net gain of $0.5 million during fiscal 2010. We have made a number of acquisitions in the past, including our June 2008 acquisition of the Snap Server® product line, and we may make acquisitions in the future. The failure to successfully integrate acquisitions and successfully complete product development and launch of the related products could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We have in the past and may in the future make acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies as we implement our business strategy. Mergers and acquisitions involve numerous risks, including liabilities that we may assume from the acquired company, difficulties in completion of in-process product development and assimilation of the operations and personnel of the acquired business, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, risks of entering markets in which we have no direct prior experience, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired business. Future mergers and acquisitions by us also may result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities and the incurrence of debt, amortization expense and potential impairment charges related to intangible assets. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, liquidity, results of operations and financial position. The market price of our common stock is volatile. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations since it commenced trading in February 1997, and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, including, but not limited to: • our ability to meet our working capital needs; • announcements concerning us, our competitors, our customers or our industry; • changes in earnings estimates by analysts; • purchasing decisions of HP and other significant customers; • quarterly variations in operating results; • the introduction of new technologies or products by us or our competitors; • changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; • the terms of any financing arrangements we enter into; and • changes in general economic conditions. In addition, stock markets generally have experienced extreme price and volume volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many smaller public companies for reasons frequently unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have transferred the listing of our common stock from The NASDAQ Global Market (Global Market) to The NASDAQ Capital Market (Capital Market). If our common stock is delisted from the Capital Market, our stock price could be adversely affected and the liquidity of our stock and our ability to obtain financing could be impaired. On December 15, 2009, we received written notification from The NASDAQ Stock Market, LLC (NASDAQ) that because we had not regained compliance with the minimum market value of publicly held shares of $15 million requirement set forth in NASDAQ Listing Rule 5450(b)(1)(C) by the December 14, 2009 expiration of the 90-day compliance period for this requirement, our common stock would be delisted from the 18 Global Market unless we requested an appeal of this determination to a NASDAQ Hearings Panel (the Panel). We requested an appeal of the determination and met with the Panel on January 20, 2010. On March 3, 2010, we received written notification from the Panel that it would continue the listing of our common stock on the Global Market subject to our demonstrating compliance with all continued listing standards of the Global Market on or before June 14, 2010. Prior to June 14, 2010, our management determined to apply to NASDAQ to transfer the listing of our common stock from the Global Market to the Capital Market. On June 14, we were notified that NASDAQ approved our application to transfer the listing of our common stock to the Capital Market, effective at the opening of trading on June 16, 2010. We are currently in compliance with all of the listing standards for listing on the Capital Market but we cannot provide any assurance that we will continue to be in compliance in the future. In addition, on December 8, 2009, we effected a one-for-three reverse stock split of our common stock to regain compliance with the minimum bid price of $1.00 per share requirement set forth in NASDAQ Listing Rule 5450(a)(1). Though the bid price of our common stock has remained above $1.00 per share since the reverse split, we cannot guarantee that it will remain at or above $1.00 per share. If the bid price drops below $1.00 per share, our common stock could become subject to delisting again and we may seek shareholder approval for an additional reverse split. A second reverse split could produce negative effects and we cannot provide any assurance that it would result in a long-term or permanent increase in the bid price of our common stock. For example, a second reverse split could make it more difficult for us to comply with other listing standards of NASDAQ, including requirements related to the minimum number of shares that must be in the public float, the minimum market value of publicly held shares and the minimum number of round lot holders. In addition, investors might consider the increased proportion of unissued authorized shares of common stock to issued shares of common stock to have an anti-takeover effect under certain circumstances by allowing for dilutive issuances which could prevent certain shareholders form changing the composition of our board of directors. Any delisting of our common stock by NASDAQ could adversely affect the our ability to attract new investors, decrease the liquidity of our outstanding shares of common stock, reduce our flexibility to raise additional capital, reduce the price at which our common stock trades and increase the transaction costs inherent in trading such shares with overall negative effects for our shareholders. In addition, delisting of our common stock could deter broker-dealers from making a market in or otherwise seeking or generating interest in our common stock, and might deter certain institutions and persons from investing in our securities at all. For these reasons and others, delisting could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have no unresolved comments from the SEC. 