ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to other information in this report, the following risks should be considered in evaluating our condition and prospects. These risks may have a material effect on our operating results. Risks Related to Our Company We have a limited operating history and as a result, it may be difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. We have a limited operating history despite the fact that we commenced our broker-dealer operations in 1999. As a result of acquisitions of Colonial Direct Financial Group Inc. and First Level Capital, now known as vFinance Investments, in 2001, EquityStation and select assets of Global in 2004, and select assets of Sterling Financial in 2006, our business has remained in flux. Our business and prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in the early stages of development. These risks are particularly severe among companies in new and rapidly evolving markets such as online business development services and those in regulated industries such as the securities industry. It may be difficult or impossible to accurately forecast our operating results and to evaluate our business and prospects based on our historical results. We have had substantial losses since inception. Prior to 2004, we had sustained substantial losses in each year since our inception due to ongoing operating expenses and a lack of revenues sufficient to offset those operating expenses. We have raised capital to fund ongoing operations by private sales of our securities, some of which sales have been highly dilutive and involved considerable expense. For the year ended December 31, 2004, when we earned a substantial profit for the first time in our history, our results amounted to net income of $2.2 million, including a $1.5 million non-cash gain on debt forgiveness. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, however, our results amounted to net losses of approximately $1.7 million, $2.2 million and $1.1 million, respectively. The net losses generated in 2007, 2006 and 2005 resulted primarily from increased costs from expanded facilities and staff, as well as amortization expense associated with the Global Acquisition and the acquisition of Sterling Financial, customer settlements and their respective legal costs, non-cash impairment charges in 2005 and stock option expense in 2007 and 2006. We expect to continue to make significant capital expenditures to enhance our products and technologies, and to expand domestic and international sales and operations. As a result, we will need to continue to generate significant additional revenue to achieve profitability and generate sufficient working capital to fund our planned spending. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to maintain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we do not achieve, maintain or increase our profitability, the market price for our common stock may further decline. Obtaining future financing may be costly and could be dilutive to existing stockholders. If we are not able to obtain financing when and in the amounts needed, and on terms that are acceptable, our operations, financial condition and prospects could be materially adversely affected, and we could be forced to curtail our operations or sell part or all of our assets. -16- We may need to raise additional funds, which may not be available when we need them. Based on our current spending plans and our projected working capital, we believe that our cash on hand and cash generated from our operations will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. However, we may attempt to raise additional capital to operate the business, support expansion plans, develop new or enhanced services and products, respond to competitive pressures, acquire complementary businesses or technologies or respond to unanticipated events. We can provide no assurances that additional financing will be available when needed on favorable terms, if at all. If these funds are not available when we need them, we may need to change our business strategy or reduce our operations or investment activities. In addition, any issuance of additional equity securities will dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders and the issuance of additional debt securities may increase the perceived risk of investing in us. If we do not secure substantial additional funding to meet our capital needs, we may have to issue additional shares of common stock. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our current stockholders will be reduced and these securities may have rights and preferences superior to those of our current stockholders. If we raise capital through debt financing, we may be forced to accept restrictions affecting our liquidity, including restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness or pay dividends. We are currently subject to extensive securities regulation and the failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to penalties or sanctions. The securities industry and our business are subject to extensive regulation by the SEC, state securities regulators and other governmental regulatory authorities. We are also regulated by industry self-regulatory organizations, including FINRA, the NFA and the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board. The regulatory environment is also subject to change, and we may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, other federal or state governmental regulatory authorities, or self-regulatory organizations. We also may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. vFinance Investments and EquityStation are registered broker-dealers with the SEC and members of FINRA. Broker-dealers are subject to regulations which cover all aspects of the securities business, including: o sales methods and supervision; o trading practices among broker-dealers; o use and safekeeping of customers' funds and securities; o capital structure of securities firms; o record keeping; and o the conduct of directors, officers and employees. -17- Compliance with many of the regulations applicable to us involves a number of risks, particularly in areas where applicable regulations may be subject to varying interpretation. The requirements imposed by these regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who deal with us. Consequently, these regulations often serve to limit our activities, including through net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements. Much of the regulation of broker-dealers has been delegated to self-regulatory organizations, principally FINRA Regulation, Inc., the regulatory arm of FINRA. We are primarily regulated by FINRA and the SEC. FINRA Regulation Inc. adopts rules, subject to approval by the SEC, that govern its members and conducts periodic examinations of member firms' operations. If we are found to have violated any applicable regulation, formal administrative or judicial proceedings may be initiated against us that may result in: o censure; o fine; o civil penalties, including treble damages in the case of insider trading violations; o the issuance of cease-and-desist orders; o the deregistration or suspension of our broker-dealer activities; o the suspension or disqualification of our officers or employees; and/or o other adverse consequences. The imposition of any of these or other penalties could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We are subject to various risks associated with the securities industry. As securities broker-dealers, we are subject to uncertainties that are common in the securities industry. These uncertainties include: o the volatility of domestic and international financial, bond and stock markets, as demonstrated by past disruptions in the financial markets; o extensive governmental regulation; o litigation; o intense competition; o substantial fluctuations in the volume and price level of securities; and o dependence on the solvency of various third parties. As a result of these risks, revenues and earnings may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. We are much smaller and have much less capital than many of our competitors in the securities industry. Accordingly, we could be impacted by these risks to a larger degree. In the event of a market downturn, our revenues would likely decline and, if we were unable to reduce expenses at the same pace, our profit margins would quickly erode. -18- Our business could be adversely affected by a breakdown in the financial markets. As a securities broker-dealer, our business is materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions in general, both in the United States and elsewhere around the world. Many factors or events could lead to a breakdown in the financial markets including war, terrorism, natural catastrophes and other types of disasters. These types of events could cause people to begin to lose confidence in the financial markets and their ability to function effectively. If the financial markets are unable to effectively prepare for these types of events and ease public concern over their ability to function, our revenues may decline and our operations could be adversely affected. We have incurred, and may in the future incur, significant losses from trading and investment activities due to market fluctuations and volatility. We generally maintain trading and investment positions in the equity markets. To the extent that we own assets, i.e., have long positions, a downturn in those markets could result in losses from a decline in the value of such long positions. Conversely, to the extent that we have sold assets that we do not own, i.e., have short positions in any of those markets, an upturn could expose us to potentially unlimited losses as we attempt to cover our short positions by acquiring assets in a rising market. We may, from time to time, have a trading strategy consisting of holding a long position in one asset and a short position in another from which we expect to earn revenues based on changes in the relative value of the two assets. If, however, the relative value of the two assets changes in a direction or manner that we did not anticipate or against which we are not hedged, we might realize a loss in those paired positions. In addition, we maintain trading positions that can be adversely affected by the level of volatility in the financial markets, i.e., the degree to which trading prices fluctuate over a particular period, in a particular market, regardless of market levels. Our revenues may decline in adverse market or economic conditions. Unfavorable financial or economic conditions may reduce the number and size of the transactions in which we provide underwriting services, merger and acquisition consulting and other services. Our investment banking revenues, in the form of financial advisory and underwriting fees, are directly related to the number and size of the transactions in which we participate and would therefore be adversely affected by a sustained market downturn. Additionally, a downturn in market conditions could lead to a decline in the volume of transactions that we execute for our customers and, therefore, to a decline in the revenues we receive from commissions and spreads. Customer relationship intangible assets comprised approximately 27% and 35% of our total assets as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We must review customer relationships for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that impairment may be present, which may result in a material, non-cash write down of customer relationships. A significant decrease in revenues or cash flows derived from acquired customer relationships could result in a material, non-cash write-down of customer relationships. Such impairment would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and shareholders' equity. -19- Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified risks or an unanticipated level of risk. The policies and procedures we employ to identify, monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective. Some methods of risk management are based on the use of observed historical market behavior. As a result, these methods may not accurately predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. Other risk management methods depend on evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. This information may not be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to properly record and verify a large number of transactions and events. We cannot be assured that our policies and procedures will effectively and accurately record and verify this information. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a variety of separate, but complementary financial, credit, operational and legal reporting systems. We believe that we are able to evaluate and manage the market, credit and other risks to which we are exposed. Nonetheless, our ability to manage risk exposure can never be completely or accurately predicted or fully assured. For example, unexpectedly large or rapid movements or disruptions in one or more markets or other unforeseen developments can have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The consequences of these developments can include losses due to adverse changes in inventory values, decreases in the liquidity of trading positions, higher volatility in earnings, increases in our credit risk to customers as well as to third parties and increases in general systemic risk. Credit risk exposes us to losses caused by financial or other problems experienced by third parties. We are exposed to the risk that third parties that we us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties include: o trading counterparties; o customers; o clearing agents; o exchanges; o clearing houses; and o other financial intermediaries as well as issuers whose securities we hold. These parties may default on their obligations owed to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. This risk may arise, for example, from: o holding securities of third parties; o executing securities trades that fail to settle at the required time due to non-delivery by the counterparty or systems failure by clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries; and o extending credit to clients through bridge or margin loans or other arrangements. Significant failures by third parties to perform their obligations owed to us could adversely affect our revenues and perhaps our ability to borrow in the credit markets. -20- We may have difficulty retaining or recruiting our independent contractors. We are dependent upon the independent contractor model for our retail brokerage business. As such, approximately 86% of our retail registered representatives were independent contractors as of December 31, 2007. We are exposed to the risk that a large group of independent contractors leave the firm or decide to affiliate with another firm and that we are unable to recruit suitable replacements. A loss of a large group of our independent contractors could have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate revenue in the retail brokerage business. We may have difficulty effectively managing our growth. Over the past several years, we have experienced significant growth in our business activities through a variety of transactions. We expect our business to continue to grow through similar transactions as well as organically. Future growth through mergers, acquisitions and other such transactions involves numerous risks such as: o difficulties and expenses incurred in connection with the subsequent assimilation of the operations and services or products of the acquired company; o the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; and o the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. If we are unable to effectively address these risks, we may be required to restructure the acquired business or write off the value of some or all of the assets of the acquired business. Further, this type of growth requires increased investments in management personnel, financial and management systems and controls as well as facilities. We cannot be assured that we will experience parallel growth in these areas. If these areas do not grow at the same time, our operating margins may decline from current levels. Additionally, as is common in the securities industry, we will continue to be highly dependent on the effective and reliable operation of our communications and information systems. We believe that our current and anticipated future growth will require implementation of new and enhanced communications and information systems and training of our personnel to operate such systems. Any difficulty or significant delay in the implementation or operation of existing or new systems or the training of personnel could adversely affect our ability to manage our growth. Intense competition from existing and new entities may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. The securities industry is rapidly evolving, intensely competitive and has few barriers to entry. We expect competition to continue to intensify in the future. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. They may also offer a wider range of services and financial products and have greater name recognition and a larger client base than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies and client requirements. They may also be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to clients, and adopt more aggressive pricing policies. We may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors and competitive pressures faced by us may harm our business. -21- The precautions we take to prevent and detect employee misconduct may not be effective, and we could be exposed to unknown and unmanaged risks or losses. We run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. Misconduct by employees could include: o employees binding us to transactions that exceed authorized limits or present unacceptable risks to us; o employees hiding unauthorized or unsuccessful activities from us; or o the improper use of confidential information. These types of misconduct could result in unknown and unmanaged risks or losses to us including regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. The precautions we take to prevent and detect these activities may not be effective. If employee misconduct does occur, our business operations could be materially adversely affected. We may experience losses associated with securities laws violations and litigation. Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability. An underwriter is exposed to substantial liability under federal and state securities laws, other federal and state laws, and court decisions, including decisions with respect to underwriters' liability and limitations on indemnification of underwriters by issuers. For example, a firm that acts as an underwriter may be held liable for material misstatements or omissions of fact in a prospectus used in connection with the securities being offered or for statements made by its securities analysts or other personnel. In recent years, there has been an increasing incidence of litigation involving the securities industry, including class actions that seek substantial damages. Our underwriting activities will usually involve offerings of the securities of smaller companies, which often involve a higher degree of risk and are more volatile than the securities of more established companies. In comparison with more established companies, smaller companies are also more likely to be the subject of securities class actions, not to carry directors and officer's liability insurance or policies with lower limits, and to become insolvent. Each of these factors increases the likelihood that an underwriter of smaller companies' securities will be required to contribute to an adverse judgment or settlement of a securities lawsuit. In the normal course of business, our operating subsidiaries have been and continue to be the subject of numerous civil actions and arbitrations arising out of customer complaints relating to our activities as a broker-dealer and as a result of other business activities. In general, the cases involve various allegations that our employees mishandled customer accounts. We believe that, based on our historical experience and the reserves established by us, the resolution of the claims presently pending will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. However, although we typically reserve an amount we believe will be sufficient to cover any damages assessed against us, we have in the past been assessed damages that exceeded our reserves. If we misjudged the amount of damages that may be assessed against us from pending or threatened claims or if we are unable to adequately estimate the amount of damages that will be assessed against us from claims that arise in the future and fail to appropriately reserve, our financial condition may be materially adversely affected. -22- Our "vFinance" brand may not achieve the broad recognition necessary to succeed. We believe that broader recognition and positive perception of the "vFinance" brand is essential to our future success. Accordingly, we intend to continue to pursue an aggressive brand enhancement strategy, which will include multimedia advertising, promotional programs and public relations activities. These initiatives will require significant expenditures. If our brand enhancement strategy is unsuccessful, these expenses may never be recovered and we may be unable to increase future revenues. Successful positioning of our brand will depend in a large part on: o the success of our advertising and promotional efforts; o an increase in the number of users and page views of our website; and o the ability to continue to provide a website and services useful to our clients. If we do not continue to develop and enhance our services in a timely manner, our business may be harmed. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop and enhance our services and add new services. We operate in a very competitive industry in which the ability to develop and deliver advanced services through the Internet and other channels is a key competitive factor. There are significant risks in the development of new or enhanced services, including the risks that we will be unable to: o effectively use new technologies; o adapt our services to emerging industry or regulatory standards; or o market new or enhanced services. If we are unable to develop and introduce new or enhanced services quickly enough to respond to market or customer requirements or to comply with emerging industry standards, or if these services do not achieve market acceptance, our business could be seriously harmed. Internet and internal computer system failures or compromises of our systems or security could damage our reputation and harm our business. Although a significant portion of our business is conducted using traditional methods of contact and communications such as face-to-face meetings, a portion of our business is conducted through the Internet. We could experience system failures and degradations in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to prevent an extended system failure if any of the following events occur: o human error; o subsystem, component or software failure; o a power or telecommunications failure; o an earthquake, fire or other natural disaster or act of God; o hacker attacks or other intentional acts of vandalism; or o terrorists acts or war. -23- Failure to adequately protect the integrity of our computer systems and safeguard the transmission of confidential information could harm our business. The secure transmission of confidential information over public networks is a critical element of our operations. We rely on encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet. We do not believe that we have experienced any security breaches in the transmission of confidential information. In 2007, however, we were the target of hacking that affected some of our internal databases and our website. Since that incident, we have invested in several defensive systems, including, but not limited to, updating data encryption to current standards, upgrading password requirements to "strong passwords" and adding state of the art firewall protection across all of our networks. Moreover, we continually evaluate advanced encryption technology to try and ensure the continued integrity of our systems. However, we cannot assure you that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments will not result in a compromise of the technology or other algorithms used by our vendors and us to protect client transaction and other data. Any compromise of our systems or security could harm our business. We depend on a limited number of key executives who would be difficult to replace. Our success depends significantly on the continued services of our senior management, especially Leonard J. Sokolow, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Losing Mr. Sokolow or any of our subsidiaries' other key executives could seriously harm our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key executives or that we would be able to replace any of our key executives if we were to lose their services for any reason. Competition for these executives is intense. If we had to replace any of these key executives, we would not be able to replace the significant amount of knowledge that these key executives have about our operations. We do not maintain "key person" insurance policies on any of our executives. Our operating broker-dealer subsidiaries extend credit to their clients and are subject to risks as a result. Our broker-dealers, vFinance Investments and EquityStation, clear all transactions for customers on a fully-disclosed basis with their clearing brokers, NFS, Fortis Clearing, Legent Clearing and Penson Clearing. These clearing brokers carry and clear all customer securities accounts. A limited portion of the customer securities activities for both broker-dealers are transacted on a "margin" basis, pursuant to which credit is extended to customer. The credit extended to customers (a) is secured by cash and securities in customer accounts, or (b) involves (i) "short sales" (i.e., the sale of securities not yet purchased) or (ii) the purchase and sale of commodity futures contracts, substantially all of which are transacted on a margin basis. These risks are increased during periods of volatile markets in which the value of the collateral held could fall below the amount borrowed by clients. If margin requirements are not sufficient to cover losses, our broker-dealers may be required to sell or buy securities at prevailing market prices and incur losses to satisfy their client obligations. -24- We may underwrite securities through vFinance Investments and are subject to losses relating to a decline in the market value of securities that we hold in inventory and to potential liability for engaging in underwriting activities. The underwriting activities of vFinance Investments involve the purchase, sale or short sale of securities as a principal. As an underwriter, vFinance Investments purchases securities on a "firm commitment" basis and is subject to risk that it may be unable to resell securities or be required to dispose of securities at a loss. In connection with our investment-banking activities in which vFinance Investments acts as a manager or co-manager of public offerings of securities, we expect to make increased commitments through vFinance Investments of capital to market-making activities in securities of those issuers. Any additional concentration of capital in the securities of those issuers held in inventory will increase the risk of loss from possible declines in the market price of those securities. In addition, under federal securities laws, other laws and court decisions with respect to underwriters' liabilities and limitations on the indemnification of underwriters by issuers, an underwriter is subject to substantial potential liability for misstatements or omissions of material facts in prospectuses and other communications with respect to securities offerings. Our potential liability through vFinance Investments as an underwriter is generally not covered by insurance. Moreover, underwriting commitments constitute a charge against net capital and the ability of vFinance Investments to make underwriting commitments may be limited by the requirement that it must at all times be in compliance with the net capital rule. Our success and ability to compete depend to a significant degree on our intellectual property. We rely on copyright and trademark law, as well as confidentiality arrangements, to protect our intellectual property. We own the following federally registered marks: vFinance, Inc.(R), vFinance.com, Inc.(R), AngelSearch(R), Direct2Desk(R) and Hedge Fund Accelerator(R). We currently do not have any patents. The concepts and technologies we use may not be patentable. Our competitors or others may adopt product or service names similar to "vFinance.com," thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to client confusion. Our inability to adequately protect the name "vFinance.com" would seriously harm our business. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is made especially difficult by the global nature of the Internet and the inherent difficulty in controlling the ultimate destination or security of software or other data transmitted on it. The laws of other countries may afford us little or no effective protection for our intellectual property. We cannot assure you that the steps we take will prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property or that agreements entered into for that purpose will be enforceable. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to: o enforce our intellectual property rights; o determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others; or o defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversions of resources, either of which could seriously harm our business. -25- Our Board of Directors can issue shares of "blank check" preferred stock without further action by our stockholders. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without further action by the stockholders, to issue up to 2.5 million shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions in each series of the preferred stock, including: o dividend rights; o conversion rights; o voting rights, which may be greater or lesser than the voting rights of the common stock; o rights and terms of redemption; o liquidation preferences; and o sinking fund terms. The issuance of shares of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of holders of our common stock and the likelihood that these holders will receive dividends and payments upon our liquidation and could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company. We have no current plans to issue any additional preferred stock in the next twelve months. Although the issuance of preferred stock may be necessary in order to raise additional capital. Our stock price has been and continues to be volatile. The market price for our common stock could fluctuate due to various factors. These factors include: o announcements regarding developments in our business, acquisitions and financing transactions; o announcements by us or our competitors of new contracts, technological innovations or new products; o changes in government regulations; o fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results; and o general market conditions. In addition, the stock markets have, in recent years, experienced significant price fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies whose stock is traded. Market fluctuations, as well as economic conditions, have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the market price of our common stock. -26- There are risks associated with our stock trading on the OTC Bulletin Board rather than a national exchange. There are significant consequences associated with our stock trading on the OTC Bulletin Board rather than a national exchange. The effects of not being able to list our securities on a national exchange include: o limited release of the market prices of our securities; o limited news coverage; o limited interest by investors in our securities; o volatility of our stock price due to low trading volume; o increased difficulty in selling our securities in certain states due to "blue sky" restrictions; and o limited ability to issue additional securities or to secure additional financing. Because our common stock is subject to penny stock rules, a stockholder may have greater difficulty selling shares. The Securities Enforcement and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 applies to stocks characterized as "penny stocks," and requires additional disclosure relating to the market for penny stocks in connection with trades in any stock defined as a penny stock. The SEC has adopted regulations that generally define a penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. The exceptions include exchange-listed equity securities and any equity security issued by an issuer that has: o net tangible assets of at least $2.0 million, if the issuer has been in continuous operation for at least three years; o net tangible assets of at least $5.0 million, if the issuer has been in continuous operation for less than three years; or o average annual revenue of at least $6.0 million for the last three years. Unless an exception is available, the regulations require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the associated risks. If our financial condition does not meet the above tests, then trading in the common stock will be covered by Rules 15g-1 through 15g-6 and 15g-9 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). Under those rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than their established customers and institutional accredited investors must make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and must have received the purchaser's written agreement to a transaction prior to sale. These regulations would likely limit the ability of broker-dealers to trade in our common stock and thus would make it more difficult for purchasers of common stock to sell their securities in the secondary market. The market liquidity for the common stock could be severely affected. -27- Stockholders holdings may be diluted as a result of additional stock issuances. As of March 10, 2008, we had outstanding approximately 54.8 million shares of common stock, options to purchase an approximate total of 16.7 million shares of common stock and warrants to purchase an approximate total of 3.9 million shares of common stock. We are authorized to issue up to 100 million shares of common stock and are therefore able to issue additional shares without being required to obtain stockholder approval. If we issue additional shares, or if our existing stockholders exercise or convert their outstanding options or notes, our other stockholders may own a smaller percentage of the Company. 