Item 1A. RISK FACTORS.The economic performance and value of our shopping centers are dependent on many factors.The economic performance and value of our shopping centers are dependent on various factors. Additionally, these same factors will influence our decision whether to go forward on the development of new centers and may affect the ultimate economic performance and value of projects under construction. Adverse changes in the economic performance and value of our shopping centers would adversely affect our income and cash available to pay dividends.Such factors include:•changes in the global, national, regional, and/or local economic and geopolitical climates. Changes such as the recent global economic and financial market downturn caused or may in the future cause, among other things, a significant tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, lower consumer and business spending, and lower consumer confidence and net worth;•changes in specific local economies and/or real estate conditions. These changes may have a more significant impact on our financial performance due to the geographic concentration of some of our centers;•changes in mall tenant sales performance of our centers, which over the long term are the single most important determinant of revenues of the shopping centers because mall tenants provide approximately 90% of these revenues and because mall tenant sales determine the amount of rent, percentage rent, and recoverable expenses that mall tenants can afford to pay;•availability and cost of financing. While current interest rates continue to be historically low, it is uncertain how long such rates will continue;•the public perception of the safety of customers at our shopping centers;•legal liabilities;•changes in government regulations; and•changes in real estate zoning and tax laws.These factors may ultimately impact the valuation of certain long-lived or intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing, potentially resulting in impairment charges, which may be material to our financial condition or results of operations. See “MD&A – Results of Operations – Application of Critical Accounting Policies: Valuation of Shopping Centers" for additional information regarding impairment testing.In addition, the value and performance of our shopping centers may be adversely affected by certain other factors discussed below including the state of the capital markets, expansion into Asia, unscheduled closings or bankruptcies of our tenants, competition, uninsured losses, and environmental liabilities. 11Table of ContentsWe are in a competitive business.There are numerous shopping facilities that compete with our properties in attracting retailers to lease space. The existence of competing shopping centers could have a material adverse impact on our ability to develop or operate shopping centers, lease space, and on the level of rents that can be achieved. In addition, retailers at our properties face continued competition from shopping through various means and channels, including via the Internet, lifestyle centers, outlet malls, wholesale and discount shopping clubs, and television shopping networks. Competition of this type could adversely affect our revenues and cash available for distribution to shareowners. Further, as new technologies emerge, the relationship among customers, retailers, and shopping centers are evolving on a rapid basis and it is critical that we adapt to such new technologies and relationships on a timely basis. For example, a small but increasing number of tenants utilize our shopping centers as showrooms or as part of an omni-channel strategy (allowing customers to shop seamlessly through various sales channels). As a result, customers may make purchases during or immediately after visiting our shopping centers, with such sales not being captured currently in our tenant sales figures or monetized in our minimum or percentage rents.We compete with other major real estate investors with significant capital for attractive investment opportunities. These competitors include other REITs, investment banking firms, and private and institutional investors. This competition may impair our ability to acquire or develop suitable properties on favorable terms in the future.Our real estate investments are relatively illiquid.We may be limited in our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic, market, or other conditions by restrictions on transfer imposed by our partners or lenders. If we were unable to refinance our debt at a center, we may be required to contribute capital to repay debt, fund capital spending, or other cash requirements. In addition, under TRG’s partnership agreement, upon the sale of a center or TRG’s interest in a center, TRG may be required to distribute to its partners all of the cash proceeds received by TRG from such sale. If TRG made such a distribution, the sale proceeds would not be available to finance TRG’s activities, and the sale of a center may result in a decrease in funds generated by continuing operations and in distributions to TRG’s partners, including us. Further, pursuant to TRG’s partnership agreement, TRG may not dispose or encumber certain of its centers or its interest in such centers without the consent of a majority-in-interest of its partners other than us.We may acquire or develop new properties, and these activities are subject to various risks.We actively pursue development and acquisition activities as opportunities arise, and these activities are subject to the following risks:•the pre-construction phase for a new project often extends over several years, and the time to obtain landowner, anchor, and tenant commitments, zoning and regulatory approvals, and public financing can vary significantly from project to project;•we may not be able to obtain the necessary zoning, governmental approvals, or anchor or tenant commitments for a project, or we may determine that the expected return on a project is not sufficient; if we abandon our development activities with respect to a particular project, we may incur a loss on our investment;•construction and other project costs may exceed our original estimates because of increases in material and labor costs, delays, nonperformance of services by our contractors, and costs to obtain anchor and tenant commitments;•we may not be able to obtain financing or to refinance construction loans, which are generally recourse to TRG;•we may be obligated to contribute funding for development projects in excess of our ownership requirements if our partners are unable or are not required to fund their ownership share;•equity markets as a source of funds may become less financially favorable as affected by our stock price as well as general market conditions;•occupancy rates and rents, as well as occupancy costs and expenses, at a completed project or an acquired property may not meet our projections, and the costs of development activities that we explore but ultimately abandon will, to some extent, diminish the overall return on our completed development projects; and•competitive pressures in our targeted markets may negatively impact our ability to meet our initial leasing objectives. 12Table of ContentsWe currently have multiple projects under development in the U.S. and Asia for which we will be providing development, leasing and certain other services. Although we believe we have adequate resources and the ability to perform all responsibilities, certain risks described above may be magnified due to the higher level of activity. Certain of our projects under development represent the retail portion of larger mixed-use projects. As a result, there may be certain additional risks associated with such projects, including:•increased time to obtain necessary permits and approvals;•increased uncertainty regarding shared infrastructure and common area costs; and •impact on sales and performance of the retail center from delays in opening of other uses and or/the performance of such uses. In addition, global economic and market conditions may reduce viable development and acquisition opportunities that meet our unlevered return requirements. Our business activities and pursuit of new opportunities in Asia may pose risks.We have offices in Hong Kong, Seoul, Beijing, and Shanghai and we are pursuing and evaluating investment opportunities in various South Korea and China markets. We have invested in three joint ventures to develop shopping centers in Asia and may invest in other shopping centers in the future. We are also currently providing leasing and management services for a retail project in Seoul, South Korea and development, leasing, and management services for a retail project in Macau. In addition to the general risks related to development activities described in the preceding section, our international activities are subject to unique risks, including:•adverse effects of changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies;•changes in and/or difficulties in operating in foreign political environments;•difficulties in operating with foreign vendors and joint venture and business partners; •difficulties of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws including laws affecting funding, corporate governance, property ownership restrictions, development activities, operations, anti-corruption, taxes, and litigation;•changes in and/or difficulties in complying with applicable laws and regulations in the United States that affect foreign operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;•difficulties in managing international operations, including difficulties that arise from ambiguities in contracts written in foreign languages and difficulties that arise in enforcing such contracts;•differing lending practices; •differing employment and labor issues; •obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash;•lower initial investment returns than those generally experienced in the U.S.;•obstacles to hiring and maintaining appropriately trained staff; and•differences in cultures including adapting practices and strategies that have been successful in the U.S. regional mall business to retail needs and expectations in new markets. 13Table of ContentsIn regards to foreign currency, our projects in China and South Korea will require investments and may require debt financing denominated in foreign currencies, with the possibility that such investments will be greater than anticipated depending on changes in exchange rates. Similarly, these projects will generate returns on or of capital in foreign currencies that could ultimately be less than anticipated as a result of exchange rates. As part of investing in these projects, we are implementing appropriate risk management policies and practices, which may include the hedging of foreign currency risks. We cannot provide assurance that such policies and practices will be successful and/or that the applicable accounting for foreign currency hedges will be favorable to any particular period's results of operations. Foreign currency hedges could be economically beneficial to us, but could have unfavorable accounting impacts, depending on the qualification of the hedges for hedge accounting treatment.As we expand our international activities and levels of investment, these risks could increase in significance and adversely affect our financial returns on international projects and services and overall financial condition. We have put in place policies, practices, and systems for mitigating some of these international risks, although we cannot provide assurance that we will be entirely successful in doing so.We could be subject to liability, penalties and other sanctions and other adverse consequences arising out of non-compliance with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) or foreign anti-corruption laws We are subject to the FCPA, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and which requires proper record keeping and characterization of payments we make in our reports filed with the SEC. Although we have policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws, we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with, or be able to detect violations of, any such laws or regulations. We cannot provide assurance that these policies and procedures will protect us from intentional, reckless or negligent acts committed by our employees, agents, partners or others acting on our behalf. If our employees, agents, partners, or others acting on our behalf are found to have engaged in such practices, severe penalties and other consequences could be imposed. Those penalties and consequences that may be imposed against us or individuals in appropriate circumstances include, but are not limited to, injunctive relief, disgorgement, fines, penalties and modifications to business practices and compliance programs. In addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements or investigations to which our international operations might be subject, the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted, or the potential that we may face regulatory sanctions. Any of these violations or remedial measures, if applicable to us, could have a material adverse impact on our business, reputation, results of operations, cash flow, financial condition, liquidity, ability to make distributions to our shareholders or the value of our investments.Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, may not be subject to the FCPA. Accordingly, such companies may be more likely to engage in activities prohibited by the FCPA, which could have a significant adverse impact on our returns or our ability to compete for business in such countries. The bankruptcy, early termination, or closing of our tenants and anchors could adversely affect us.We could be adversely affected by the bankruptcy, early termination, or closing of tenants and anchors. The bankruptcy of a mall tenant could result in the termination of its lease, which would lower the amount of cash generated by that mall. In addition, if a department store operating as an anchor at one of our shopping centers were to go into bankruptcy and cease operating, we may experience difficulty and delay, and incur significant expense, in replacing the anchor. In addition, the anchor’s closing may lead to reduced customer traffic and lower mall tenant sales. As a result, we may also experience difficulty or delay in leasing spaces in areas adjacent to the vacant anchor space. The early termination or closing of mall tenants or anchors for reasons other than bankruptcy could have a similar impact on the operations of our centers, although in the case of early terminations we may benefit in the short-term from lease cancellation income. (See “MD&A – Rental Rates and Occupancy”).Our investments are subject to credit and market risk.We occasionally extend credit to third parties in connection with the sale of land or other transactions. We also have occasionally made investments in marketable and other equity securities. We are exposed to risk in the event the values of our investments and/or our loans decrease due to overall market conditions, business failure, and/or other nonperformance by the investees or counterparties. 14Table of ContentsCapital markets may limit our sources of funds for financing activities.Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access those markets. This could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. A lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to obtain and manage our liquidity. In addition, the cost of debt financing and the proceeds may be materially adversely impacted by such market conditions. Also, our ability to access equity markets as a source of funds may be affected by our stock price as well as general market conditions.We are obligated to comply with financial and other covenants that could affect our operating activities.Certain loan agreements contain various restrictive covenants, including the following corporate covenants on our unsecured primary revolving line of credit and unsecured term loan: a minimum net worth requirement, a maximum total leverage ratio, a maximum secured leverage ratio, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, a maximum recourse secured debt ratio, and a maximum payout ratio. In addition, our primary revolving line of credit and term loan have unencumbered pool covenants, which currently apply to Beverly Center, Dolphin Mall, Fairlane Town Center, Twelve Oaks Mall, and The Shops at Willow Bend on a combined basis. These covenants include a minimum number and minimum value of eligible unencumbered assets, a maximum unencumbered leverage ratio, a minimum unencumbered interest coverage ratio, and a minimum unencumbered asset occupancy ratio. The corporate maximum secured leverage ratio is the most restrictive covenant for our primary revolving line of credit and term loan. These covenants may restrict our ability to pursue certain business initiatives or certain transactions that might otherwise be advantageous. In addition, failure to meet certain of these financial covenants could cause an event of default under and/or accelerate some or all of such indebtedness which could have a material effect on us.Our hedging interest rate protection arrangements may not effectively limit our interest rate risk exposure.We manage our exposure to interest rate risk through a combination of interest rate protection agreements to effectively fix or cap a portion of our variable rate debt. Our use of interest rate hedging arrangements to manage risk associated with interest rate volatility may expose us to additional risks, including that a counterparty to a hedging arrangement may fail to honor its obligations. Developing an effective interest rate risk strategy is complex and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with interest rate fluctuations. There can be no assurance that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. We might be subject to additional costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs, if we terminate these arrangements. Some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance.We carry liability, fire, flood, earthquake, extended coverage, and rental loss insurance on each of our properties. We believe the policy specifications and insured limits of these policies are adequate and appropriate. There are, however, some types of losses, including lease and other contract claims, which generally are not insured. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. If this happens, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property.In November 2002, Congress passed the “Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002” (TRIA), which required insurance companies to offer terrorism coverage to all existing insured companies for an additional cost. As a result, our property insurance policies are currently provided without a sub-limit for terrorism, eliminating the need for separate terrorism insurance policies.In 2007, Congress extended the expiration date of TRIA by seven years to December 31, 2014. Congress is presently considering a reauthorization of TRIA, with possible changes. A final decision is expected in the second quarter of 2014. There are specific provisions in our loans that address terrorism insurance. Simply stated, in most loans, we are obligated to maintain terrorism insurance, but there are limits on the amounts we are required to spend to obtain such coverage. If a terrorist event occurs, the cost of terrorism insurance coverage would be likely to increase, which could result in our having less coverage than we have currently. Our inability to obtain such coverage or to do so only at greatly increased costs may also negatively impact the availability and cost of future financings. 15Table of ContentsWe may be subject to liabilities for environmental matters.All of the centers presently owned by us (not including option interests in certain pre-development projects) have been subject to environmental assessments. We are not aware of any environmental liability relating to the centers or any other property in which we have or had an interest (whether as an owner or operator) that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, or results of operations. No assurances can be given, however, that all environmental liabilities have been identified by us or that no prior owner or operator, or any occupant of our properties has created an environmental condition not known to us. Moreover, no assurances can be given that (1) future laws, ordinances, or regulations will not impose any material environmental liability or that (2) the current environmental condition of the centers will not be affected by tenants and occupants of the centers, by the condition of properties in the vicinity of the centers (such as the presence of underground storage tanks), or by third parties unrelated to us.We hold investments in joint ventures in which we do not control all decisions, and we may have conflicts of interest with our joint venture partners.Some of our shopping centers are partially owned by non-affiliated partners through joint venture arrangements. As a result, we do not control all decisions regarding those shopping centers and may be required to take actions that are in the interest of the joint venture partners but not our best interests. Accordingly, we may not be able to favorably resolve any issues that arise with respect to such decisions, or we may have to provide financial or other inducements to our joint venture partners to obtain such resolution.For joint ventures that we do not manage, we do not control decisions as to the design or operation of internal controls over accounting and financial reporting, including those relating to maintenance of accounting records, authorization of receipts and disbursements, selection and application of accounting policies, reviews of period-end financial reporting, and safeguarding of assets. Therefore, we are exposed to increased risk that such controls may not be designed or operating effectively, which could ultimately affect the accuracy of financial information related to these joint ventures as prepared by our joint venture partners.Various restrictive provisions and rights govern sales or transfers of interests in our joint ventures. These may work to our disadvantage because, among other things, we may be required to make decisions as to the purchase or sale of interests in our joint ventures at a time that is disadvantageous to us.The bankruptcy or financial difficulties of our joint venture partners could adversely affect us.The profitability of shopping centers held in a joint venture could also be adversely affected by the bankruptcy of one of the joint venture partners if, because of certain provisions of the bankruptcy laws, we were unable to make important decisions in a timely fashion or became subject to additional liabilities. In addition, if our joint venture partners are not able to fund required contributions, it may be necessary for us to contribute equity in excess of our ownership share to fund initial development, capital, and/or operating costs.We may not be able to maintain our status as a REIT.We may not be able to maintain our status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes with the result that the income distributed to shareowners would not be deductible in computing taxable income and instead would be subject to tax at regular corporate rates. We may also be subject to the alternative minimum tax if we fail to maintain our status as a REIT. Any such corporate tax liability would be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareowners which, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on the value of, or trading price for, our shares. Although we believe we are organized and operate in a manner to maintain our REIT qualification, many of the REIT requirements of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), are very complex and have limited judicial or administrative interpretations. Changes in tax laws or regulations or new administrative interpretations and court decisions may also affect our ability to maintain REIT status in the future. If we do not maintain our REIT status in any year, we may be unable to elect to be treated as a REIT for the next four taxable years.Although we currently intend to maintain our status as a REIT, future economic, market, legal, tax, or other considerations may cause us to determine that it would be in our and our shareowners’ best interests to revoke our REIT election. If we revoke our REIT election, we will not be able to elect REIT status for the next four taxable years. 16Table of ContentsWe may be subject to taxes even if we qualify as a REIT.Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we will be required to pay certain federal, state, local, and foreign taxes on our income and property. For example, we will be subject to federal income tax to the extent we distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, including capital gains. Moreover, if we have net income from “prohibited transactions,” that income will be subject to a 100% penalty tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. The determination as to whether a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale. We cannot guarantee that sales of our properties would not be prohibited transactions unless we comply with certain statutory safe-harbor provisions. The need to avoid prohibited transactions could cause us to forego or defer sales of assets that non-REITs otherwise would have sold or that might otherwise be in our best interest to sell.In addition, any net taxable income earned directly by our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be subject to federal, and state corporate income tax, and to the extent there are foreign operations certain foreign taxes. In this regard, several provisions of the laws applicable to REITs and their subsidiaries ensure that a taxable REIT subsidiary will be subject to an appropriate level of federal income taxation. For example, a taxable REIT subsidiary is limited in its ability to deduct certain interest payments made to an affiliated REIT. In addition, the REIT has to pay a 100% penalty tax on some payments that it receives or on some deductions taken by the taxable REIT subsidiaries if the economic arrangements among the REIT, the REIT’s tenants, and the taxable REIT subsidiary are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties. Finally, some state, local, and foreign jurisdictions may tax some of our income even though as a REIT we are not subject to federal income tax on that income, because not all states, localities, and foreign jurisdictions follow the federal income tax treatment of REITs. To the extent that we and our affiliates are required to pay federal, state, local, and foreign taxes, we will have less cash available for distributions to our shareowners.The lower tax rate on certain dividends from non-REIT “C” corporations may cause investors to prefer to hold stock in non-REIT “C” corporations.Beginning with the 2013 taxable year, the maximum tax rate (including the net investment income tax of 3.8%) on certain corporate dividends received by individuals is 23.8%, up from 15% in 2012, but less than the maximum income tax rate of 39.6% applicable to ordinary income. This rate differential continues to substantially reduce the so-called "double taxation" (that is, taxation at both the corporate and shareowner levels) that applies to non-REIT "C" corporations but does not generally apply to REITs. Dividends from a REIT do not qualify for the favorable tax rate applicable to dividends from non-REIT "C" corporations unless the dividends are attributable to income that has already been subjected to the corporate income tax, such as income from a prior year that the REIT did not distribute and dividend income received by the REIT from a taxable REIT subsidiary or other fully taxable "C" corporation. Although REITs, unlike non-REIT “C” corporations, have the ability to designate certain dividends as capital gain dividends subject to the favorable rates applicable to capital gain, the application of reduced dividend rates to non-REIT “C” corporation dividends may still cause individual investors to view stock in non-REIT “C” corporations as more attractive than shares in REITs, which may negatively affect the value of our shares. 17Table of ContentsOur ownership limitations and other provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws generally prohibit the acquisition of more than 8.23% of the value of our capital stock and may otherwise hinder any attempt to acquire us.Various provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of discouraging a third party from accumulating a large block of our stock and making offers to acquire us, and of inhibiting a change in control, all of which could adversely affect our shareowners’ ability to receive a premium for their shares in connection with such a transaction. In addition to customary anti-takeover provisions, as detailed below, our articles of incorporation contain REIT-specific restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our capital stock which also serve similar anti-takeover purposes.Under our Restated Articles of Incorporation, in general, no shareowner may own more than 8.23% (the “General Ownership Limit”) in value of our "Capital Stock" (which term refers to the common stock, preferred stock and Excess Stock, as defined below). Our Board of Directors has the authority to allow a “look through entity” to own up to 9.9% in value of the Capital Stock (Look Through Entity Limit), provided that after application of certain constructive ownership rules under the Code and rules regarding beneficial ownership under the Michigan Business Corporation Act, no individual would constructively or beneficially own more than the General Ownership Limit. A look through entity is an entity (other than a qualified trust under Section 401(a) of the Code, certain other tax-exempt entities described in the Articles, or an entity that owns 10% or more of the equity of any tenant from which we or TRG directly or indirectly receives or accrues rent from real property) whose beneficial owners, rather than the entity, would be treated as owning the capital stock owned by such entity.The Articles provide that if the transfer of any shares of Capital Stock or a change in our capital structure would cause any person (Purported Transferee) to own Capital Stock in excess of the General Ownership Limit or the Look Through Entity Limit, then the transfer is to be treated as invalid from the outset, and the shares in excess of the applicable ownership limit automatically acquire the status of “Excess Stock.” A Purported Transferee of Excess Stock acquires no rights to shares of Excess Stock. Rather, all rights associated with the ownership of those shares (with the exception of the right to be reimbursed for the original purchase price of those shares) immediately vest in one or more charitable organizations designated from time to time by our Board of Directors (each, a “Designated Charity”). An agent designated from time to time by the Board (each, a “Designated Agent”) will act as attorney-in-fact for the Designated Charity to vote the shares of Excess Stock, take delivery of the certificates evidencing the shares that have become Excess Stock, and receive any distributions paid to the Purported Transferee with respect to those shares. The Designated Agent will sell the Excess Stock, and any increase in value of the Excess Stock between the date it became Excess Stock and the date of sale will inure to the benefit of the Designated Charity. A Purported Transferee must notify us of any transfer resulting in shares converting into Excess Stock, as well as such other information regarding such person’s ownership of the capital stock we request.These ownership limitations will not be automatically removed even if the REIT requirements are changed so as to no longer contain any ownership concentration limitation or if the concentration limitation is increased because, in addition to preserving our status as a REIT, the effect of such ownership limit is to prevent any person from acquiring unilateral control of us. Changes in the ownership limits cannot be made by our Board of Directors and would require an amendment to our articles. Currently, amendments to our articles require the affirmative vote of holders owning not less than two-thirds of the outstanding capital stock entitled to vote.A. Alfred Taubman, Robert Taubman, William Taubman, and Gayle Taubman Kalisman (Taubman Family) may be deemed under SEC rules of attribution, which includes conversion of options that have vested and shares subject to issuance under an option deferral agrement, to beneficially own 26%, 29%, 28%, and 26%, respectively, of our stock that is entitled to vote on shareowner matters (Voting Stock) as of December 31, 2013. However, the combined Taubman Family ownership of Voting Stock includes 24,127,588 shares of the 25,151,069 shares of Series B Preferred Stock outstanding or 96% of the total outstanding and 1,349,925 shares of the 63,101,614 shares of common stock outstanding or 2% of the total outstanding as of December 31, 2013. The Series B Preferred Stock is convertible into shares of common stock at a ratio of 14,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock to one share of common stock, and therefore one share of Series B Preferred Stock has a value of 1/14,000ths of the value of one share of common stock. Accordingly, the foregoing ownership of Voting Stock does not violate the ownership limitations set forth in our charter. 18Table of ContentsMembers of the Taubman family have the power to vote a significant number of the shares of our capital stock entitled to vote.Based on information contained in filings made with the SEC, as of December 31, 2013, A. Alfred Taubman and the members of his family have the power to vote approximately 29% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and our Series B Preferred Stock, considered together as a single class, and approximately 96% of our outstanding Series B preferred stock. Our shares of common stock and our Series B Preferred Stock vote together as a single class on all matters generally submitted to a vote of our shareowners, and the holders of the Series B preferred stock have certain rights to nominate up to four individuals for election to our board of directors and other class voting rights. Mr. Taubman’s son, Robert S. Taubman, serves as our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Taubman’s son, William S. Taubman, serves as our Chief Operating Officer and one of our directors. These individuals occupy the same positions with the Manager. As a result, Mr. A. Alfred Taubman and the members of his family may exercise significant influence with respect to the election of our board of directors, the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our shareowners for approval, including any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, because our articles of incorporation impose a limitation on the ownership of our outstanding capital stock by any person and such ownership limitation may not be changed without the affirmative vote of holders owning not less than two-thirds of the outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote on such matter, Mr. A. Alfred Taubman and the members of his family, as a practical matter, have the power to prevent a change in control of our company.The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, including: •general market and economic conditions; •actual or anticipated variations in our operating results, funds from operations, cash flows, liquidity or distributions; •changes in our earnings estimates or those of analysts; •publication of research reports about us, the real estate industry generally or the regional mall industry, and recommendations by financial analysts with respect to us or other REITs; •the amount of our outstanding debt at any time, the amount of our maturing debt in the near and medium term and our ability to refinance such debt and the terms thereof or our plans to incur additional debt in the future; •the ability of our tenants to pay rent to us and meet their other obligations to us under current lease terms and our ability to re-lease space as leases expire; •increases in market interest rates that lead purchasers of our common stock to demand a higher dividend yield; •changes in market valuations of similar companies; •any securities we may issue or additional debt we incur in the future;•additions or departures of key management personnel; •actions by institutional shareholders; •risks we are taking in relation to our new developments and capital uses;•perceived risks in connection with our international development strategy;•speculation in the press or investment community; and•continuing high levels of volatility in the capital and credit markets.Many of the factors listed above are beyond our control. These factors may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, regardless of our financial performance and condition and prospects. It is impossible to provide any assurance that the market price of our common stock will not fall in the future, and it may be difficult for holders to resell shares of our common stock at prices they find attractive, or at all. 19Table of ContentsOur shareholders will experience dilution as a result of equity offerings and they may experience further dilution if we issue additional common stock. We issued common equity, both common shares and TRG partnership units, that had a dilutive effect on our earnings per diluted share and funds from operations per diluted share for the years ended December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011. Also during 2013 and 2012, we issued additional shares of preferred stock which adversely affected the earnings per share available to our common shareholders. We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. Any additional future issuances of common stock will reduce the percentage of our common stock owned by investors who do not participate in future issuances. In most circumstances, shareholders will not be entitled to vote on whether or not we issue additional common stock. In addition, depending on the terms and pricing of an additional offering of our common stock and the value of our properties, our shareholders may experience dilution in both the book value and fair value of their shares. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market after this offering or the perception that such sales could occur, and this could materially and adversely affect our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. Our ability to pay dividends on our stock may be limited.Because we conduct all of our operations through TRG or its subsidiaries, our ability to pay dividends on our stock will depend almost entirely on payments and distributions received on our interests in TRG. Additionally, the terms of some of the debt to which TRG is a party limits its ability to make some types of payments and other distributions to us. This in turn limits our ability to make some types of payments, including payment of dividends on our stock, unless we meet certain financial tests or such payments or dividends are required to maintain our qualification as a REIT. As a result, if we are unable to meet the applicable financial tests, we may not be able to pay dividends on our stock in one or more periods beyond what is required for REIT purposes.Our ability to pay dividends is further limited by the requirements of Michigan law.Our ability to pay dividends on our stock is further limited by the laws of Michigan. Under the Michigan Business Corporation Act, a Michigan corporation may not make a distribution if, after giving effect to the distribution, the corporation would not be able to pay its debts as the debts become due in the usual course of business, or the corporation’s total assets would be less than the sum of its total liabilities plus the amount that would be needed, if the corporation were dissolved at the time of the distribution, to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of shareowners whose preferential rights are superior to those receiving the distribution. Accordingly, we may not make a distribution on our stock if, after giving effect to the distribution, we would not be able to pay our debts as they become due in the usual course of business or our total assets would be less than the sum of our total liabilities plus the amount that would be needed to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of the holders of any shares of our preferred stock then outstanding.We may incur additional indebtedness, which may harm our financial position and cash flow and potentially impact our ability to pay dividends on our stock.Our governing documents do not limit us from incurring additional indebtedness and other liabilities; however, certain loan covenants include certain restrictions regarding future indebtedness. As of December 31, 2013, we had $3.1 billion of consolidated indebtedness outstanding, and our beneficial interest in both our consolidated debt and the debt of our unconsolidated joint ventures was $3.8 billion. We may incur additional indebtedness and become more highly leveraged, which could harm our financial position and potentially limit our cash available to pay dividends. We may change the distribution policy for our common stock in the future. The decision to declare and pay dividends on our common stock in the future, as well as the timing, amount, and composition of any such future dividends, will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, funds from operations, liquidity, financial condition, capital requirements, contractual prohibitions, or other limitations under our indebtedness and preferred shares, the annual dividend requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code, state law and such other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. Further, we have regularly issued new shares of common stock as compensation to our employees, and we have periodically issued new shares pursuant to public offerings or acquisitions. Any future issuances may substantially increase the cash required to pay dividends at current or higher levels. Our actual dividend payable will be determined by our board of directors based upon the circumstances at the time of declaration. Although we have regularly paid dividends on a quarterly basis on our common and preferred stock in the past, we do not guarantee we will continue to do so in the future. Any change in our dividend policy could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 20Table of ContentsItem 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.None.