Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. The economic performance and value of our shopping centers are dependent on many factors. The economic performance and value of our shopping centers are dependent on various factors. Additionally, these same factors will influence our decision whether to go forward on the development of new centers and may affect the ultimate economic performance and value of projects under construction. Adverse changes in the economic performance and value of our shopping centers would adversely affect our income and cash available to pay dividends. Such factors include: · changes in the national, regional, and/or local economic and geopolitical climates. While the economic environment and credit availability improved in 2010, current high unemployment and uncertainty as to whether this is a sustainable recovery may adversely impact our anchors, tenants and prospective customers of our shopping centers; · changes in mall tenant sales performance of our centers, which over the long term, are the single most important determinant of revenues of the shopping centers because mall tenants provide approximately 90% of these revenues and because mall tenant sales determine the amount of rent, percentage rent, and recoverable expenses that mall tenants can afford to pay; · availability and cost of financing, which may significantly reduce our ability to obtain financing or refinance existing debt at current amounts, interest rates, and other terms or may affect our ability to finance improvements to a property; · decreases in other operating income, including sponsorship, garage and other income; · increases in operating costs; · the public perception of the safety of customers at our shopping centers; · legal liabilities; · changes in government regulations; and · changes in real estate zoning and tax laws. These factors may ultimately impact the valuation of certain long-lived or intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing, potentially resulting in impairment charges, which may be material to our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the value and performance of our shopping centers may be adversely affected by certain other factors discussed below including the global economic condition, the state of the capital markets, unscheduled closings or bankruptcies of our tenants, competition, uninsured losses, and environmental liabilities. The recent global economic and financial market downturn has had and may continue to have a negative effect on our business and operations. The recent global economic and financial market downturn caused, among other things, a significant tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, lower consumer and business spending, and lower consumer confidence and net worth, all of which has had a negative effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Many of our tenants have been affected by these negative economic conditions and, although we have seen some improvement, these conditions may continue to strain the resources of our tenants and their customers. 10 Table of Contents Capital markets have experienced and may continue to experience a period of disruption and instability, which caused and may continue to have a negative impact on the availability and cost of capital. The recent general disruption in the U.S. capital markets impacted the broader worldwide financial and credit markets and reduced the availability of capital for the market as a whole. Although the capital markets now appear to be recovering, the capital markets continue to be more conservative in investment decisions and practices than they were before the recent financial market downturn. Regulations put in place in response to the disruption to the markets may further restrict the availability and/or increase the cost of capital. Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access those markets. This could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. A lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to obtain and manage our liquidity. In addition, the cost of debt financing and the proceeds may be materially adversely impacted by such market conditions. Credit market developments may reduce availability under our credit agreements. Further disruption in the credit markets, similar to what we experienced recently, could create risk that lenders, even those with strong balance sheets and sound lending practices, could fail or refuse to honor their legal commitments and obligations under existing credit commitments, including but not limited to extending credit up to the maximum permitted by a credit facility and/or honoring loan commitments. Twelve banks participate in our $550 million secured line of credit and the failure of one bank to fund a draw on our line does not negate the obligation of the other banks to fund their pro-rata shares. However, if one or more of our lenders fail to honor their legal commitments under our credit facilities, it could be difficult to replace such lenders and/or our credit facilities on similar terms. Although we believe that our operating cash flow, access to capital markets, two unencumbered center properties and existing credit facilities give us the ability to satisfy our liquidity needs, the failure of one or more of the lenders under our credit facilities may impact our ability to finance our operating or investing activities. We are in a competitive business. There are numerous shopping facilities that compete with our properties in attracting retailers to lease space. In addition, retailers at our properties face continued competition from discount shopping centers, lifestyle centers, outlet malls, wholesale and discount shopping clubs, direct mail, telemarketing, television shopping networks and shopping via the Internet. Competition of this type could adversely affect our revenues and cash available for distribution to shareowners. We compete with other major real estate investors with significant capital for attractive investment opportunities. These competitors include other REITs, investment banking firms and private institutional investors. This competition may impair our ability to make suitable property acquisitions on favorable terms in the future. The bankruptcy or early termination of our tenants and anchors could adversely affect us. We could be adversely affected by the bankruptcy or early termination of tenants and anchors. The bankruptcy of a mall tenant could result in the termination of its lease, which would lower the amount of cash generated by that mall. In addition, if a department store operating as an anchor at one of our shopping centers were to go into bankruptcy and cease operating, we may experience difficulty and delay in replacing the anchor. In addition, the anchor’s closing may lead to reduced customer traffic and lower mall tenant sales. As a result, we may also experience difficulty or delay in leasing spaces in areas adjacent to the vacant anchor space. The early termination of mall tenants or anchors for reasons other than bankruptcy could have a similar impact on the operations of our centers, although in such cases we may benefit in the short-term from lease cancellation income. (See “MD&A – Rental Rates and Occupancy”). The bankruptcy of our joint venture partners could adversely affect us. The profitability of shopping centers held in a joint venture could also be adversely affected by the bankruptcy of one of the joint venture partners if, because of certain provisions of the bankruptcy laws, we were unable to make important decisions in a timely fashion or became subject to additional liabilities. 11 Table of Contents Our investments are subject to credit and market risk. We occasionally extend credit to third parties in connection with the sale of land or other transactions. We also have occasionally made investments in marketable and other equity securities. We are exposed to risk in the event the values of our investments and/or our loans decrease due to overall market conditions, business failure, and/or other nonperformance by the investees or counterparties. Our real estate investments are relatively illiquid. We may be limited in our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic, market, or other conditions by restrictions on transfer imposed by our partners or lenders. In addition, under TRG’s partnership agreement, upon the sale of a center or TRG’s interest in a center, TRG may be required to distribute to its partners all of the cash proceeds received by TRG from such sale. If TRG made such a distribution, the sale proceeds would not be available to finance TRG’s activities, and the sale of a center may result in a decrease in funds generated by continuing operations and in distributions to TRG’s partners, including us. Further, pursuant to TRG’s partnership agreement, TRG may not dispose or encumber certain of its centers or its interest in such centers without the consent of a majority-in-interest of its partners other than us. We may acquire or develop new properties (including outlet properties), and these activities are subject to various risks. We actively pursue development and acquisition activities as opportunities arise, and these activities are subject to the following risks: · the pre-construction phase for a new project often extends over several years, and the time to obtain anchor and tenant commitments, zoning and regulatory approvals, and public financing can vary significantly from project to project; · we may not be able to obtain the necessary zoning or other governmental approvals for a project, or we may determine that the expected return on a project is not sufficient; if we abandon our development activities with respect to a particular project, we may incur a loss on our investment; · construction and other project costs may exceed our original estimates because of increases in material and labor costs, delays and costs to obtain anchor and tenant commitments; · we may not be able to obtain financing or to refinance construction loans, which are generally recourse to TRG; and · occupancy rates and rents, as well as occupancy costs and expenses, at a completed project may not meet our projections, and the costs of development activities that we explore but ultimately abandon will, to some extent, diminish the overall return on our completed development projects. In addition, adverse impacts of the global economic and market downturn may reduce viable development and acquisition opportunities that meet our unlevered return requirements. 12 Table of Contents Our business activities and pursuit of new opportunities in Asia may pose risks. We have offices in Hong Kong and Seoul, South Korea and we are pursuing and evaluating management, leasing and development service and investment opportunities in various Asian markets. In addition, we are currently providing development and leasing services for a retail project in Seoul which is under construction. These activities are subject to risks that may reduce our financial return. In addition to the general risks related to development and acquisition activities described in the preceding section, our international activities are subject to unique risks, including: · adverse effects of changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies; · changes in foreign political environments; · difficulties of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws including laws affecting corporate governance, operations, anti-corruption, taxes, and litigation; · changes in and/or difficulties in complying with applicable laws and regulations in the United States that affect foreign operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; · difficulties in managing international operations, including difficulties that arise from ambiguities in contracts written in foreign languages; and · obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash. Although our international activities are currently limited in their scope, to the extent that we expand them, these risks could increase in significance and adversely affect our financial returns on international projects and services and overall financial condition. We have put in place policies, practices, and systems for mitigating some of these international risks, although we cannot provide assurance that we will be entirely successful in doing so. Some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance. We carry liability, fire, flood, earthquake, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on each of our properties. We believe the policy specifications and insured limits of these policies are adequate and appropriate. There are, however, some types of losses, including lease and other contract claims, which generally are not insured. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. If this happens, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. In November 2002, Congress passed the “Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002” (TRIA), which required insurance companies to offer terrorism coverage to all existing insured companies for an additional cost. As a result, our property insurance policies are currently provided without a sub-limit for terrorism, eliminating the need for separate terrorism insurance policies. In 2007, Congress extended the expiration date of TRIA by seven years to December 31, 2014. There are specific provisions in our loans that address terrorism insurance. Simply stated, in most loans, we are obligated to maintain terrorism insurance, but there are limits on the amounts we are required to spend to obtain such coverage. If a terrorist event occurs, the cost of terrorism insurance coverage would be likely to increase, which could result in our having less coverage than we have currently. Our inability to obtain such coverage or to do so only at greatly increased costs may also negatively impact the availability and cost of future financings. We may be subject to liabilities for environmental matters. All of the centers presently owned by us (not including option interests in certain pre-development projects) have been subject to environmental assessments. We are not aware of any environmental liability relating to the centers or any other property in which we have or had an interest (whether as an owner or operator) that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, or results of operations. No assurances can be given, however, that all environmental liabilities have been identified by us or that no prior owner or operator, or any occupant of our properties has created an environmental condition not known to us. Moreover, no assurances can be given that (1) future laws, ordinances, or regulations will not impose any material environmental liability or that (2) the current environmental condition of the centers will not be affected by tenants and occupants of the centers, by the condition of properties in the vicinity of the centers (such as the presence of underground storage tanks), or by third parties unrelated to us. 13 Table of Contents We hold investments in joint ventures in which we do not control all decisions, and we may have conflicts of interest with our joint venture partners. Some of our shopping centers are partially owned by non-affiliated partners through joint venture arrangements. As a result, we do not control all decisions regarding those shopping centers and may be required to take actions that are in the interest of the joint venture partners but not our best interests. Accordingly, we may not be able to favorably resolve any issues that arise with respect to such decisions, or we may have to provide financial or other inducements to our joint venture partners to obtain such resolution. For joint ventures that we do not manage, we do not control decisions as to the design or operation of internal controls over accounting and financial reporting, including those relating to maintenance of accounting records, authorization of receipts and disbursements, selection and application of accounting policies, reviews of period-end financial reporting, and safeguarding of assets. Therefore, we are exposed to increased risk that such controls may not be designed or operating effectively, which could ultimately affect the accuracy of financial information related to these joint ventures as prepared by our joint venture partners. Various restrictive provisions and rights govern sales or transfers of interests in our joint ventures. These may work to our disadvantage because, among other things, we may be required to make decisions as to the purchase or sale of interests in our joint ventures at a time that is disadvantageous to us. We may not be able to maintain our status as a REIT. We may not be able to maintain our status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes with the result that the income distributed to shareowners would not be deductible in computing taxable income and instead would be subject to tax at regular corporate rates. We may also be subject to the alternative minimum tax if we fail to maintain our status as a REIT. Any such corporate tax liability would be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareowners which, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on the value of, or trading price for, our shares. Although we believe we are organized and operate in a manner to maintain our REIT qualification, many of the REIT requirements of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), are very complex and have limited judicial or administrative interpretations. Changes in tax laws or regulations or new administrative interpretations and court decisions may also affect our ability to maintain REIT status in the future. If we do not maintain our REIT status in any year, we may be unable to elect to be treated as a REIT for the next four taxable years. Although we currently intend to maintain our status as a REIT, future economic, market, legal, tax, or other considerations may cause us to determine that it would be in our and our shareowners’ best interests to revoke our REIT election. If we revoke our REIT election, we will not be able to elect REIT status for the next four taxable years. 14 Table of Contents We may be subject to taxes even if we qualify as a REIT. Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we will be required to pay certain federal, state, local and foreign taxes on our income and property. For example, we will be subject to income tax to the extent we distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, including capital gains. Moreover, if we have net income from “prohibited transactions,” that income will be subject to a 100% penalty tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. The determination as to whether a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale. We cannot guarantee that sales of our properties would not be prohibited transactions unless we comply with certain statutory safe-harbor provisions. The need to avoid prohibited transactions could cause us to forego or defer sales of assets that non-REITs otherwise would have sold or that might otherwise be in our best interest to sell. In addition, any net taxable income earned directly by our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be subject to federal, and state corporate income tax, and to the extent there are foreign operations certain foreign taxes. In this regard, several provisions of the laws applicable to REITs and their subsidiaries ensure that a taxable REIT subsidiary will be subject to an appropriate level of federal income taxation. For example, a taxable REIT subsidiary is limited in its ability to deduct certain interest payments made to an affiliated REIT. In addition, the REIT has to pay a 100% penalty tax on some payments that it receives or on some deductions taken by the taxable REIT subsidiaries if the economic arrangements between the REIT, the REIT’s tenants, and the taxable REIT subsidiary are not comparable to similar arrangements between unrelated parties. Finally, some state and local jurisdictions may tax some of our income even though as a REIT we are not subject to federal income tax on that income, because not all states and localities follow the federal income tax treatment of REITs. To the extent that we and our affiliates are required to pay federal, state and local taxes, we will have less cash available for distributions to our shareowners. The lower tax rate on certain dividends from non-REIT “C” corporations may cause investors to prefer to hold stock in non-REIT “C” corporations. Whereas corporate dividends have traditionally been taxed at ordinary income rates, the maximum tax rate on certain corporate dividends received by individuals through December 31, 2012, has been reduced from 35% to 15%. This change has reduced substantially the so-called “double taxation” (that is, taxation at both the corporate and shareowner levels) that had generally applied to non-REIT “C” corporations but did not apply to REITs. Generally, dividends from REITs do not qualify for the dividend tax reduction because REITs generally do not pay corporate-level tax on income that they distribute currently to shareowners. REIT dividends are eligible for the lower dividend rates only in the limited circumstances in which the dividends are attributable to income that has already been subject to corporate tax, such as income from a prior taxable year that the REIT did not distribute and dividend income received by the REIT from a taxable REIT subsidiary or other fully-taxable C corporation. Although REITs, unlike non-REIT “C” corporations, have the ability to designate certain dividends as capital gain dividends subject to the favorable rates applicable to capital gain, the application of reduced dividend rates to non-REIT “C” corporation dividends may still cause individual investors to view stock in non-REIT “C” corporations as more attractive than shares in REITs, which may negatively affect the value of our shares. 15 Table of Contents Our ownership limitations and other provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws generally prohibit the acquisition of more than 8.23% of the value of our capital stock and may otherwise hinder any attempt to acquire us. Various provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of discouraging a third party from accumulating a large block of our stock and making offers to acquire us, and of inhibiting a change in control, all of which could adversely affect our shareowners’ ability to receive a premium for their shares in connection with such a transaction. In addition to customary anti-takeover provisions, as detailed below, our articles of incorporation contain REIT-specific restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our capital stock which also serve similar anti-takeover purposes. Under our Restated Articles of Incorporation, in general, no shareowner may own more than 8.23% (the “General Ownership Limit”) in value of our "Capital Stock" (which term refers to the common stock, preferred stock and Excess Stock, as defined below). Our Board of Directors has the authority to allow a “look through entity” to own up to 9.9% in value of the Capital Stock (Look Through Entity Limit), provided that after application of certain constructive ownership rules under the Internal Revenue Code and rules regarding beneficial ownership under the Michigan Business Corporation Act, no individual would constructively or beneficially own more than the General Ownership Limit. A look through entity is an entity (other than a qualified trust under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, certain other tax-exempt entities described in the Articles, or an entity that owns 10% or more of the equity of any tenant from which we or TRG receives or accrues rent from real property) whose beneficial owners, rather than the entity, would be treated as owning the capital stock owned by such entity. The Articles provide that if the transfer of any shares of Capital Stock or a change in our capital structure would cause any person (Purported Transferee) to own Capital Stock in excess of the General Ownership Limit or the Look Through Entity Limit, then the transfer is to be treated as invalid from the outset, and the shares in excess of the applicable ownership limit automatically acquire the status of “Excess Stock.” A Purported Transferee of Excess Stock acquires no rights to shares of Excess Stock. Rather, all rights associated with the ownership of those shares (with the exception of the right to be reimbursed for the original purchase price of those shares) immediately vest in one or more charitable organizations designated from time to time by our Board of Directors (each, a “Designated Charity”). An agent designated from time to time by the Board (each, a “Designated Agent”) will act as attorney-in-fact for the Designated Charity to vote the shares of Excess Stock, take delivery of the certificates evidencing the shares that have become Excess Stock, and receive any distributions paid to the Purported Transferee with respect to those shares. The Designated Agent will sell the Excess Stock, and any increase in value of the Excess Stock between the date it became Excess Stock and the date of sale will inure to the benefit of the Designated Charity. A Purported Transferee must notify us of any transfer resulting in shares converting into Excess Stock, as well as such other information regarding such person’s ownership of the capital stock we request. These ownership limitations will not be automatically removed even if the REIT requirements are changed so as to no longer contain any ownership concentration limitation or if the concentration limitation is increased because, in addition to preserving our status as a REIT, the effect of such ownership limit is to prevent any person from acquiring unilateral control of us. Changes in the ownership limits cannot be made by our Board of Directors and would require an amendment to our articles. Currently, amendments to our articles require the affirmative vote of holders owning not less than two-thirds of the outstanding capital stock entitled to vote. Although Mr. A. Alfred Taubman beneficially owns 28% of our stock, which is entitled to vote on shareowner matters (Voting Stock), most of his Voting Stock consists of Series B Preferred Stock. The Series B Preferred Stock is convertible into shares of common stock at a ratio of 14,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock to one share of common stock, and therefore one share of Series B Preferred Stock has a value of 1/14,000ths of the value of one share of common stock. Accordingly, Mr. A. Alfred Taubman’s significant ownership of Voting Stock does not violate the ownership limitations set forth in our charter. 16 Table of Contents Members of the Taubman family have the power to vote a significant number of the shares of our capital stock entitled to vote. Based on information contained in filings made with the SEC, as of December 31, 2010, A. Alfred Taubman and the members of his family have the power to vote approximately 31% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and our Series B preferred stock, considered together as a single class, and approximately 92% of our outstanding Series B preferred stock. Our shares of common stock and our Series B preferred stock vote together as a single class on all matters generally submitted to a vote of our shareowners, and the holders of the Series B preferred stock have certain rights to nominate up to four individuals for election to our board of directors and other class voting rights. Mr. Taubman’s son, Robert S. Taubman, serves as our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Taubman’s son, William S. Taubman, serves as our Chief Operating Officer and one of our directors. These individuals occupy the same positions with the Manager. As a result, Mr. A. Alfred Taubman and the members of his family may exercise significant influence with respect to the election of our board of directors, the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our shareowners for approval, including any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, because our articles of incorporation impose a limitation on the ownership of our outstanding capital stock by any person and such ownership limitation may not be changed without the affirmative vote of holders owning not less than two-thirds of the outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote on such matter, Mr. A. Alfred Taubman and the members of his family, as a practical matter, have the power to prevent a change in control of our company. Our ability to pay dividends on our stock may be limited. Because we conduct all of our operations through TRG or its subsidiaries, our ability to pay dividends on our stock will depend almost entirely on payments and dividends received on our interests in TRG. Additionally, the terms of some of the debt to which TRG is a party limits its ability to make some types of payments and other dividends to us. This in turn limits our ability to make some types of payments, including payment of dividends on our stock, unless we meet certain financial tests or such payments or dividends are required to maintain our qualification as a REIT. As a result, if we are unable to meet the applicable financial tests, we may not be able to pay dividends on our stock in one or more periods beyond what is required for REIT purposes. Our ability to pay dividends is further limited by the requirements of Michigan law. Our ability to pay dividends on our stock is further limited by the laws of Michigan. Under the Michigan Business Corporation Act, a Michigan corporation may not make a distribution if, after giving effect to the distribution, the corporation would not be able to pay its debts as the debts become due in the usual course of business, or the corporation’s total assets would be less than the sum of its total liabilities plus the amount that would be needed, if the corporation were dissolved at the time of the distribution, to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of shareowners whose preferential rights are superior to those receiving the distribution. Accordingly, we may not make a distribution on our stock if, after giving effect to the distribution, we would not be able to pay our debts as they become due in the usual course of business or our total assets would be less than the sum of our total liabilities plus the amount that would be needed to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of the holders of any shares of our preferred stock then outstanding. We may incur additional indebtedness, which may harm our financial position and cash flow and potentially impact our ability to pay dividends on our stock. Our governing documents do not limit us from incurring additional indebtedness and other liabilities. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $2.7 billion of consolidated indebtedness outstanding, and our beneficial interest in both our consolidated debt and the debt of our unconsolidated joint ventures was $2.9 billion. We may incur additional indebtedness and become more highly leveraged, which could harm our financial position and potentially limit our cash available to pay dividends. We cannot assure that we will be able to pay dividends regularly, although we have done so in the past. Our ability to pay dividends in the future is dependent on our ability to operate profitably and to generate cash from our operations. Although we have done so in the past, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to pay dividends on a regular quarterly basis or at the same level in the future. In addition, we may choose to pay a portion in stock dividends. Furthermore, any new shares of common stock issued will increase the cash required to continue to pay cash dividends at current levels. Any common stock or preferred stock that may in the future be issued to finance acquisitions, upon exercise of stock options or otherwise, would have a similar effect. 17 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 