Risk Factors If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer significantly. We have a history of losses and are uncertain as to our future profitability. We recorded an operating loss of $31.0 million, excluding the one-time gain on sale of assets of $3.3 million, for the year ended December 31, 2012 and ended the period with an accumulated deficit of $93.0 million. We recorded an operating loss of $24.3 million, excluding the one-time gain on sale of patents of $35.6 million, for the year ended December 31, 2011 and ended the period with an accumulated deficit of $65.4 million. In addition, we recorded an operating loss of $23.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. We expect to continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future as we secure customers for and invest in the commercialization of our IC products. Due to the strong commitment of our resources to research and development and expansion of our offerings to customers, we will need to increase revenues substantially beyond levels that we have attained in the past in order to generate sustainable operating profit. Given our history of fluctuating revenues and operating losses, the expected reduction in royalty and licensing revenues and challenges we face in securing customers for our IC products, we cannot be certain that we will be able to achieve profitability on either a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our success depends upon the semiconductor market's acceptance of our Bandwidth Engine ICs. The future prospects of our business depend on the adoption and acceptance by our target markets of our Bandwidth Engine ICs. In 2011, we began focusing our engineering, marketing and sales efforts on our IC products and de-emphasizing our technology licensing activities, which historically have been our primary revenue source. Our primary focus is on obtaining design wins, or winning competitive bids, in which customers select our IC products to design into their systems. Our prospective customers may be unwilling to adopt and design-in our ICs due to the uncertainties and risks surrounding designing a new IC into their systems and relying on a supplier that has almost no history of manufacturing such ICs. In addition, our Bandwidth Engine IC products require our customers and their other IC suppliers to implement our new and proprietary chip-to-chip communication protocol, GCI, which they may be unwilling to do. We have determined and negotiated prices with a few customers for our ICs and have gained only limited experience with the cost of making and selling these products. Thus, currently we do not know whether we will be able to profitably make and sell these products. We are investing significant resources to develop our next generation IC products, but may not introduce these new products successfully or obtain significant revenue from them. 15 Table of Contents An important part of our strategy to gain market acceptance is to penetrate new markets by targeting market leaders to accept our IC solutions. This strategy is designed to encourage other participants in those markets to follow these leaders in adopting our solutions. If a high-profile industry participant adopts our ICs for one or more of its products but fails to achieve success with those products, or is unable to successfully implement our ICs, other industry participants' perception of our solutions could be harmed. Any such event could reduce the amount of future sales of our IC products. We utilize a limited number of suppliers to manufacture our integrated circuits, and, if any of these suppliers fail to support future versions of our technology, it will be difficult for us to develop and introduce new products and our business may not grow. We are a fabless semiconductor company and use a limited number of suppliers to manufacture our integrated circuits, and certain of these suppliers, such as our foundry, TSMC, are sole sources. We are dependent upon supply from TSMC and other suppliers to produce our integrated circuits. Furthermore, we are dependent on TSMC to support the production of wafers for future versions of our integrated circuits, and such production may require changes to TSMC's existing process technology. If TSMC elects to not alter their process technology to support future versions of our integrated circuits, we would need to identify a new foundry. Even if TSMC alters its production processes to produce wafers for future versions of our integrated circuits, we may experience lower than anticipated manufacturing yields and device reliability problems due to the introduction of changes in production processes. Our inability to obtain supply for our existing and future integrated circuit products or to obtain the support of third party foundries for the development and manufacture of our products at smaller process geometries could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our strategic product development objectives and limit our prospects for future growth. In addition, we do not have long-term supply contracts with TSMC or any of our other manufacturing suppliers, and, therefore, such suppliers are not obligated to manufacture products for us or meet our supply requirements. In addition, such suppliers are under no obligation to meet our future design specifications, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. If we are unable to obtain an adequate supply of our current or future products from our suppliers or find alternative sources in a timely manner, we will be unable to fulfill our customer orders and our operating results will be harmed. Because the manufacturing of integrated circuits is extremely complex, the process of qualifying a new foundry and/or other suppliers is a lengthy process and there can be no assurance that we will be able to find and qualify replacement suppliers without materially adversely affecting our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects for future growth. We may not achieve the anticipated benefits of becoming a fabless semiconductor company by developing and bringing to market the Bandwidth Engine IC product line. In 2010, we expanded our business model to become a fabless semiconductor company through the development of a product line of ICs called the Bandwidth Engine. Our goal is to increase our total available market by creating high-performance ICs for networking systems, using our proprietary technology and design expertise. This development effort has required that we add significant headcount and design resources, such as expensive software tools, which has increased our losses from and cash used in operations. We may not be successful in our development efforts to bring Bandwidth Engine ICs to market successfully nor be successful in selling ICs due to various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to: •customer acceptance; •adoption of the GCI protocol; 16 Table of Contents •difficulties and delays in our development, production, testing and marketing activities; •the anticipated costs and technological risks of developing and bringing ICs to market; •the willingness of our manufacturing partners to assist successfully with fabrication; •the availability of quantities of ICs supplied by our manufacturing partners at a competitive cost; •our ability to generate the desired gross margin percentages and return on our product development investment; •competition from established IC suppliers; •the adequacy of our intellectual property protection for our proprietary IC designs and technologies; •the vigor and growth of markets served by our current and prospective customers; and •our lack of recent experience as a fabless semiconductor company making and selling proprietary ICs. If we experience significant delays in bringing our IC products to market or if customer adoption of our products is delayed, we may need to raise additional capital to support the product development efforts and fund our working capital needs. Our main objective is the development and sale of our products to networking and communications systems providers and their subsystem and component vendors, and, if demand for these products does not grow, we may not achieve revenue growth and our strategic objectives. We market and sell our ICs to networking and communications systems providers and their subsystem and component vendors. We believe our future business and financial success depends on market acceptance and increasing sales of these products. In order to meet our growth and strategic objectives, networking infrastructure OEMs must incorporate our products into their systems, and the demand for their systems must grow as well. We cannot provide assurance that sales of products will increase substantially in the future or that the demand for our customers' systems will increase. Our future revenues from these products may not increase in accordance with our growth and strategic objectives if instead our OEM customers modify their product designs, select products sold by our competitors or develop their own proprietary ICs. Thus, the future success of this part of our business depends in large part on factors outside our control, and sales of our products may not meet our revenue growth and strategic objectives. The Bandwidth Engine ICs have a lengthy sales cycle, which makes it difficult to predict success in this market and the timing of future revenue. Bandwidth Engine ICs have a lengthy sales cycle, ranging from six to 24 months from the date of our initial proposal to a prospective customer until the date on which the customer confirms that it has designed our product into its system. As lengthy, or an even lengthier period, could ensue before we would know the volume of products that such customer will, or is likely to, order. A number of factors can contribute to the length of the sales cycle, including technical evaluations of our products by the customers, the design process required to integrate our products into the customers' products and the timing of the customers' new product announcements. In anticipation of product orders, we may incur substantial costs before the sales cycle is complete and before we receive any customer payments. As a result, in the event that a sale is not completed or is cancelled or delayed, we may have incurred substantial expenses, making it more difficult for us to become profitable or otherwise negatively impacting our financial results. Furthermore, because of this lengthy sales cycle, the recording of revenue from our selling efforts may be substantially delayed, our ability to forecast our future revenue 17 Table of Contents may be more limited and our revenue may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. We cannot provide any assurances that our efforts to build a strong and profitable business based on the Bandwidth Engine ICs will succeed. If these efforts are not successful, in light of the substantial resources that we have invested, our future operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We expect our licensing and royalty revenues to decrease compared with our historical results, and we do not expect revenues from our IC products to replace these lost revenues in the near future. In 2011, we began to place greater emphasis on our IC business and re-deploy engineering, marketing and sales resources from IP to IC activities. We are no longer actively pursuing new license arrangements, and, as a result, our license and royalty revenues in 2012 declined when compared with prior years. We do not expect to generate sufficient revenues from our IC products to approximate the level of our historical IP revenues and allow us to achieve profitability in 2013. As a result, our operating results, cash flows and financial condition for 2013 are likely to be adversely affected. The semiconductor industry is cyclical in nature and subject to periodic downturns, which can negatively affect our revenue. The semiconductor industry is cyclical and has experienced pronounced downturns for sustained periods of up to several years. To respond to any downturn, many semiconductor manufacturers and their customers will slow their research and development activities, cancel or delay new product developments, reduce their workforces and inventories and take a cautious approach to acquiring new equipment and technologies. As a result, our business has been in the past and could be adversely affected in the future by an industry downturn, which could negatively impact our future revenue and profitability. Also, the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from year-to-year, which may tend to increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. Royalties generated from the licensing of our memory technologies are currently a key component of revenues, and, if we fail to realize expected royalties, our operating results will suffer. We are relying on the receipt of future royalties to provide working capital to partially fund our investment in our IC product line. Royalty payments owed to us are calculated based on factors such as our licensees' selling prices, wafer production and other variables as provided in each license agreement. The amount of royalties we will receive depends on our licensees' business success, production volumes and other factors beyond our control. This exposes our business model to risks that we cannot minimize directly and may result in significant fluctuations in our royalty revenue and operating results from quarter-to-quarter. We do not expect to enter into any new memory technology licensing activities, therefore the number of royalty-bearing agreements will not increase and contribute to our royalty stream. In addition, the production volumes of the current royalty-bearing products shipped by our licensees are expected to decrease; therefore we do not expect our royalty revenue to grow in future periods. If we are unable to generate as much royalty revenue in the future as we believe will be necessary to partially fund our investment in our IC product line, we may need to raise capital from other sources. Our revenue has been highly concentrated among a small number of licensees and customers, and our results of operations could be harmed if we lose a key revenue source and fail to replace it. Our overall revenue has been highly concentrated, with a few customers accounting for a significant percentage of our total revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2012, our three largest customers represented 28%, 26%, and 12% of total revenue, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2011, our three largest customers represented 23%, 17% and 12% of total revenue 18 Table of Contents respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our three largest customers represented 23%, 18% and 15% of total revenue, respectively. We expect that a relatively small number of licensees will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Our royalty revenue also has been highly concentrated among a few licensees, and we expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future. In particular, a substantial portion of our licensing and royalty revenue in 2012, 2011 and 2010 has come from the license fees and royalties for integrated circuits supplied by one integrated device manufacturer, or IDM, for Nintendo® gaming devices that incorporate our 1T-SRAM technology. Royalties earned for the sale of Nintendo gaming devices from this customer represented 11%, 16% and 22% of total revenue in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In 2012, Nintendo introduced a new gaming system, which does not incorporate our technology, which will cause a reduction in royalties we receive related to the existing gaming devices. As a result of this revenue concentration, our results of operations could be impaired by the decision of a single key licensee or customer to cease using our technology or products or by a decline in the number of products that incorporate our technology that are sold by a single licensee or customer or by a small group of licensees or customers. Our revenue concentration may also pose credit risks, which could negatively affect our cash flow and financial condition. We might also face credit risks associated with the concentration of our revenue among a small number of licensees and customers. As of December 31, 2012, three customers represented 100% of total trade receivables. Our failure to collect receivables from any customer that represents a large percentage of receivables on a timely basis, or at all, could adversely affect our cash flow or results of operations and might cause our stock price to fall. Our failure to continue to enhance our products on a timely basis could diminish our ability to attract and retain customers. The existing and potential markets for our products are characterized by ever-increasing performance requirements, evolving industry standards, rapid technological change and product obsolescence. These characteristics lead to frequent new product introductions and enhancements, shorter product life cycles and changes in industry demands. In order to attain and maintain a significant position in the market, we will need to continue to enhance and evolve our products and the underlying proprietary technologies in anticipation of these market trends. Our future performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: •identify target markets and relevant emerging technological trends; •develop and maintain competitive technology by improving performance and adding innovative features that differentiate our products from alternative technologies; •enable the incorporation of our products into the customers' products on a timely basis and at competitive prices; •develop our products to be manufactured at smaller process geometries; and •respond effectively to new technological developments or new product introductions by others. We plan to continually introduce enhancements to our products to meet market requirements. However, we cannot be assured that these introductions will achieve market acceptance or that we will be able to sell the products on terms that are favorable to us. Our failure to develop future products that achieve market acceptance could harm our competitive position and impede our future growth. 19 Table of Contents Our products must meet exact specifications, and defects and failures may occur, which may cause customers to return or stop buying our products. Our customers generally establish demanding specifications for quality, performance and reliability that our products must meet. However, our products are highly complex and may contain defects and failures when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. If defects and failures occur in our products during the design phase or after, we could experience lost revenues, increased costs, including warranty expense and costs associated with customer support, delays in or cancellations or rescheduling of orders or shipments, product returns or discounts, diversion of management resources or damage to our reputation and brand equity, and in some cases consequential damages, any of which would harm our operating results. In addition, delays in our ability to fill product orders as a result of quality control issues may negatively impact our relationship with our customers. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to satisfy any asserted claims. Furthermore, any such defects, failures or delays may be particularly damaging to us as we attempt to establish our reputation as a reliable provider of IC products. Because we sell our products on a purchase order basis and rely on estimated forecasts of our customers' needs, inaccurate forecasts could adversely affect our business. We expect to sell our IC products pursuant to individual purchase orders, rather than long-term purchase commitments. Therefore, we will rely on estimated demand forecasts, based upon input from our customers, to determine how much product to manufacture. Because our sales will be based primarily on purchase orders, our customers may cancel, delay or otherwise modify their purchase commitments with little or no notice to us. For these reasons, we will generally have limited visibility regarding our customers' product needs. In addition, the product design cycle for networking OEMs is lengthy, and it may be difficult for us to accurately anticipate when they will commence commercial shipments of products that include our ICs. Furthermore, if we experience substantial warranty claims, our customers may cancel existing orders or cease to place future orders. Any cancellation, delay or other modification in our customers' orders could significantly reduce our revenue, cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period and make it more difficult for us to predict our revenue. In the event of a cancellation or reduction of an order, we may not have enough time to reduce operating expenses to mitigate the effect of the lost revenue on our business. If we overestimate customer demand for our products, we may purchase products from manufacturers that we cannot sell. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if sufficient manufacturing capacity were unavailable, we would forego revenue opportunities and could lose market share in the markets served by our products. In addition, our inability to meet customer requirements for our products could lead to delays in product shipments, force customers to identify alternative sources and otherwise adversely affect our ongoing relationships with our customers. We will depend on contract manufacturers for a significant portion of our revenue from the sale of our Bandwidth Engine products. Many of our prospective OEM customers use third party contract manufacturers to manufacture their systems, and these contract manufacturers would purchase our products directly from us on behalf of the OEMs. Although we expect to work with our OEM customers in the design and development phases of their systems, these OEMs often give contract manufacturers some authority in product purchasing decisions. If we cannot compete effectively for the business of these contract manufacturers, or, if any of the contract manufacturers that work with our OEM customers experience financial or other difficulties in their businesses, our revenue and our business could be adversely affected. For example, if a contract manufacturer becomes subject to bankruptcy proceedings, we may not be able to obtain our products held by the contract manufacturer or recover payments owed to us by the contract manufacturer for products already delivered to the contract manufacturer. If we are unable to persuade 20 Table of Contents contract manufacturers to purchase our products, or if the contract manufacturers are unable to deliver systems with our products to OEMs on a timely basis, our business would be adversely affected. We rely on independent foundries and contractors for the manufacture, assembly, testing and packaging of our integrated circuits, and the failure of any of these third parties to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested could damage our relationships with our customers and harm our sales and financial results. As a fabless semiconductor company, we rely on third parties for all of our manufacturing operations. We depend on these parties to supply us with material in a timely manner that meets our standards for yield, cost and quality. We do not have long-term supply contracts with any of our suppliers or manufacturing service providers, and therefore they are not obligated to manufacture products for us for any specific period, in any specific quantity or at any specified price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. Any problems with our manufacturing supply chain could adversely impact our ability to ship our products to our customers on time and in the quantity required, which in turn could damage our customer relationships and impede market acceptance of our IC solutions. Our costs may increase substantially if the wafer foundries and assembly and test vendors that supply and test our products do not achieve satisfactory product yields, reliability or quality. The wafer fabrication process requires extreme precision, and the slightest changes in the design, specifications or materials can result in material decreases in manufacturing yields or even the suspension of production. From time to time, we and our wafer foundries may experience manufacturing defects and reduced manufacturing yields related to errors or problems in our wafer foundries' manufacturing processes or the interrelationship of their processes with our designs. In some cases, our wafer foundries may not be able to detect these defects early in the fabrication process or determine the cause of such defects in a timely manner, which may affect the quality or reliability of our products. We may incur substantial research and development expense for prototype or development stage products as we qualify the products for production. Our third party wafer foundries, testing and assembly vendors and sales offices are located in regions at high risk for earthquakes and other natural disasters. Any disruption to the operations of these foundries, vendors and offices resulting from earthquakes or other natural disasters could cause significant delays in the development, production, shipment and sales of our IC products. TSMC, which manufactures our products, is located in Asia, as are other foundries we may use in the future. EAG, which handles the testing of our products, is headquartered in California. Our primary engineering design center is located in Santa Clara, California, and we have sales offices in Japan and China. The risk of an earthquake in the Pacific Rim region is significant due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines. In September 1999, a major earthquake in Taiwan affected the facilities of several major foundries and other vendors. As a result of this earthquake, these vendors suffered power outages and disruptions that impaired their production capacity. In March 2002 and September 2003, additional earthquakes occurred in Taiwan. The occurrence of additional earthquakes or other natural disasters could result in the disruption of the wafer foundry or assembly and test capacity of the third parties that supply these services to us and may impede our research and development efforts, as well as our ability to market and sell our products. We may not be able to obtain alternate capacity on favorable terms, if at all. 21 Table of Contents Any claim that our products or technology infringe third party intellectual property rights could increase our costs of operation and distract management and could result in expensive settlement costs or the discontinuance of our technology licensing or product offerings. In addition, we may incur substantial litigation expense, which would adversely affect our profitability. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions, which has resulted in often protracted and expensive litigation. We are not aware of any third party intellectual property that our products or technology would infringe. However, like many companies of our size with limited resources, we have not searched for all potentially applicable intellectual property in the public databases. It is possible that a third party now has, or may in the future obtain, patents or other intellectual property rights that our products or technology may now, or in the future, infringe. Our licensees and IC customers, or we, might, from time to time, receive notice of claims that we have infringed patents or other intellectual property rights of others. Litigation against us can result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not the litigation has merit or results in a determination adverse to us. Royalty amounts owed to us might be difficult to verify, and we might find it difficult, expensive and time-consuming to enforce our license agreements. The standard terms of our 1T-SRAM license agreements require our licensees to document the manufacture and sale of products that incorporate our technology and generally report this data to us after the end of each quarter. We have the right to audit these royalty reports periodically. These audits can be expensive, time-consuming and potentially detrimental to our business relationships. A failure to fully enforce the royalty provisions of our license agreements could cause our revenue to decrease and impede our ability to achieve and maintain profitability. We might not be able to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, which could impair our ability to compete and reduce the value of our technology. Our technology is complex and is intended for use in complex SoCs and networking systems. Our licensees' products utilize our embedded memory and/or I/O technology, and a large number of companies manufacture and market these products. Because of these factors, policing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and expensive. We cannot be certain that we will be able to detect unauthorized use of our technology or prevent other parties from designing and marketing unauthorized products based on our technology. In the event we identify any past or present infringement of our patents, copyrights or trademarks, or any violation of our trade secrets, confidentiality procedures or licensing agreements, we cannot assure you that the steps taken by us to protect our proprietary information will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology. Our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property would reduce significantly the barriers of entry for directly competing technologies and could reduce the value of our technology. Furthermore, we might initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Litigation by us could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation results in a determination favorable to us. Our existing patents might not provide us with sufficient protection of our intellectual property, and our patent applications might not result in the issuance of patents, either of which could reduce the value of our core technology and harm our business. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws and confidentiality procedures to protect our intellectual property rights. As of December 31, 2012, we held approximately 70 patents in the United States, and approximately 35 corresponding foreign patents, which expire at 22 Table of Contents various times from 2013 to 2031. In addition, as of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 80 patent applications pending worldwide. We cannot be sure that any patents will issue from any of our pending applications or that any claims allowed from pending applications will be of sufficient scope or strength, or issued in all countries where our products can be sold, to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. In December 2011, we sold 43 United States and 30 related foreign patents, which reduced the size of our patent portfolio and diminishes our ability to assert counterclaims in the defense of actions against us that may arise. Also, competitors might be able to design around our patents. Failure of our patents or patent applications to provide meaningful protection might allow others to utilize our technology without any compensation to us. The discovery of defects in our technology and products could expose us to liability for damages. The discovery of a defect in our technologies and products could lead our customers to seek damages from us. Many of our license agreements include provisions waiving implied warranties regarding our technology and limiting our liability to our licensees. We cannot be certain, however, that the waivers or limitations of liability contained in our license contracts will be enforceable. If we fail to retain key personnel, our business and growth could be negatively affected. Our business has been dependent to a significant degree upon the services of a small number of executive officers and technical employees. The loss of any key personnel could negatively impact our technology development efforts, our ability to successfully transition our business model from IP licensing to IC sales, our ability to deliver under our existing agreements, maintain strategic relationships with our partners, and obtain new customers. We generally have not entered into employment or non-competition agreements with any of our employees and do not maintain key-man life insurance on the lives of any of our key personnel. Our failure to successfully address the potential difficulties associated with our international operations could increase our costs of operation and negatively impact our revenue. We are subject to many difficulties posed by doing business internationally, including: •foreign currency exchange fluctuations; •unanticipated changes in local regulation; •potentially adverse tax consequences, such as withholding taxes; •political and economic instability; and •reduced or limited protection of our intellectual property. Because we anticipate that integrated circuit sales to companies that operate primarily outside the United States may account for a substantial portion of our revenue in future periods, the occurrence of any of these circumstances could significantly increase our costs of operation, delay the timing of our revenue and harm our profitability. Any acquisitions we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. In the future, we may consider opportunities to acquire other businesses or technologies that would complement our current offerings, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our technical capabilities. Acquisitions that we may do in the future will present a number of potential challenges that could, if not overcome, disrupt our business operations, substantially increase our operating 23 Table of Contents expenses, negatively affect our operating results and cash flows and reduce the value to us of the acquired company or assets purchased, including: •uncertainty related to future revenues; •increased operating expenses and cost structure; •integration of the acquired employees, operations, technologies and products with our existing business and products; •focusing management's time and attention on our core business; •retention of business relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired business; •entering markets in which we lack prior experience; •retention of key employees of the acquired business; •difficulties and delays in the further development, production, testing and marketing of the acquired technologies; and •amortization of intangible assets, write-offs, stock-based compensation and other charges relating to the acquired business and our acquisition costs. Our failure to raise additional capital or generate the significant capital necessary to expand our operations and invest in new products could reduce our ability to compete and could harm our business. We intend to continue spending substantial amounts to grow our business. In December 2011, we sold 43 United States patents and 30 related foreign patents in exchange for $35 million in cash. In December 2010, we completed an equity offering and issued approximately 5,000,000 shares of our common stock for approximately $20 million in net proceeds. Although we believe that we have access to capital sufficient to satisfy our working capital requirements for the foreseeable future, we believe that we need to obtain additional financing to pursue our business strategy, develop new products, respond to competition and market opportunities and acquire complementary businesses or technologies. We may not be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms or at all. If we were to raise additional capital through sales of our equity securities, our stockholders would suffer dilution of their equity ownership. If we engage in a subsequent debt financing, we may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, prohibit us from paying dividends, repurchasing our stock or making investments, and force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios, any of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, we may not be able to, among other things: •develop or enhance our products; •continue to expand our product development and sales and marketing organizations; •acquire complementary technologies, products or businesses; •expand operations, in the United States or internationally; •hire, train and retain employees; or •respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated working capital requirements. Our failure to do any of these things could seriously harm our ability to execute our business strategy and may force us to curtail our research and development plans or existing operations. 24 Table of Contents Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws or Delaware law might delay or prevent a change of control transaction and depress the market price of our stock. Various provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws might have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of our company. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Certain of these provisions eliminate cumulative voting in the election of directors, limit the right of stockholders to call special meetings and establish specific procedures for director nominations by stockholders and the submission of other proposals for consideration at stockholder meetings. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law which could delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. In particular, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years unless specific conditions are met. Any of these provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, including without limitation, discouraging a proxy contest or making more difficult the acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock. Under our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors may issue up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval on such terms as the board might determine. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and might be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that might be issued in the future. Our stockholder rights plan could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price for their shares from a potential acquirer. We adopted a stockholder rights plan that generally entitles our stockholders to rights to acquire additional shares of our common stock when a third party acquires 15% of our common stock or commences or announces its intent to commence a tender offer for at least 15% of our common stock, other than for one group of related stockholders, as to whom this threshold is 20%. The plan also includes an exception to permit the acquisition of shares representing more than 15% of our common stock by a brokerage firm that manages independent customer accounts and generally does not have any discretionary voting power with respect to such shares. This plan could delay, deter or prevent an investor from acquiring us in a transaction that could otherwise result in stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their shares of common stock. Our intention is to maintain and enforce the terms of this plan, which could delay, deter or prevent an investor from acquiring us in a transaction that could otherwise result in stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their shares of common stock. Potential volatility of the price of our common stock could negatively affect your investment. We cannot assure you that there will continue to be an active trading market for our common stock. Historically, the stock market, as well as our common stock, has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Market prices of securities of technology companies have been highly volatile and frequently reach levels that bear no relationship to the operating performance of such companies. These market prices generally are not sustainable and are subject to wide variations. If our common stock trades to unsustainably high levels, it is likely that the market price of our common stock will thereafter experience a material decline. In the past, our board of directors approved stock repurchase programs, and any future program could impact the price of our common stock and increase volatility. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We could be the target of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert management's attention and resources, harm our reputation in the industry and the securities markets and negatively impact our operating results. 25 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 