ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. The following information sets forth risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements we have made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and those we may make from time to time. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operation, prospects or financial condition could be harmed. These are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also affect our business operations, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of operating losses and we anticipate that we will incur substantial expenses in connection with our commercial launch of Revestive in countries outside of the United States, our pre-launch initiatives for Natpara, the build-out of our infrastructure and core competencies to support our continued growth as a global organization, and the further development of our product candidates and potential in-licensing or product acquistions. If we do not generate significant revenues from the sale of Gattex/Revestive, we will not be able to achieve and then maintain profitability. With the exception of 1996, we have not been profitable since our inception in 1986. As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $1.0 billion. To date, our revenue has been primarily from royalty payments from our collaborators on sales of Sensipar and Mimpara (cinacalcet HCl), Preotact (rhPTH[1-84]), REGPARA and Nucynta, sales of Gattex which was launched in the United States in February of 2013, and milestone revenue under our collaborative agreements. As described further herein, we have non-recourse debt that is secured by our royalty rights related to sales of Sensipar and Mimpara under our agreement with Amgen. In addition, we have sold to DRI our rights to receive royalty payments under our agreements with Kyowa Hakko Kirin for REGPARA. The right to receive the full royalty on Amgen's Sensipar and Mimpara sales will only be achieved if those royalties are sufficient to repay the royalty advance and a 9 percent per annum discount on the balance of the advance. The right to royalties on Kyowa Hakko Kirin's REGPARA sales will only be returned to us if the amount of royalties received by DRI exceeds two and a half times the amounts paid to us by DRI. We received no royalties from sales of Preotact (rhPTH[1-84]) by Takeda in 2013, and in March 2013, Takeda's rights to rhPTH[1-84] were returned to us and we are now developing as Natpara in the United States for the treatment of hypoparathyroidism. Our ability to achieve profitability in the future depends on the successful commercialization and further development of Gattex/Revestive and Natpara. We expect to incur significant expenditures in connection with the commercialization of Revestive outside of the United States, the commercial launch of Natpara in the United States, if it receives regulatory approval, and the further development and effort to seek regulatory approval for Natpara outside of the United States. If sales revenue from Gattex/Revestive is insufficient, we may never achieve profitability. Even if we do become profitable, we may not be able to sustain or increase our profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Pursuant to the Company's license agreement with Amgen, so long as a patent infringement proceeding by a third party against Amgen continues for the manufacture, use or sale of a compound under the agreement in any country, Amgen may reserve up to 50% of the royalties otherwise payable by Amgen with respect to the affected compound in the country in question until the proceedings are concluded. If the third party's patent is finally determined to be uninfringed, unenforceable or invalid, Amgen is required to promptly pay the reserved royalties to us. If the third party's patent is held to be valid and infringed or if Amgen enters into a settlement of such infringement claim, then Amgen may deduct any damages or settlement amount with respect to such claim from the reserved royalties prior to payment of any remaining amount. In the event any damages and/or settlement amounts exceed the amount of reserved royalties, Amgen could withhold such excess from its future royalty obligations in that country. If Amgen reserves or reduces the royalties paid on Sensipar sales as a result of a third party claim, our ability to repay the non-recourse Sensipar Notes on a timely basis could be adversely affected. In addition, if any such claim is successful or if Amgen settles the claim, the right to receive future royalty payments on the sales of Sensipar may never be returned to us. We may require additional funds. Historically, we have not been a self-sustaining business and certain economic, operational and strategic factors may require us to secure additional funds. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funding at any time in the future, we may not be able to develop or commercialize our products, take advantage of business opportunities, including in-licensing or acquisition opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures. 26 Our current and anticipated operations require substantial capital. We expect that our existing cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments and anticipated cash flow will sufficiently fund our current and planned operations through at least January 1, 2015. However, our future capital needs will depend on many factors, including the extent to which we are able to grow sales of Gattex, generate sales of Revestive, receive royalty and milestone payments from our collaborators, make progress in our development and commercialization activities and find and execute on our business development initiatives to build our pipeline. Our capital requirements will also depend on the magnitude and scope of these activities and our expansion as a global company, our ability to maintain existing collaborations, the success of our collaborators in developing and marketing products under their respective collaborations with us, the success of our contract manufacturers in producing commercial and clinical supplies of our products, drug delivery devices and product candidates on a timely basis and in sufficient quantities to meet our requirements, competing technological and market developments, the time and cost of obtaining regulatory approvals, the cost of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent and other rights and our success in acquiring and integrating complementary products, technologies or companies. We do not have committed external sources of funding, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional funds on acceptable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to: engage in equity financings that would be dilutive to current stockholders; delay or reduce the scope of our efforts to commercialize Gattex/Revestive; delay or reduce the scope of our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals of Natpara and Revestive outside the U.S and EU and, if and when such regulatory approvals are obtained, delay or reduce the scope of our efforts to commercialize Natpara or Revestive; delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our development programs and/or business development initiatives, including potential in-licensing or acquisition opportunities; obtain funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to technologies, product candidates or products that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves; or license rights to technologies, product candidates or products on terms that are less favorable to us than might otherwise be available. In addition, the capital and credit markets have experienced extreme volatility and historical disruptions have led to uncertainty and liquidity issues for both companies seeking equity or debt refinancing and investors and lenders. In the future, we may not be able to obtain capital market financing on favorable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We have limited marketing and sales experience and our ability to successfully commercialize Gattex/Revestive and other products is important to our future success. We are commercializing Gattex/Revestive ourselves in the United States and in certain countries outside the United States. Towards that end we have developed a small internal sales force that will call upon targeted physicians and have executed distribution agreements with five of the leading home infusion companies in the United States and plan to build a small internal sales force in select countries outside the United Sates. Prior to 2013, we had no prior experience commercializing a pharmaceutical product and we may be unable to continue to successfully commercialize Gattex/Revestive or to commercialize Natpara if and when it obtains regulatory approval. Gattex and Natpara have each been designated an "orphan drug" in the United States by the FDA, Revestive and Natpara has been designated an "orphan drug" in the European Union by the European Commission and we may seek additional "orphan drug" or similar designations for our products in the future. Accordingly, the number of patients who could benefit from treatment with Gattex/Revestive and Natpara is small. We will need to penetrate a significant portion of this potential patient population in order to successfully commercialize Gattex/Revestive and if and when it obtains regulatory approval, Natpara. If we are unable to successfully commercialize Gattex/Revestive, our business and financial results and condition will be adversely affected. If the market opportunities for any products we develop are smaller than we believe they are, then our revenues may be adversely affected and our business may suffer. Each of the diseases that Gattex/Revestive has been developed to address, and that Natpara and our other product candidates are being developed to address, is relatively rare. Our projections of both the number of people who have these diseases, as well as the subset of people with these diseases who have the potential to benefit from treatment with Gattex/Revestive, Natpara and our other product candidates, are based on estimates. 27 Currently, most reported estimates of the prevalence of these diseases are based on studies of small numbers or small subsets of the population of specific geographic areas, which are then extrapolated to estimate the prevalence of the diseases in the broader world population. If our estimates of the prevalence of short bowel syndrome or hypoparathyroidism, or of the number of patients who may benefit from treatment with Gattex/Revestive, Natpara and our other product candidates prove to be incorrect, the market opportunities for Gattex/Revestive, Natpara and our product candidates may be smaller than we believe they are and our prospects for generating revenue may be adversely affected and our business may suffer. Adverse safety events involving Gattex/Revestive or Natpara or our other product candidates can negatively affect our business and stock price. Adverse safety events involving Gattex/Revestive or Natpara or any of our other product candidates which may receive marketing approval in the future may have a negative impact on our commercialization efforts. Later discovery of safety issues with Gattex/Revestive, Natpara or our other product candidates that were not known at the time of their approval by the FDA or comparable regulatory agencies in other countries could cause product liability events, additional regulatory scrutiny and requirements for additional labeling, withdrawal of products from the market and the imposition of fines or criminal penalties. Any of these actions could result in material write-offs of inventory, material impairments of intangible assets, goodwill and fixed assets, material restructuring charges and other adverse impacts on our results of operations. In addition, the reporting of adverse safety events involving our products and public rumors about such events could cause our stock price to decline or experience periods of volatility. If we do not receive regulatory approval to market our product candidates in a timely manner, or at all, or if we obtain regulatory approval to market those product candidates but the approved label is not competitive with then existing competitive products, our business will be materially harmed and our stock price may be adversely affected. Our future success is dependent on our ability to successfully develop additional product candidates. We are developing Natpara as a potential treatment for hypoparathyroidism and have one other product candidate in early stages of clinical development. In November 2011, we reported positive top-line results from our Phase 3 registration study of Natpara, known as REPLACE, as the first hormone replacement therapy for hypoparathyroidism. Based on the REPLACE results, we filed our BLA for U.S. marketing approval of Natpara in October 2013 and were advised by the FDA in January 2014 that it has accepted and filed our BLA for review. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA), the goal date for a decision by the FDA is October 24, 2014. There may be delays in the FDA review process. The FDA is not bound by, and has in the past missed, its PDUFA goals, and it is unknown whether the review of our BLA filing for Natpara, or for any of our other drug candidates, will be completed within the FDA review goals or will be delayed. For more information on the development of our product candidates, see "Item 1 - Business - Product and Development Programs and Royalty-Based Agreements." The regulatory review and approval process conducted by the FDA and comparable regulatory agencies in foreign countries is extensive, lengthy, expensive and inherently uncertain. To receive approval for a product candidate, we must, among other things, demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA and comparable regulatory agencies in foreign countries with substantial evidence from well-controlled pre-clinical and clinical trials that the product candidate is both safe and effective for each indication for which approval is sought. We cannot predict if or when we might receive regulatory approvals for any of our product candidates currently under development. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval from the FDA and comparable regulatory agencies in foreign countries, any approvals that we obtain could contain significant limitations in the form of narrow indications, warnings, precautions or contra-indications with respect to conditions of use, or the requirement that we implement a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy. In such an event, our ability to generate revenues from such products could be greatly reduced and our business could be harmed. 28 The FDA and comparable regulatory agencies in foreign countries have substantial discretion in the approval process and may either refuse to consider any applications we may file with respect to Natpara or any of our other product candidates for substantive review or may form the opinion after review of our data for Natpara or any of our other product candidates that our application is insufficient to allow approval of Natpara or our other product candidates. Even if we believe that data collected from our preclinical studies and clinical trials of our product candidates are promising, our data may not be sufficient to support marketing approval by the FDA and comparable regulatory agencies in foreign countries, or regulatory interpretation of these data and procedures may be unfavorable. If the FDA and comparable regulatory agencies in foreign countries do not accept or approve an application that we submit, they may require that we conduct additional clinical, pre- clinical or manufacturing validation studies and submit that data before they will reconsider our application. Depending on the extent of these or any other studies, approval of any applications that we submit may be delayed by several years, or may require us to expend more resources than we have available. It is also possible that additional studies, if performed and completed, may not be successful or considered sufficient for approval or even to make our applications approvable. If any of these outcomes occur, we may be forced to abandon one or more of our future applications for approval, which might significantly harm our business and prospects. As a result, we cannot predict when or whether regulatory approval will be obtained for any product candidate we develop. Obtaining approval of a NDA or other submission by the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority is inherently uncertain. Even after completing clinical trials and other studies, our product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval for many reasons, including the following: we may not be able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities that our product candidates are safe and effective for any indication; the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with the design or implementation of our clinical trials or other studies; the results of our clinical trials or other studies may not demonstrate that a product candidate's clinical and other benefits outweigh its safety risks; the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with our interpretation of data from clinical trials or other studies; the data collected from clinical trials and other studies of our product candidates may not be sufficient to support the submission of an NDA or BLA or other submission or to obtain regulatory approval in the United States or elsewhere; the approval policies or regulations of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may significantly change in a manner rendering our clinical and other study data insufficient for approval; and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may not approve the proposed manufacturing processes and facilities for a product candidate. If we are ultimately unable to obtain regulatory approval to commercialize our product candidates in a timely manner, or at all, or if the approved indication, side effect and adverse events profile, and product distribution requirements are not competitive with existing competitor products or therapies: Our ability to generate revenues to sustain our operations will be substantially impaired, which would increase the likelihood that we would need to obtain additional financing for our other development efforts; Our reputation among investors might be harmed, which might make it more difficult for us to obtain equity capital on attractive terms or at all; and Our profitability would be delayed, our business will be materially harmed and our stock price may be adversely affected. Biotechnology stock prices, including our stock price, have declined significantly in certain instances where companies have failed to meet expectations with respect to FDA approval or the timing for FDA approval. 29 We may never develop any more commercial drugs or other products that generate revenues. To date, royalties on sales of Sensipar (Mimpara in Europe), REGPARA in Japan, Preotact and Nucynta, and our sales of Gattex have been our only sources of commercial revenues. Our product candidates under development will require significant additional development, clinical trials, regulatory approvals and additional investment before their commercialization. Our product development efforts may not lead to commercial drugs for a number of reasons, including our inability to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective in clinical trials or a lack of financial or other resources to pursue the programs through the clinical trial process. Even if we are able to successfully develop one or more of our product candidates, our ability to generate sales of any such products will depend on many factors, including the extent to which such product is accepted by the medical community. We cannot assure you that acceptance of Gattex/Revestive in the medical community will increase or continue or that Natpara or any other product candidate we may be able to develop will find acceptance in the medical community. Our dependence on contract research organizations could result in delays in and additional costs for our drug development efforts. We rely almost entirely on contract research organizations, or CROs, to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials for drug candidates that we choose to develop without a collaborator. If the CROs that we hire to perform our preclinical testing and clinical trials or our collaborators or licensees do not meet deadlines, do not follow proper procedures, or a conflict arises between us and our CROs, our preclinical testing and clinical trials may take longer than expected, may be delayed or may be terminated. If we were forced to find a replacement CRO to perform any of our preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may not be able to find a suitable replacement on favorable terms, if at all. Even if we were able to find another CRO to perform a preclinical test or clinical trial, any material delay in a test or clinical trial may result in significant additional expenditures that could adversely affect our operating results. Events such as these may also delay regulatory approval for our drug candidates or our ability to commercialize our products. In addition, we may enter into agreements with collaborators or licensees to advance certain of our drug candidates through the later- stage, more expensive clinical trials, rather than invest our own resources to conduct these clinical trials. Depending on the terms of our agreements with these collaborators or licensees, we may have little or no control over the manner in which these clinical trials are conducted, and would be subject to other risks that are similar to those associated with our reliance on CROs, as described above. We depend exclusively on third parties, including a number of sole suppliers, for the manufacture, supply, testing, and storage of Gattex/Revestive, Natpara, our other product candidates and our drug delivery devices; if these third parties fail to supply us with sufficient quantities of products and devices on a timely basis, or if the products and devices they provide do not meet our specifications, our product sales may be reduced and our clinical trials and product introductions may be delayed or suspended We do not have the internal manufacturing capabilities to produce the supplies of Gattex/Revestive that are needed to support the commercialization of this product or the supplies of Natpara that are needed to support the commercial launch of this product candidate, if it is approved. We also do not have internal manufacturing capabilities to produce supplies of the injection devices used to administer Gattex/Revestive and Natpara. We are dependent on third parties for the manufacture, supply, testing, and storage of our products, product candidates and injection devices. If we are unable to contract for a sufficient supply of our products, product candidates or injection devices on acceptable terms, or if we encounter delays or difficulties in the manufacturing or supply process we may not have sufficient product or injection devices to support the commercial launch of our products which may receive marketing approval or conduct or complete clinical trials of our product candidates. We depend on a number of contract manufacturers to supply key components of Gattex/Revestive and Natpara. For a description of our agreements with these manufacturers, see "Item 1. - Business - Manufacturing." The process for manufacturing biological products is complex and no assurances can be provided that our manufacturers will be able to produce the required quantities in a timely manner or at all. We have experienced certain instances where our contract manufacturers have produced product and injection devices that have not met our required specifications and could not be used in clinical trials or for commercialization. Any extended disruption or termination of our relationship with any of our contract manufacturers could materially harm our business and financial condition and adversely affect our stock price. 30 Due to a technical production issue, during parts of 2012 and 2013 we were unable to have batches of Natpara finished product manufactured that were consistently within our specifications. These manufacturing problems caused a delay in the filing of our BLA for Natpara. Although we were able to resolve this manufacturing issue and submit our BLA for Natpara in October 2013, we cannot assure you that we will not encounter manufacturing problems with respect to Natpara or any of our products or product candidates in the future. Dependence on contract manufacturers for commercial production involves a number of additional risks, many of which are outside our control. These additional risks include: • there may be delays as manufacturers scale-up to quantities needed for clinical trials and the commercial launch of our product candidates; manufacturers may be unable to manufacture such quantities to our specifications, or to deliver such quantities on the dates we require; • our current and future manufacturers are subject to ongoing, periodic, unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and international regulatory authorities for compliance with strictly enforced cGMP regulations and similar foreign standards, and we are unable to ensure their compliance with these regulations and standards; • our current and future manufacturers may not be able to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, which would prohibit them from manufacturing products or drug delivery devices for us; • if we need to change to other commercial manufacturing contractors, the FDA and comparable foreign regulators must first approve these contractors, which would require new testing and compliance inspections, and the new manufacturers would have to be educated in, or themselves develop substantially equivalent processes necessary for, the production of our products and drug delivery devices; • our manufacturers might not be able to fulfill our commercial needs, which would require us to seek new manufacturing arrangements that could result in substantial delays and higher costs; and • we may not have intellectual property rights, or may have to share intellectual property rights, to any improvements in the manufacturing processes or new manufacturing processes for our products or drug delivery devices. Any of these factors could cause us to delay or suspend commercialization of our approved products or the clinical trials, regulatory submission or required approvals of our products candidates under development, entail higher costs and result in our inability to commercialize our products effectively. We are subject to extensive government regulations that may cause us to cancel or delay the introduction of our products to market or which could have a material negative impact on our ability to sell our products. Our business is subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the U.S. and other countries. Prior to marketing in the United States, a drug must undergo rigorous testing and an extensive regulatory approval process implemented by the FDA under federal law, including the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. To receive approval, we or our collaborators must demonstrate, among other things, with substantial evidence from well-controlled clinical trials that the product is both safe and effective for each indication where approval is sought. Depending upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product and the nature of the disease or disorder to be treated, the approval process can take several years and require substantial expenditures. Data obtained from testing are susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals of our products. Drug testing is subject to complex FDA rules and regulations, including the requirement to conduct human testing on a large number of test subjects. We, our collaborators, or the FDA may suspend human trials at any time if a party believes that the test subjects are exposed to unacceptable health risks. We cannot assure you that any of our product candidates will be safe for human use. Other countries also have extensive requirements regarding clinical trials, market authorization and pricing. These regulatory requirements vary widely from country to country, but, in general, are subject to all of the risks associated with U.S. approvals. 31 With respect to any of our products that may receive regulatory approval, the approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is safe and effective, as demonstrated through clinical trials and as defined by the regulatory agency. In addition, results of preclinical studies and clinical trials with respect to our products could subject us to adverse product labeling requirements that could harm the sale of such products. Even if regulatory approval is obtained, later discovery of previously unknown problems may result in restrictions of the product, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Further, governmental approval may subject us to ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies. Even if we obtain governmental approval, a marketed product, its respective manufacturer and its manufacturing facilities are subject to unannounced inspections by the FDA and must comply with the FDA's cGMP and other regulations. These regulations govern all areas of production, record keeping, personnel and quality control. If a manufacturer fails to comply with any of the manufacturing regulations, it may be subject to, among other things, product seizures, recalls, fines, injunctions, suspensions or revocations of marketing licenses, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Other countries also impose similar manufacturing requirements. Our promotional materials and sales activities are governed by FDA regulation. The FDA may require us to withdraw promotional material, to issue corrected material, or to cease promotion resulting in loss of credibility with our customers, reduced sales revenue or increased costs. Other countries also regulate our promotional materials and sales activities. Steps similar to those in the U.S. must be undertaken in virtually every other country comprising the market for our product candidates before any such product can be commercialized in those countries. The approval procedure and the time required for approval vary from country to country and may involve additional testing. There can be no assurance that approvals will be granted on a timely basis, or at all. In addition to FDA and related regulatory requirements in the U.S. and abroad, we are subject to extensive additional federal, state and foreign healthcare regulation, which includes but is not limited to, the Federal False Claims Act, the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the FCPA and similar laws in countries outside of the U.S. Similar laws and regulations exist in many other countries throughout the world in which we commercialize and intend to commercialize our products, including Revestive. We have developed and implemented a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are current best practices in the pharmaceutical industry, but cannot guarantee that we, our employees, our consultants or our third-party contractors are or will be in compliance with all federal, state and foreign regulations. If we, our representatives or our partners fail to comply with any of these laws or regulations, a range of fines, penalties and/or other sanctions could be imposed on us and/or our partners, including, but not limited to, restrictions on how we and/or our partners market and sell our products, significant fines, exclusions from government healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, litigation or other sanctions. Even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Clinical trials are long, expensive and have uncertain outcomes; if the data collected from preclinical and clinical trials of our product candidates are not sufficient to support approval by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities, our future profitability and stock price could be adversely affected. Before we receive regulatory approval for the commercial sale of our product candidates, our product candidates are subject to extensive preclinical testing and clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy. Clinical trials are long, expensive and uncertain processes. Clinical trials may not be commenced or completed on schedule and the FDA and comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries may not ultimately approve our product candidates for commercial sale. Further, even if the results of our preclinical studies or clinical trials are initially positive, it is possible that we will obtain different results in the later stages of drug development or that results seen in clinical trials will not continue with longer-term treatment. Drugs in late stages of clinical development may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. For example, positive results in early Phase 1 or Phase 2 clinical trials may not be repeated in larger Phase 2 or Phase 3 clinical trials. All of our potential drug candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. The clinical trials of any of our drug candidates could be unsuccessful, which would prevent us from commercializing the drug. Our failure to develop safe, commercially viable drugs would substantially impair our ability to generate revenues and sustain our operations and would materially harm our business and adversely affect our stock price. 32 If we fail to maintain our existing collaborative relationships, or if our existing collaborations fail, or if our collaborators do not devote adequate resources to the commercialization of our licensed drug candidates, we may have to reduce our rate of product development and may not see products brought to market or be able to achieve profitability. We have granted development, commercialization and marketing rights to a number of our collaborators for some of our key product development programs, including cinacalcet HCl and calcilytics. Our collaborators typically have full control over those efforts in their territories and the resources they commit to the programs. Accordingly, the success of the development and commercialization of product candidates in those programs depends on the efforts of our collaborators and is beyond our control. For us to receive any significant milestone or royalty payments from our collaborators, they must advance drugs through clinical trials, establish the safety and efficacy of our drug candidates, obtain regulatory approvals and achieve market acceptance of those products. As a result, if a collaborator elects to terminate its agreement with us with respect to a research program, our ability to advance the program may be significantly impaired or we may elect to discontinue funding the program altogether. The counterparties to certain of our collaborative research, development or commercial agreements have the right to terminate those agreements prior to their expiration after providing us with the requisite notice. See the description of these agreements under "Item 1 - Business - Royalty-Based Products and Product Candidates." Collaborative agreements, including our existing collaborative agreements, pose the following risks: • our contracts with collaborators may be terminated and we may not be able to replace our collaborators; • the terms of our contracts with our collaborators may not be favorable to us in the future; • our collaborators may not pursue further development and commercialization of compounds resulting from their collaborations with us or may pursue the same on a different regulatory pathway from us; • a collaborator with marketing and distribution rights to one or more of our product candidates may not commit enough resources to the marketing and distribution of such candidates; • disputes with our collaborators may arise, leading to delays in or termination of the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates, or resulting in significant litigation or arbitration; • contracts with our collaborators may fail to provide significant protection if one or more of them fail to perform; • in some circumstances, if a collaborator terminates an agreement, or if we are found to be in breach of our obligations, we may be unable to secure all of the necessary intellectual property rights and regulatory approval to continue developing the same compound or product; • our collaborators could independently develop, or develop with third parties, drugs that compete with our products; and • we may be unable to meet our financial or other obligations under our collaborative agreements. We cannot assure you that our current or future collaborative efforts will be successful. If our collaborative efforts fail, our business and financial condition would be materially harmed. Changes in our effective income tax rate could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to income taxes in the Unites States and various foreign jurisdictions. Taxes will be incurred as income is earned among these different jurisdictions. Various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our effective income tax rate. These factors include, but are not limited to, interpretations of existing tax laws, changes in tax laws and rates, the accounting for stock options and other share-based compensation, changes in accounting standards, future levels of research and development spending, changes in the mix and level of pre-tax earnings by taxing jurisdiction, the outcome of examinations by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other jurisdictions, the accuracy of our estimates for unrecognized tax benefits, the realization of deferred tax assets, or by changes to our ownership or capital structure. The impact on our income tax provision resulting from the above- mentioned factors and others may be significant and could adversely affect our results of operations. 33 Because of the uncertainty of pharmaceutical pricing, reimbursement and healthcare reform measures, we or our licensees may be unable to sell our products profitably. The availability of reimbursement by governmental and other third-party payers affects the market for any pharmaceutical product. These third-party payers continually attempt to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare. There have been a number of significant legislative and regulatory changes to the healthcare system enacted in recent years and further proposals and changes are likely. Medicare's policies may decrease the market for our products. Significant uncertainty exists with respect to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. In addition, third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services. We might not be able to sell our products profitably or recoup the value of our investment in product development if reimbursement is unavailable or limited in scope, particularly for product candidates addressing small patient populations, such as Gattex/Revestive for the treatment of short bowel syndrome and Natpara for hypoparathyroidism. We have established a price for Gattex in the U.S. based upon its status as an orphan drug which has generally been accepted to date but could be viewed as excessive by third-party payers in the future and could have a negative impact on our ability to sell Gattex. We cannot assure you concerning the level of reimbursement we will be able to obtain from third-party payers for Revestive in markets outside the U.S. In addition, in some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. We expect that there will continue to be a number of U.S. federal and state proposals to implement governmental pricing controls. While we cannot predict whether such legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the adoption of such proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profitability. Also, we cannot predict whether we will be able to secure reimbursement in certain ex-US markets within an acceptable range. On July 15, 2008, the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 became law with a number of Medicare and Medicaid reforms to establish a bundled Medicare payment rate that includes services and drug/labs that are currently separately billed. A rule by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services requires the inclusion of certain oral drugs such as Sensipar® (cinacalcet HCl) as part of the end stage renal disease Program of Medicare bundled payment. The implementation of this program is currently not expected to begin until at least 2016. Bundling initiatives that have been implemented in other healthcare settings have occasionally resulted in lower utilization of services that had not previously been a part of the bundled payment. We cannot speculate on the sales impact to Sensipar based on the new rule. Changes in government regulations or private third-party payers' reimbursement policies may reduce reimbursement for our products and adversely affect our future results. In addition, when a new medical product is approved, the availability of government and private reimbursement for that product is uncertain, as is the amount for which that product will be reimbursed. We cannot predict the availability or amount of reimbursement for our product candidates. In the U.S., federal and state legislatures, health agencies and third-party payers continue to focus on containing the cost of health care. In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, collectively PPACA, a sweeping law intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against healthcare fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for healthcare and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. We will not know the full effects of PPACA until applicable federal and state agencies issue regulations or guidance under the new law. Although it is too early to determine the effect of PPACA, the new law appears likely to continue the downward pressure on pharmaceutical pricing, especially under the Medicare program, and may also increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs. 34 In addition, the Budget Control Act of 2011 mandates, among other things, reductions in Medicare payment rates if a sufficient deficit reduction plan is not approved and a reduction in funding for Medicare, Medicaid or similar government programs may adversely affect our future results. Economic pressure on state budgets may result in states increasingly seeking to achieve budget savings through mechanisms that limit coverage or payment for our drugs. In recent years, some states have considered legislation that would control the prices of drugs. State Medicaid programs are increasingly requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and requiring prior authorization by the state program for use of any drug for which supplemental rebates are not being paid. Managed care organizations continue to seek price discounts and, in some cases, to impose restrictions on the coverage of particular drugs. Government efforts to reduce Medicaid expenses may lead to increased use of managed care organizations by Medicaid programs. This may result in managed care organizations influencing prescription decisions for a larger segment of the population and a corresponding constraint on prices and reimbursement for our products. In the European Union and some other international markets, the government provides health care at low cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices, patient eligibility or reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored health care system. Many countries are reducing their public expenditures and we expect to see strong efforts to reduce healthcare costs in international markets, including patient access restrictions, suspensions on price increases, prospective and possibly retroactive price reductions and other recoupments and increased mandatory discounts or rebates, recoveries of past price increases, and greater importation of drugs from lower-cost countries to higher-cost countries. These cost control measures could reduce our revenues. In addition, certain countries set prices by reference to the prices in other countries where our products are marketed. Thus, our inability to secure adequate prices in a particular country may not only limit the marketing of our products within that country, but may also adversely affect our ability to obtain acceptable prices in other markets. This may create the opportunity for third party cross border trade or influence our decision to sell or not to sell a product, thus adversely affecting our geographic expansion plans and revenues. Because of intense competition and technological change in the pharmaceutical industry, the marketplace may not accept our products, and we may not be able to compete successfully against other companies in our industry and achieve profitability. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are intensely competitive, with many companies in our industry having substantially greater financial and management resources, superior intellectual property positions and greater manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities, areas in which we have limited or no experience. In addition, many companies have significantly greater experience than we do in undertaking preclinical testing and clinical trials of new or improved pharmaceutical products and obtaining required regulatory approvals. Consequently, competitors may obtain FDA and other regulatory approvals for product candidates sooner and may be more successful in manufacturing and marketing their products than we or our collaborators, which could render our products and product candidates obsolete and non-competitive. Existing and future products, therapies and technological approaches may compete directly or indirectly with any of the products we develop. Existing and prospective competing products or other therapies may provide greater therapeutic benefits for a specific problem, may offer easier delivery or may offer comparable performance at a lower cost. Products approved for other indications may be used "off- label" in competition with our products. Any product candidate that we develop and that obtains regulatory approval must then compete for market acceptance and market share. Any products we develop may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payers and the medical community. Further, any products we develop may become obsolete before we recover any expenses we incurred in connection with the development of these products. As a result, we may never achieve profitability. We may be unable to obtain patents to protect our technologies from other companies with competitive products, our patents may be challenged or circumvented by third parties, and patents of other companies could prevent us from manufacturing, developing or marketing our products. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has not established a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims that it will allow in biotechnology patents. If it allows broad claims, the number and cost of patent administrative proceedings in the U.S. and the risk of infringement litigation may increase. If it allows narrow claims, the risk of infringement may decrease, but the value of our rights under our patents, licenses and patent applications may also decrease. In addition, the scope of the claims in a patent application can be significantly modified during prosecution before the patent is issued. For example, third parties may submit prior art during prosecution of our patent applications that affects the scope of any allowed claims. Consequently, we cannot know whether our pending 35 applications will result in the issuance of patents or, if any patents are issued, whether they will provide us with significant proprietary protection or will be circumvented, invalidated, or found to be unenforceable. Patent applications in the U.S. used to be maintained in secrecy until the patents were issued, and publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind discoveries. Patent applications filed in the U.S. after November 2000 generally will be published 18 months after the filing date unless the applicant certifies that the invention will not be the subject of a foreign patent application. We cannot assure you that, even if published, we will be aware of all such literature. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that the named inventors of our products and processes were the first to invent that product or process or that we were the first to pursue patent coverage for our inventions. Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to maintain and enforce our proprietary rights. If third parties engage in activities that infringe our proprietary rights we may incur significant costs in asserting our rights. We may not be successful in asserting our proprietary rights, which could result in our patents being held invalid or a court holding that the third party is not infringing, either of which would harm our competitive position. In addition, we cannot assure you that others will not design around our patented technology. Moreover, we may have to participate in derivation, reexamination, inter parties review, post grant review, or other U.S. Patent and Trademark Office administrative proceedings in other parts of the world to determine priority of invention and the validity of patent rights granted or applied for, which could result in substantial cost and delay, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us. We cannot assure you that our pending patent applications, if issued, would be held valid or enforceable. Additionally, many of our foreign patent applications have been published as part of the patent prosecution process in such countries. Protection of the rights revealed in published patent applications can be complex, costly and uncertain. Additionally, under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act (Hatch-Waxman Act), a generic pharmaceutical manufacturer may file an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, seeking permission to market a generic version of one of our products prior to the expiration of our relevant patents. For example, on June 15, 2008, we reported the receipt of Paragraph IV certification notification letters related to ANDAs submitted to the FDA by Barr Laboratories and Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. requesting approval to market and sell generic versions of cinacalcet HCl. Such a filing is an act of patent infringement and resulted in our filing patent infringement litigation to enforce our proprietary rights. Although we were ultimately successful in our patent infringement lawsuit against Barr Laboratories and Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc., we could face additional challenges from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers seeking approval for generic versions of our products. Defending such challenges could be costly and the results uncertain. Additionally the legislative implications of the Biologic Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009 that became effective in March 2010 are still being defined and regulatory precedence is limited. Manufacturers of biosimilar or other competing products may seek FDA approval for such products, and the process for challenging such products is evolving and uncertain. In order to protect goodwill associated with our company and product names, we rely on trademark protection for our marks. We have registered the "PREOS", "Gattex" and "Natpara" trademarks with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and registered the "Revestive" trademark in the European Union and other jurisdictions. A third party may assert a claim that one of those marks is confusingly similar to its mark, and such claims or the failure to timely register a mark or objections by the FDA could force us to select a new name for our product candidates, which could cause us to incur additional expense or delay the introduction of a product candidate to market. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and confidentiality provisions in our agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants to protect our intellectual property. However, these and other parties may not comply with the terms of their agreements with us, and we might be unable to adequately enforce our rights against these people or obtain adequate compensation for the damages caused by their unauthorized disclosure or use. Our trade secrets or those of our collaborators may also become known or may be independently discovered by others. 36 We granted security interests in our intellectual property in connection with the agreements to monetize PTH 1-84 and REGPARA, and these security interests could be enforced against us if we default on these agreements. In connection with our July 2007 agreement, as amended in December 2013, with DRI Capital, or DRI (formerly Drug Royalty L.P.3) to monetize PTH 1-84, we granted DRI a security interest in certain of our patents related to PTH 1-84 and other intellectual property underlying that agreement. In the event of our default under the agreement with DRI, DRI would be entitled to enforce its security interest against us and the property described above. If DRI validly enforced its security interest, we could potentially lose rights to our PTH 1-84 intellectual property. In addition, in connection with our February 2010 agreement with an affiliate of DRI or DRI, we granted DRI a security interest in our license agreement with Kyowa Hakko Kirin and certain of our patents related to REGPARA and other intellectual property underlying that agreement. In the event of our default under the agreement with DRI, DRI would be entitled to enforce its security interest against us and the property described above. If DRI validly enforced its security interest, we could potentially lose rights to our REGPARA intellectual property. Our products and product candidates may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which could increase our costs and negatively affect our profitability. Our success also depends on avoiding infringement of the proprietary technologies of others. In particular, there may be certain issued patents and patent applications claiming subject matter that we or our collaborators may be required to license in order to research, develop or commercialize at least some of our products or product candidates, including Gattex/Revestive and Natpara. In addition, third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us based on our patents or other intellectual property rights. An adverse outcome in these proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease or modify our use of the technology. If we are required to license such technology, we cannot assure you that a license under such patents and patent applications will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Further, we may incur substantial costs defending ourselves in lawsuits against charges of patent infringement or other unlawful use of another's proprietary technology. If we fail to attract and retain key executives and employees, the development and commercialization of our products may be adversely affected. We depend heavily on our executive, managerial, commercial and clinical personnel. To the extent that we lose any of these key personnel, our ability to develop products and become profitable may suffer. The risk of being unable to retain key personnel may be increased by the fact that, other than with respect to our CEO, we have not entered into long-term employment contracts with our executives or employees. Our future success will also depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain qualified executives and employees in the future. We face competition for personnel from other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. In particular, we are highly dependent on members of our executive team to manage our business. Each member of our executive team is highly qualified, important to our business and would be difficult to replace. We are also dependent on several key employees who would also be difficult to replace. If we are unable to retain our executives and key employees, our ability to operate under the outsourcing business model we have adopted and compete in our industry may be hindered and our business may suffer. Each of our executives and key employees is an employee at will and, despite our retention efforts; we cannot assure you that they will remain with the company. We are seeking to hire executives to manage our operations in certain countries outside of the United States and employees of those respective operations. We face additional challenges in our hiring efforts outside the United States due to the fact that we have limited operations and resources and are not well-known outside of the United States. 37 If product liability claims are brought against us or we are unable to obtain or maintain product liability insurance, we may incur substantial liabilities that could reduce our financial resources. The clinical testing and commercial use of pharmaceutical products involves significant exposure to product liability claims. We have obtained product liability insurance coverage for commercial sales of Gattex/Revestive we consider adequate and in conformance with industry standards and limited product liability insurance coverage for the clinical trials of our product candidates; however, our insurance coverage may be insufficient to protect us against all product liability damages. Further, liability insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and we might not be able to obtain or maintain product liability insurance in the future on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts to protect us against product liability damages. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in decreased demand for a future product, injury to our reputation, withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers, loss of revenue, costs of litigation, distraction of management and substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs. Additionally, if we are required to pay a product liability claim, we may not have sufficient financial resources to complete development or commercialization of any of our product candidates and our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Research and development involves hazardous materials and we must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. Research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, radioactive compounds and other potentially dangerous chemicals and biological agents. We utilize contractors to dispose of the hazardous materials we use in our research and development activities and although we believe our contractors' safety procedures for these materials comply with governmental standards, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. We currently have insurance, in amounts and on terms typical for companies in businesses that are similarly situated, that could cover all or a portion of a damage claim arising from our use of hazardous and other materials. However, if an accident or environmental discharge occurs, and we are held liable for any resulting damages, the associated liability could exceed our insurance coverage and our financial resources. We have limited experience operating internationally, are subject to a number of risks associated with our international activities and operations and may not be successful in our efforts to expand internationally. We have manufacturing, collaboration, clinical trial and other relationships outside the United Sates but we currently have very limited operations outside of the United States. In order to meet our long-term goals, we will need to grow our international operations significantly over the next several years. Consequently, we are and will continue to be subject to additional risks related to operating in foreign countries, including: the fact that we have limited experience operating our business internationally; we may not achieve the optimal pricing and reimbursement for Revestive; it may take longer than expected to process prescriptions for named patient sales of Revestive; there may be fewer addressable SBS patients than were originally forecasted; unexpected adverse events related to Gattex/Revestive, Natpara or our other products that occur in foreign markets that we have not experienced in the United States; local, economic and political conditions, including geopolitical events, such as war and terrorism, foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased or unpredictable operating expenses and reduced revenues and other obligations incident to doing business in, or with a company located in, another country; unexpected changes in reimbursement and pricing requirements, tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements; economic weakness, including foreign currency exchange risks, inflation or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; and compliance with foreign or U.S. laws, rules and regulations, including data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti- competition regulations, import, export and trade restrictions, anti-bribery/anti-corruption laws, regulations or rules, which could lead to actions by us or our licensees, distributors, manufacturers, other third parties who act on our behalf or with whom we do business in foreign countries or our employees who are working abroad that could subject us to investigation or prosecution under such foreign or U.S. laws. These and other risks associated with our international operations may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. 38 Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and likely will continue to be volatile and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. You should consider an investment in our common stock as risky and invest only if you can withstand a significant loss and wide fluctuations in the market value of your investment. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile. Factors affecting our common stock price include: • fluctuations in our operating results; • our ability to meet market expectations with respect to our sales of Gattex and Revestive outside of the U.S.; • our ability to meet market expectations with respect to FDA approval or the timing for FDA approval for Natpara and our other product candidates; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us, our collaborators or our competitors; • published reports by securities analysts; • the progress of our and our collaborators' clinical trials, including our and our collaborators' ability to produce clinical supplies of our product candidates on a timely basis and in sufficient quantities to meet our clinical trial requirements; • governmental regulation and changes in medical and pharmaceutical product reimbursement policies; • developments in patent or other intellectual property rights; • publicity concerning the discovery and development activities by our licensees; • public concern as to the safety and efficacy of drugs that we and our competitors develop and; • general market conditions. Anti-takeover provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws and under Delaware law may discourage or prevent a change of control. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws and Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law could delay or prevent a change of control of us. For example, our Board of Directors, without further stockholder approval, may issue preferred stock that could delay or prevent a change of control as well as reduce the voting power of the holders of common stock, even to the extent of losing control to others. Substantial future sales of our common stock by us or by our existing stockholders could cause our stock price to fall. Additional equity financings or other share issuances by us could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. From time to time we may issue our previously authorized and unissued securities, including shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. We have an effective shelf registration statement from which additional shares of our common stock and other securities can be issued at any time. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock in connection with future strategic alliances or acquisitions, future private placements of our securities for capital raising purposes or for other business purposes. In addition, existing shareholders could sell a large number of our shares into the public market. Future issuances or sales of our common stock, or the perception that such issuances or sales could occur, could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. 39 Royalty revenues received from Amgen on sales of cinacalcet HCl may not be sufficient to cover the interest and principal payments on our Sensipar Notes; we would have to either voluntarily make such payments out of available cash resources or risk forfeiture of certain royalty rights under the Amgen agreement. Our outstanding Sensipar Notes are non-recourse to us and are secured by our royalty and milestone payment rights under our agreement with Amgen. Until the Sensipar Notes are repaid, all royalties earned in excess of $8.0 million per quarter from Amgen will go to the payment of interest and principal on the notes. If the royalties earned from Amgen are insufficient to cover the interest and other payments due under the notes, we would have to forfeit our rights to future royalties and other rights under the Amgen agreement, unless we make the payments due out of our available cash resources. If we make the payments, our cash resources would be significantly reduced and we may not have sufficient cash resources to fund our programs and operations. Conversion of the Convertible Notes will dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their notes. The conversion of some or all of our outstanding Convertible Notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants. Changes in interest rates can affect the fair value of our investment portfolio and the debt we have issued and its interest earnings. Our interest rate risk exposure results from our investment portfolio and our non-recourse notes. Our primary objectives in managing our investment portfolio are to preserve principal, maintain proper liquidity to meet operating needs and maximize yields. The securities we hold in our investment portfolio are subject to interest rate risk. At any time, sharp changes in interest rates can affect the fair value of the investment portfolio and its interest earnings. Currently, we do not hedge these interest rate exposures. We have established policies and procedures to manage exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. We place our investments with high quality issuers, limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer, and do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. The fair value of the Convertible Notes is affected by changes in the interest rates and by changes in the price of our common stock. The fair values of our Sensipar Notes are affected by changes in the interest rates and by historical and future rates of royalty revenues from cinacalcet HCl sales. The fair value of our DRI debt is affected by changes in the interest rates and by historical and future rates of royalty revenues from REGPARA sales. If securities or industry analysts do not continue to publish research or reports or if they publish unfavorable research about our business, the price of our common stock and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If securities or industry analysts do not continue coverage of us the trading price for our common stock would be negatively affected. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our common stock, the price of our common stock would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover us or fails to publish regular reports on us, interest in the purchase of our common stock could decrease, which could cause the price of our common stock or trading volume to decline. If certain transactions occur with respect to our capital stock, limitations may be imposed on our ability to utilize net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards to reduce our income taxes. We have accumulated net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards available to offset taxable income in future tax periods. If certain transactions occur with respect to our capital stock that result in a cumulative change of more than 50% of the ownership of capital stock over a three-year period (as determined under rules prescribed by Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and applicable Treasury regulations), an annual limitation would be imposed with respect to the ability to utilize our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards that existed at the time of the ownership change. We experienced an ownership change in 2010. As a result of this ownership change, we are subject to an annual limitation imposed on our use of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards existing at the time of the ownership change to offset current and future taxable income. 40 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 