Risk Factors. The following information sets forth risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements we have made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and those we may make from time to time. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operation, prospects or financial condition could be harmed. These are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also affect our business operations. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of operating losses. We expect to incur net losses and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. With the exception of 2007 and 1996, we have not been profitable since our inception in 1986. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $869.5 million. To date, our revenue from product sales has been in the form of royalty payments from Amgen on sales of cinacalcet HCl, royalty payments from Nycomed on sales of Preotact, milestone revenue from our collaborative agreements with Nycomed and product sales to Nycomed of Preotact. We have assigned the right to receive future royalties from Amgen for sales of cinacalcet HCl to a wholly owned subsidiary. The subsidiary has pledged the right to such royalties as security for the repayment of certain notes. As of December 31, 2007, there were approximately $260.7 million of these notes outstanding, including $100.0 million of Class B Notes issued in August 2007 and $6.2 million of additional notes issued as interest on the Class B Notes. The principal amount of the notes issued in August will continue to increase through the issuance of the additional notes in lieu of payment of cash interest until the initial class of notes is paid in full. Though the notes are non-recourse to us, if the Amgen royalties are not sufficient to repay the notes on a timely basis, or at all, then we may never receive additional cash flows from future royalty payments from Amgen on sales of cinacalcet HCl. In July 2007, we assigned our Preotact royalty interest to DRI. Under our agreement with DRI, the Preotact royalty interest will return to us only if DRI receives a certain sum of royalties based on Nycomed's net sales of Preotact. We are entirely dependent on Nycomed for sales of Preotact and we cannot assure you that DRI will receive royalties in an amount sufficient to cause the Preotact royalty interest to be returned to us. We have not generated any other revenue from product sales to date, and it is possible that we will never have sufficient product sales revenue to achieve profitability. We expect to continue to incur losses for at least the next several years as we and our collaborators and licensees pursue clinical trials and research and development efforts. To become profitable, we, alone or with our collaborators and licensees, must successfully develop, manufacture and market our current product candidates and continue to identify, develop, manufacture and market new product candidates. It is possible that we will never have significant product sales revenue or receive significant royalties on our licensed product candidates. We may require additional funds. Currently, we are not a self-sustaining business and certain economic, operational and strategic factors may require us to secure additional funds. If we lack sufficient funding at any time in the future, we may not be able to develop or commercialize our products, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. Our current and anticipated operations require substantial capital. We expect that our existing cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments will sufficiently fund our current and planned operations through at least 2008. However, our future capital needs will depend on many factors, including the extent to which we enter into collaboration agreements with respect to any of our proprietary product candidates, receive royalty and milestone payments from our collaborators and make progress in our development and commercialization activities. Our capital requirements will also depend on the magnitude and scope of these activities, our ability to maintain existing and establish new collaborations, the terms of those collaborations, the success of our collaborators in developing and marketing products under their respective collaborations with us, our ability to effectively out-source our clinical development, regulatory, data management, research, quality control and assurance, and other activities, the success of our contract manufacturers in producing clinical and commercial supplies of our product candidates and drug delivery devices on a timely basis and in sufficient quantities to meet our requirements, competing technological and market developments, the time and cost of obtaining regulatory approvals, the cost of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent and other rights and our success in acquiring and integrating complementary products, technologies or companies. We do not have committed external sources of funding, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional funds on acceptable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to: engage in equity financings that would be dilutive to current stockholders; delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our development programs; obtain funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to technologies, product candidates or products that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves; or license rights to technologies, product candidates or products on terms that are less favorable to us than might otherwise be available. If we do not receive regulatory approval to market GATTEX in a timely manner, or at all, or if we obtain regulatory approval to market GATTEX but the approved label is not competitive with then existing competitive products, our business will be materially harmed and our stock price may be adversely affected. We are developing GATTEX as a potential treatment for a variety of gastrointestinal disorders, including SBS. In an intent-to-treat analysis of our pivotal Phase 3 study, forty-six percent (46%) of patients receiving the lower dose of GATTEX (N=35) responded and achieved a highly statistically significant reduction in PN compared to placebo (p=0.007). Twenty-five percent (25%) of patients receiving the higher dose of GATTEX (N=32) responded and showed a trend in the difference between the treatment group and placebo, but this did not reach statistical significance (p=0.161). In this Phase 3 study, there were no statistical differences in the incidence rates of adverse events or serious adverse events among the treatment groups when compared to placebo. Two low-dose patients gained independence from and discontinued PN by week 16 and a third high-dose patient discontinued PN at the end of treatment. The study's criteria for conducting the statistical analysis of the primary endpoint required that the results for the high-dose group show statistical significance before considering the results of the low-dose group. Given GATTEX's orphan designation in SBS and the statistically strong (p=0.007) and clinically meaningful findings in the low-dose group, we met with the FDA to discuss the regulatory requirements for the development of GATTEX for SBS. During our meeting, the FDA recommended that we conduct a confirmatory Phase 3 study prior to submitting an NDA. We plan to initiate this study and are currently finalizing a protocol to address the FDA's comments and will incorporate results from our Phase 3 extension study The process of structuring and commencing a second Phase 3 clinical study will require significant resources and could be time consuming and subject to unanticipated delays and cost. For example, the FDA may not concur with our proposed protocol for the study, which would delay and could increase the cost of the study. Even if the FDA concurs with our protocol, there are no assurances that the results of the second Phase 3 study based on the protocol will show the required safety and efficacy data to support an NDA for GATTEX or regulatory approval of GATTEX by the FDA. If we are ultimately unable to obtain regulatory approval to commercialize GATTEX in a timely manner, or at all, or if the FDA approved indication, side effect and adverse events profile, and product distribution requirements are not competitive with existing competitor products, our ability to generate revenues to sustain our operations will be substantially impaired, our business will be materially harmed and our stock price may be adversely affected. Biotechnology stock prices, including our stock price, have declined significantly in certain instances where companies have failed to meet expectations with respect to FDA approval or the timing for FDA approval. If we do not receive regulatory approval to market NPSP558 for hypoparathyroidism in the U.S. in a timely manner, or at all, or if we obtain regulatory approval to market NPSP558 for hypoparathyroidism but the approved label is not competitive with then existing competitive products, our business may be materially harmed and our stock price may be adversely affected. We are developing NPSP558 for hypoparathyroidism. Historically, we have developed this compound as PREOS for osteoporosis. We are currently supporting an investigator-initiated trial to explore the use of NPSP558 as a hormone replacement therapy to treat hypoparathyroidism. The study calls for 50 patients, most of them already enrolled, to be dosed with NPSP558 every-other-day for a period of up to 24 months. The objectives of this study are to understand the effect of parathyroid hormone 1-84 on bone quality in hypoparathyroidism, and demonstrate the safety and efficacy of NPSP558 in this indication. We are also initiating a pivotal registration study to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of NPSP558 as a potential therapy to treat hypoparathyroidism. This study would call for 75 to 100 patients to be dosed with NPSP558 for a period of 24 weeks. Prior to commencement of dosing, patients will complete an eight-to-ten week screening and stabilization process. The efficacy endpoints will include eucalcemia and reduction of supplemental calcium and vitamin D analogs. The study preparation has started and we expect topline results by the second half of 2010. We believe that because of our 2007 fundraising activities, the sale of non-core assets and the GATTEX partnership with Nycomed, we now have the financial resources to fund the continued U.S. development of NPSP558 and are committed to advancing its development in hypoparathyroidism. The investigator-initiated study and pivotal registration study are, like all clinical trials, long, expensive and uncertain processes and there can be no assurance that data collected from these studies will be sufficient to support a new drug application or FDA approval of NPSP558 for hypoparathyroidism. If we are unable to obtain U.S. regulatory approval for NPSP558 for hypoparathyroidism or PREOS for osteoporosis, or if we receive regulatory approval to market NPSP558 or PREOS in the U.S. but the FDA-approved indication, side effect and adverse events profile, and product distribution requirements are not competitive with existing competitor products, our business may be materially harmed and our stock price may be adversely affected. Biotechnology stock prices, including our stock price, have declined significantly in certain instances where companies have failed to meet expectations with respect to FDA approval or the timing for FDA approval. We may never develop any more commercial drugs or other products that generate revenues. Sensipar (Mimpara in Europe) and Preotact are our only sources, to date, of commercial revenues. We also expect to begin receiving royalty revenue on Kirin's sales of REGPARA in Japan in the second half of 2008. Our remaining product candidates will require significant additional development, clinical trials, regulatory approvals and additional investment before their potential commercialization. As part of our corporate restructuring, we now outsource substantially all of our research, and development activities. If we are unable to transition to an outsourcing company in an efficient and timely manner, the development of our product candidates will be delayed. Additionally, our product development efforts may not lead to commercial drugs for a number of reasons, including the failure of our product candidates to be safe and effective in clinical trials or because we have inadequate financial or other resources to pursue the programs through the clinical trial process. Even if we are able to commercialize one or more of our product candidates, we cannot assure you that such product candidates will find acceptance in the medical community. We have limited internal capacity to conduct preclinical testing and clinical trials, and our dependence on contract research organizations could result in delays in and additional costs for our drug development efforts. We have historically had limited internal resources and capacity to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials. In addition, we restructured our operations in 2007, which included reductions in our worldwide workforce as well as a transition to an outsourcing business strategy. Because of these reductions and our limited internal resources to perform preclinical and clinical testing, we rely almost entirely on contract research organizations, or CROs, to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials for drug candidates that we choose to develop without a collaborator. If the CROs that we hire to perform our preclinical testing and clinical trials or our collaborators or licensees do not meet deadlines, do not follow proper procedures, or a conflict arises between us and our CROs, our preclinical testing and clinical trials may take longer than expected, may be delayed or may be terminated. If we were forced to find a replacement CRO to perform any of our preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may not be able to find a suitable replacement on favorable terms, or at all. Even if we were able to find another CRO to perform a preclinical test or clinical trial, the delay in the test or clinical trial may result in significant expenditures. Events such as these may result in delays in our obtaining regulatory approval for our drug candidates or our ability to commercialize our products and could result in increased expenditures that would adversely affect our operating results. In addition, for some of our drug candidates, we plan to contract with collaborators or licensees to advance those candidates through later-stage, more expensive clinical trials, rather than invest our own resources to perform these clinical trials. Depending on the terms of our agreements with these collaborators or licensees, we may not have any control over the conduct of these clinical trials, and in any event we would be subject to the risks associated with depending on collaborators or licensees to develop these drug candidates, as described below. We have no internal manufacturing capabilities. We depend on third parties, including a number of sole suppliers, for the manufacturing, supply, and storage of our product candidates and drug delivery devices to be used for our commercial launch of products, our partner's commercial launch of products, and in our clinical trials. We have experienced instances where our contract manufacturers have produced product and drug delivery devices, which have not complied with our specifications and could not be used for commercial use or clinical trials. Product introductions and clinical trials may be delayed or suspended if the manufacture or supply of our products or drug delivery devices are delayed, interrupted or discontinued. We do not have internal manufacturing capabilities to produce supplies of GATTEX, NPSP558 or any of our other product candidates to support clinical trials or commercial launch of these products, if they are approved. We also do not have internal manufacturing capabilities to produce supplies of the injection devices used to administer GATTEX and NPSP558. We are dependent on third parties for manufacturing, supply, and storage of our product candidates and injection devices. If we are unable to contract for a sufficient supply of our product candidates or injection devices on acceptable terms, or if we encounter delays or difficulties in the manufacturing or supply process or our relationships with our manufacturers, we may not have sufficient product or injection devices to conduct or complete our clinical trials or support preparations for the commercial launch of our product candidates, if approved. We depend on a number of contract manufacturers to supply key components of GATTEX, NPSP558, and PREOS. For instance, we have entered into an agreement with Boehringer Ingelheim Austria GmbH, or BI, to produce bulk supplies of the active pharmaceutical ingredients of GATTEX, NPSP558, and PREOS for clinical use and our commercial requirements if we receive FDA approval. We expect BI to be able to produce sufficient bulk supplies of GATTEX NPSP558, and PREOS on a timely basis. Nevertheless, manufacturing biological products is complex and no assurances can be provided that BI will be able to produce commercial quantities of bulk drug product in a timely manner or at all. We have entered into a manufacturing agreement with Cangene Corporation, or Cangene, for the production of finished supplies of GATTEX. Cangene is currently our sole source for our fill and finish clinical supply requirements of GATTEX. Although Cangene has only produced small quantities of GATTEX for our clinical requirements, we anticipate that Cangene will be able to produce sufficient finished commercial supplies of GATTEX, if GATTEX receives marketing approval from the FDA. Nevertheless, the fill and finish aspect of the manufacturing process is complex and no assurances can be provided that Cangene will be able to produce commercial quantities of GATTEX in a timely manner or at all. We also depend on Vetter Pharma-Fertigung GmbH, or Vetter, for the production of finished supplies of NPSP558 for clinical use. Because the "fill and finish" aspect of the manufacturing process for NPSP558 requires the use of Vetter's proprietary technology, Vetter is our sole source for finished supplies of NPSP558. The fill and finish aspect of the manufacturing process for NPSP558 is complex and no assurances can be provided that Vetter will be able to produce sufficient finished supplies of NPSP558 to satisfy our commercial requirements in a timely manner, or at all. Since we have not received marketing approval for NPSP558 in the U.S., we currently do not have a formal manufacturing and supply agreement with Vetter for the production of commercial quantities of finished supplies of NPSP558. If we are unable to reach such an agreement on favorable terms, we may be required to seek another manufacturing partner to produce finished supplies of NPSP558, which could result in significant added costs and delays. We rely on Ypsomed AG, or Ypsomed, to manufacture clinical supplies of the injection pen device used for the administration of PREOS. Ypsomed is our sole source for the pen and, absent the development of an alternative method of delivery of PREOS, we will remain dependent on Ypsomed's technology to produce the pen in commercial quantities if the FDA approves PREOS. The pen has been specifically designed and developed for delivery of PREOS. Manufacturing drug delivery devices such as the pen is a complex process and no assurances can be provided that Ypsomed will be able to produce commercial quantities of the pen in a timely manner or at all. Since we have not received marketing approval for PREOS in the U.S., we currently do not have a formal agreement with Ypsomed for the production of commercial quantities of injection pen devices. If we are unable to reach such an agreement on favorable terms, we may be required to seek another manufacturing partner to develop and produce a drug delivery device for the administration of PREOS, which could result in significant added costs and delays. We have experienced certain instances where our contract manufacturers have produced product and pens that have not met our required specifications and could not be used in clinical trials or for commercialization. Any extended disruption or termination of our relationship with any of our contract manufacturers could materially harm our business and financial condition and adversely affect our stock price. Dependence on contract manufacturers for commercial production involves a number of additional risks, many of which are outside our control. These additional risks include: there may be delays in scale-up to quantities needed for clinical trials and commercial launch or failure to manufacture such quantities to our specifications, or to deliver such quantities on the dates we require; our current and future manufacturers are subject to ongoing, periodic, unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and international regulatory authorities for compliance with strictly enforced cGMP regulations and similar foreign standards, and we do not have control over our contract manufacturers' compliance with these regulations and standards; our current and future manufacturers may not be able to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, which would prohibit them from manufacturing products or drug delivery devices for us; if we need to change to other commercial manufacturing contractors, the FDA and comparable foreign regulators must approve these contractors prior to our use, which would require new testing and compliance inspections, and the new manufacturers would have to be educated in, or themselves develop substantially equivalent processes necessary for, the production of our products and drug delivery devices; our manufacturers might not be able to fulfill our commercial needs, which would require us to seek new manufacturing arrangements that could result in substantial delays and higher costs; and we may not have intellectual property rights, or may have to share intellectual property rights, to any improvements in the manufacturing processes or new manufacturing processes for our products or drug delivery devices. Any of these factors could cause us to delay or suspend clinical trials, regulatory submission, required approvals or commercialization of our products under development, entail higher costs and result in our inability to commercialize our products effectively. Clinical trials are long, expensive and uncertain processes and the FDA may ultimately not approve any of our product candidates. We cannot assure you that data collected from preclinical and clinical trials of our product candidates will be sufficient to support approval by the FDA, the failure of which could delay our profitability and adversely affect our stock price. Before we receive regulatory approval for the commercial sale of our product candidates, our product candidates are subject to extensive preclinical testing and clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy. Clinical trials are long, expensive and uncertain processes. Clinical trials may not be commenced or completed on schedule, and the FDA may not ultimately approve our product candidates for commercial sale. Further, even if the results of our preclinical studies or clinical trials are initially positive, it is possible that we will obtain different results in the later stages of drug development or that results seen in clinical trials will not continue with longer-term treatment. Drugs in late stages of clinical development may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. For example, positive results in early Phase 1 or Phase 2 clinical trials may not be repeated in larger Phase 2 or Phase 3 clinical trials. All of our potential drug candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. The clinical trials of any of our drug candidates, including GATTEX and NPSP558, could be unsuccessful, which would prevent us from commercializing the drug. Our failure to develop safe, commercially viable drugs would substantially impair our ability to generate revenues and sustain our operations and would materially harm our business and adversely affect our stock price. If we fail to maintain our existing or establish new collaborative relationships, or if our collaborators do not devote adequate resources to the development and commercialization of our licensed drug candidates, we may have to reduce our rate of product development and may not see products brought to market or be able to achieve profitability. Our strategy for developing, manufacturing and commercializing our products includes entering into various relationships with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to advance many of our programs. We have granted development, commercialization and marketing rights to a number of our collaborators for some of our key product development programs, including cinacalcet HCl, Preotact, GATTEX, calcilytics, and glycine reuptake inhibitors. Our collaborators typically have full control over those efforts in their territories and the resources they commit to the programs. Accordingly, the success of the development and commercialization of product candidates in those programs depends on their efforts and is beyond our control. For us to receive any significant milestone or royalty payments from our collaborators, they must advance drugs through clinical trials, establish the safety and efficacy of our drug candidates, obtain regulatory approvals and achieve market acceptance of those products. As a result, if a collaborator elects to terminate its agreement with us with respect to a research program, our ability to advance the program may be significantly impaired or we may elect to discontinue funding the program altogether. For example, in early 2002, Abbott terminated its agreement with respect to isovaleramide, and Forest Laboratories terminated its agreement with us with respect to ALX-0646. As a result, these programs were discontinued. As part of our product development and commercialization strategy, we evaluate whether to seek collaborators for our product candidates. If we elect to collaborate, we may not be able to negotiate collaborative arrangements for our product candidates on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to establish collaborative arrangements, we will either need to increase our expenditures and undertake the development and commercialization activities at our own expense or delay further development of the affected product candidate. Collaborative agreements, including our existing collaborative agreements, pose the following risks: our contracts with collaborators may be terminated and we may not be able to replace our collaborators; the terms of our contracts with our collaborators may not be favorable to us in the future; our collaborators may not pursue further development and commercialization of compounds resulting from their collaborations with us or may pursue the same on a different regulatory pathway from us; a collaborator with marketing and distribution rights to one or more of our product candidates may not commit enough resources to the marketing and distribution of such candidates; disputes with our collaborators may arise, leading to delays in or termination of the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates, or resulting in significant litigation or arbitration; contracts with our collaborators may fail to provide significant protection if one or more of them fail to perform; in some circumstances, if a collaborator terminates an agreement, or if we are found to be in breach of our obligations, we may be unable to secure all of the necessary intellectual property rights and regulatory approval to continue developing the same compound or product; our collaborators could independently develop, or develop with third parties, drugs that compete with our products; and we may be unable to meet our financial or other obligations under our collaborative agreements. We cannot assure you that our current or future collaborative efforts will be successful. If our collaborative efforts fail, our business and financial condition would be materially harmed. We have never marketed, sold or distributed a product and may need to rely on third parties to successfully market and sell our products and generate revenues. Due to the delay in obtaining regulatory approval of PREOS for osteoporosis, we have eliminated all commercial sales and related field operations. As a result, if and when we receive regulatory approval to market and sell one or more of our product candidates we will have to either build a new commercial organization or enter into agreements with contract sales organizations to provide sales, marketing, market research and product planning services. Our ability to gain market acceptance and generate revenues will be substantially dependent upon our ability to build a commercial organization and/or enter into such agreements on favorable terms and to manage the efforts of those service providers successfully. We may also benefit from establishing a relationship with one or more companies with existing distribution systems and direct sales forces to market any or all of our product candidates; however, we cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into or maintain agreements with these companies on acceptable terms, if at all. Because of the uncertainty of pharmaceutical pricing, reimbursement and healthcare reform measures, we may be unable to sell our products profitably. The availability of reimbursement by governmental and other third-party payers affects the market for any pharmaceutical product. These third-party payers continually attempt to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare. There have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system and further proposals are likely. Medicare's policies may decrease the market for our products that are designed to treat patients with age-related disorders, such as osteoporosis and hyperparathyroidism. Significant uncertainty exists with respect to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. In addition, third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services. We might not be able to sell our products profitably or recoup the value of our investment in product development if reimbursement is unavailable or limited in scope, particularly for product candidates addressing small patient populations, such as GATTEX for the treatment of SBS and NPSP558 for hypoparathyroidism. In addition, in some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. We expect that there will continue to be a number of federal and state proposals to implement governmental pricing controls. While we cannot predict whether such legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the adoption of such proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profitability. Because of intense competition and technological change in the pharmaceutical industry, the marketplace may not accept our products, and we may not be able to compete successfully against other companies in our industry and achieve profitability. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are intensely competitive. We have competitors in both the U.S. and internationally including major multi-national pharmaceutical companies, chemical companies, biotech companies, universities and other research organizations. Many of our competitors have drug products that have already been approved or are in development, and operate large, well-funded research and development programs in these fields. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and management resources, superior intellectual property positions and greater manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities, areas in which we have limited or no experience. In addition, many of our competitors have significantly greater experience than we do in undertaking preclinical testing and clinical trials of new or improved pharmaceutical products and obtaining required regulatory approvals. Consequently, our competitors may obtain FDA and other regulatory approvals for product candidates sooner and may be more successful in manufacturing and marketing their products than we or our collaborators, which could render our product candidates obsolete and non-competitive. Existing and future products, therapies and technological approaches will compete directly with the products we seek to develop. Current and prospective competing products may provide greater therapeutic benefits for a specific problem, may offer easier delivery or may offer comparable performance at a lower cost. Any product candidate that we develop and that obtains regulatory approval must then compete for market acceptance and market share. Our product candidates may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payers and the medical community. Further, any products we develop may become obsolete before we recover any expenses we incurred in connection with the development of these products. As a result, we may never achieve profitability. We may be unable to obtain patents to protect our technologies from other companies with competitive products, our patents may be challenged or circumvented by third parties, and patents of other companies could prevent us from manufacturing, developing or marketing our products. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has not established a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims that it will allow in biotechnology patents. If it allows broad claims, the number and cost of patent interference proceedings in the U.S. and the risk of infringement litigation may increase. If it allows narrow claims, the risk of infringement may decrease, but the value of our rights under our patents, licenses and patent applications may also decrease. In addition, the scope of the claims in a patent application can be significantly modified during prosecution before the patent is issued. Consequently, we cannot know whether our pending applications will result in the issuance of patents or, if any patents are issued, whether they will provide us with significant proprietary protection or will be circumvented, invalidated, or found to be unenforceable. Until recently, patent applications in the U.S. were maintained in secrecy until the patents issued, and publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries. Patent applications filed in the U.S. after November 2000 generally will be published 18 months after the filing date unless the applicant certifies that the invention will not be the subject of a foreign patent application. We cannot assure you that, even if published, we will be aware of all such literature. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that the named inventors of our products and processes were the first to invent that product or process or that we were the first to pursue patent coverage for our inventions. Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to maintain and enforce our proprietary rights. If third parties engage in activities that infringe our proprietary rights, our management's focus will be diverted and we may incur significant costs in asserting our rights. We may not be successful in asserting our proprietary rights, which could result in our patents being held invalid or a court holding that the third party is not infringing, either of which would harm our competitive position. In addition, we cannot assure you that others will not design around our patented technology. Moreover, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or other analogous proceedings in other parts of the world to determine priority of invention and the validity of patent rights granted or applied for, which could result in substantial cost and delay, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us. We cannot assure you that our pending patent applications, if issued, would be held valid or enforceable. Additionally, many of our foreign patent applications have been published as part of the patent prosecution process in such countries. Protection of the rights revealed in published patent applications can be complex, costly and uncertain. Additionally, under the Hatch-Waxman Act, a generic pharmaceutical manufacturer may file an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, seeking permission to market a generic version of one of our products prior to the expiration of our relevant patents. For example, a generic pharmaceutical manufacturer could file an ANDA for cinacalcet HCl as early as March 2008. Such a filing is an act of patent infringement and may result in our filing patent infringement litigation to enforce our proprietary rights. There can be no assurance that we would prevail in such an action and our business may be adversely affected should we fail to prevail in any such litigation. In order to protect goodwill associated with our company and product names, we rely on trademark protection for our marks. We registered the "PREOS" trademark with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. A third party may assert a claim that the PREOS mark is confusingly similar to its mark, and such claims or the failure to timely register the PREOS mark or objections by the FDA could force us to select a new name for PREOS, which could cause us to incur additional expense or delay its introduction to market. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and confidentiality provisions in our agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants to protect our intellectual property. However, these and other parties may not comply with the terms of their agreements with us, and we might be unable to adequately enforce our rights against these people or obtain adequate compensation for the damages caused by their unauthorized disclosure or use. Our trade secrets or those of our collaborators may become known or may be independently discovered by others. Our products and product candidates may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which could increase our costs and negatively affect our profitability. Our success also depends on avoiding infringement of the proprietary technologies of others. In particular, there may be certain issued patents and patent applications claiming subject matter that our collaborators or we may be required to license in order to research, develop or commercialize at least some of our product candidates, including GATTEX, NPSP558 and PREOS. In addition, third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us based on our patents or other intellectual property rights. An adverse outcome in these proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease or modify our use of the technology. If we are required to license such technology, we cannot assure you that a license under such patents and patent applications will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Further, we may incur substantial costs defending ourselves in lawsuits against charges of patent infringement or other unlawful use of another's proprietary technology. We are subject to extensive government regulations that may cause us to cancel or delay the introduction of our products to market. Our business is subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the U.S. and other countries. Prior to marketing in the United States, a drug must undergo rigorous testing and an extensive regulatory approval process implemented by the FDA under federal law, including the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. To receive approval, our collaborators or we must demonstrate, among other things, with substantial evidence from well- controlled clinical trials that the product is both safe and effective for each indication where approval is sought. Depending upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product and the nature of the disease or disorder to be treated, the approval process can take several years and require substantial expenditures. Data obtained from testing are susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals of our products. Drug testing is subject to complex FDA rules and regulations, including the requirement to conduct human testing on a large number of test subjects. Our collaborators, the FDA or we may suspend human trials at any time if a party believes that the test subjects are exposed to unacceptable health risks. We cannot assure you that any of our product candidates will be safe for human use. Other countries also have extensive requirements regarding clinical trials, market authorization and pricing. These regulatory requirements vary widely from country to country, but, in general, are subject to all of the risks associated with U.S. approvals. If any of our products receive regulatory approval, the approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is safe and effective, as demonstrated through clinical trials. In addition, results of preclinical studies and clinical trials with respect to our products could subject us to adverse product labeling requirements that could harm the sale of such products. Even if regulatory approval is obtained, later discovery of previously unknown problems may result in restrictions of the product, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Further, governmental approval may subject us to ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies. Even if we obtain governmental approval, a marketed product, its respective manufacturer and its manufacturing facilities are subject to unannounced inspections by the FDA and must comply with the FDA's cGMP and other regulations. These regulations govern all areas of production, record keeping, personnel and quality control. If a manufacturer fails to comply with any of the manufacturing regulations, it may be subject to, among other things, product seizures, recalls, fines, injunctions, suspensions or revocations of marketing licenses, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Other countries also impose similar manufacturing requirements. Our promotional materials and sales activities are governed by FDA regulation. The FDA may require us to withdraw promotional material, to issue corrected material, or to cease promotion resulting in loss of credibility with our customers, reduced sales revenue or increased costs. Because of our restructuring initiatives and the related reductions in our workforce, we have reallocated certain employment responsibilities and have increased our dependence on third parties to perform certain corporate functions. We have restructured our operations, which included reductions in our workforce as well as a transition to an outsourcing business strategy. The reductions have resulted in the loss of numerous long-term employees, the loss of institutional knowledge and expertise and the reallocation of certain employment responsibilities, all of which could adversely affect operational efficiencies, employee performance and retention. In addition, because of these reductions, we are outsourcing certain corporate functions, which makes us more dependent on third parties for the performance of these functions in connection with our business and product candidates. To the extent that we are unable to effectively reallocate employee responsibilities, retain key employees, establish and maintain agreements with competent third-party contractors on terms that are acceptable to us, or effectively manage the work performed by any retained third-party contractors, our ability to advance our business or product candidates may be significantly impaired and our stock price may be adversely affected. If we fail to attract and retain key executives and employees, the development and commercialization of our products may be adversely affected. We depend heavily on our executive, managerial and clinical personnel. To the extent that we lose any of these key personnel, our ability to develop products and become profitable may suffer. The risk of being unable to retain key personnel may be increased by the fact that we have not entered into long-term employment contracts with our executives or employees. Our future success will also depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain qualified executives and employees in the future. We face competition for personnel from other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. In particular, we are highly dependent on members of our executive team to manage our business. In connection with our restructuring initiatives and our plan to transition the company to an outsourcing business strategy, certain members of our executive team are no longer with the company and new executive team members have been hired. Our transition in expertise, as with any company, will take time, resources and may result in unexpected expense and delay to our business programs. Each new member of our executive team is highly qualified, important to our business and would be difficult to replace. We are also dependent on several key employees who would also be difficult to replace. If we are unable to retain our executives and key employees, our ability to operate under the outsourcing business model and compete in our industry may be hindered and our business may suffer. Each of our executives and key employees is an employee at will and, despite our retention efforts; we cannot assure you that they will remain with the company. We are involved in securities class action litigation and shareholder derivative litigation that could become expensive and divert management's attention from operating our business. NPS and certain of our officers have been named as defendants in a consolidated securities class action lawsuit. In addition, certain of our officers, directors and former officers and directors have been named as defendants in several shareholder derivative lawsuits. The initial derivative litigation has been dismissed, but the court has granted the plaintiff leave to amend and re-file the complaint. Additional derivative actions have been filed as well, which mimic the previously dismissed case but relate to GATTEX. We believe that the claims in these lawsuits are without merit and intend vigorously to defend our self and the other defendants against the claims. We maintain insurance for claims of this nature, which we believe is adequate. Moreover, we believe, based on information currently available, that the filing and ultimate outcome of the lawsuits will not have a material impact on our financial position. However, our extended involvement in these actions may become expensive and divert management's attention and resources from operating our business. Additionally, we may not be successful in having these lawsuits dismissed or settled within the limits of our insurance or at all. If product liability claims are brought against us or we are unable to obtain or maintain product liability insurance, we may incur substantial liabilities that could reduce our financial resources. The clinical testing and commercial use of pharmaceutical products involves significant exposure to product liability claims. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trial in humans; however, our insurance coverage may be insufficient to protect us against all product liability damages. Further, liability insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and we might not be able to obtain or maintain product liability insurance in the future on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts to protect us against product liability damages. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in decreased demand for a future product, injury to reputation, withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers, loss of revenue, costs of litigation, distraction of management and substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs. Additionally, if we are required to pay a product liability claim, we may not have sufficient financial resources to complete development or commercialization of any of our product candidates and our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Research and development involves hazardous materials and we must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. Research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, radioactive compounds and other potentially dangerous chemicals and biological agents. Although we believe our contractors' safety procedures for these materials comply with governmental standards, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. We currently have insurance, in amounts and on terms typical for companies in businesses that are similarly situated, that could cover all or a portion of a damage claim arising from our use of hazardous and other materials. However, if an accident or environmental discharge occurs, and we are held liable for any resulting damages, the associated liability could exceed our insurance coverage and our financial resources. Risks Related to Our Common Stock and Notes Payable Our stock price has been and will continue to be volatile and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. You should consider an investment in our common stock as risky and invest only if you can withstand a significant loss and wide fluctuations in the market value of your investment. We receive only limited attention by securities analysts and frequently experience an imbalance between supply and demand for our common stock. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile. Factors affecting our common stock price include: fluctuations in our operating results; announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us, our collaborators or our competitors; published reports by securities analysts; the progress of our and our collaborators' clinical trials, including our and our collaborators' ability to produce clinical supplies of our product candidates on a timely basis and in sufficient quantities to meet our clinical trial requirements; governmental regulation and changes in medical and pharmaceutical product reimbursement policies; developments in patent or other intellectual property rights; publicity concerning the discovery and development activities by our licensees; public concern as to the safety and efficacy of drugs that we and our competitors develop; our ability to meet market expectations with respect to FDA approval or the timing for FDA approval for our product candidates; and. general market conditions. Anti-takeover provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, stockholder rights plan and under Delaware law may discourage or prevent a change of control. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws and Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law could delay or prevent a change of control of us. For example, our Board of Directors, without further stockholder approval, may issue preferred stock that could delay or prevent a change of control as well as reduce the voting power of the holders of common stock, even to the extent of losing control to others. In addition, our Board of Directors has adopted a stockholder rights plan, commonly known as a "poison pill," that may delay or prevent a change of control. Substantial future sales of our common stock by us or by our existing stockholders could cause our stock price to fall. Additional equity financings or other share issuances by us could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Sales by existing stockholders of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market and the sale of shares issued in connection with strategic alliances, or the perception that such additional sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to drop. Royalty revenues received from Amgen on sales of cinacalcet HCl may not be sufficient to cover the interest and principal payments on the Secured 8.0% Notes and/or 15.5% Notes due March 30, 2017. As a result, we would have to either voluntarily make such payments out of available cash resources or risk forfeiture of certain royalty rights under the Amgen agreement. In December 2004, we completed a private placement of $175.0 million in secured 8.0% Notes due March 30, 2017. In August 2007, our subsidiary completed a private placement of $100 million of secured 15.5% notes due March 30, 2017. All of these secured notes are non-recourse to us and are secured by certain royalty and our related rights under our agreement with Amgen. Additionally, the sources for interest payments and principal repayment of the secured notes are limited to royalty and milestone payments received from Amgen. If the revenues received from Amgen are insufficient to cover the interest and other payments due under the secured notes, we would have to forfeit our rights to future royalties and other rights under the Amgen agreement unless we make the payments due out of our available cash resources. If we make the payments, our cash resources would be significantly reduced and we may not have sufficient cash resources to fund our programs and operations. The principal amount of the secured notes issued in August 2007 will increase through the issuance of additional notes in lieu of payment of cash interest until the initial class of secured notes is paid in full. If we do not make the payments due under the secured notes then we risk losing the future revenue stream from Amgen for sales of cinacalcet HCl, which could adversely affect future cash resources and we would lose rights to the technology licensed to Amgen under the Amgen agreement. Our liquidity and future cash flow may not be sufficient to cover interest payments on our 5.75% Convertible Notes due 2014 or to repay the notes at maturity. Our ability to make interest payments on and to repay at maturity or refinance our 5.75% convertible notes due 2014 will depend on our ability to maintain sufficient cash and generate future cash flow. Other than in 2007, we have never generated positive annual cash flow from our operating activities, and we may not generate or sustain positive cash flows from operations in the future. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow will depend on our ability to commercialize our proprietary product candidates in the U.S. and the ability of our partners to commercialize and successfully market our partnered products throughout the world. We cannot assure you that we, or our partners, will be successful in developing, commercializing and marketing our product candidates. Various factors such as general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory conditions may affect our and our partners' ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates and thereby limit our ability to generate future cash flow to repay our 5.75% convertible notes. Additionally, the 5.75% convertible notes provide for certain events of default, including payment defaults, breaches of covenants and certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency and reorganization. If any event of default occurs and is continuing, the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, may be declared immediately due and payable. The notes also provide that if a fundamental change occurs to our business, as defined in the note, at any time prior to the maturity of the note, then the holder shall have the right to require us to redeem the notes, or any portion thereof plus accrued interest and liquidated damages. There can be no assurance that, if any of the foregoing events were to occur, we would have the ability repay the principal amount and interest accrued under the notes and/or any additional monies owed in connection with the acceleration of the notes. Conversion of the 5.75% Convertible Notes will dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their notes. The conversion of some or all of the 5.75% convertible notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants. Changes in interest rates can affect the fair value of our investment portfolio and the debt we have issued and its interest earnings. Our interest rate risk exposure results from our investment portfolio and our secured notes. Our primary objectives in managing our investment portfolio are to preserve principal, maintain proper liquidity to meet operating needs and maximize yields. The securities we hold in our investment portfolio are subject to interest rate risk. At any time, sharp changes in interest rates can affect the fair value of the investment portfolio and its interest earnings. Currently, we do not hedge these interest rate exposures. We have established policies and procedures to manage exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. We place our investments with high quality issuers, limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer, and do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. Our 8.0% secured notes due March 30, 2017, our 15.5% secured notes due March 30, 2017, and our 5.75% convertible notes due August 7, 2014 each have a fixed interest rate. The fair value of the convertible notes is affected by changes in the interest rates and by changes in the price of our common stock. The fair values of the secured notes are affected by changes in the interest rates and by historical rates of royalty revenues from cinacalcet HCl sales. Our Auction Rate Securities (ARS) are currently illiquid and may never be saleable due to the recent deterioration of the U.S. credit and capital markets. If the U.S. capital markets, including the markets for our auction- rate securities, deteriorate further or adversely affect other investments in our portfolio, our auction-rate securities may never be saleable and our financial condition and cash flow may be adversely impacted. Our investment portfolio includes investments in certain auction rate securities or ARS. ARS are variable interest rate securities tied to short-term interest rates with nominal long-term maturities. ARS have interest rate resets through a modified Dutch auction, at predetermined short-term intervals, usually every 7, 28, 35, or 49 days. With the liquidity issues experienced in global credit and capital markets, our ARS portfolio has recently experienced multiple unsuccessful auctions as the amount of securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders. Given the unsuccessful auctions, our ARS are illiquid until there is a successful auction for them and therefore, we have classified ARS marketable securities (except Sold ARS - see below) to non-current assets as of December 31, 2007. The estimated value of our ARS holdings at December 31, 2007, was $53.3 million, which reflects $2.4 million less than our carrying value of $55.7 million. In establishing the estimated market value of our ARS, we have used the market value determined by our investment advisors. The market values were determined using a proprietary valuation model using the quality of the underlying securities or assets securing the ARS investments, the market values of comparable securities, the quality of credit enhancement (if any) applicable to the specific security, estimated time to maturity or unwinding of the arrangement, an analysis of the terms of the indentures and other factors depending on the individual ARS. In March 2008, we agreed to sell certain of our ARS investments or the Sold ARS, to one of our investment advisors for $26.0 million. The market value as of December 31, 2007 and the principal value of the Sold ARS were $24.9 million and $30.1 million, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we recognized an other-than-temporary loss of $4.1 million on the Sold ARS in the Consolidated Statement of Operations and $1.1 million is recorded as an unrealized loss in the Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss section of the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2007 on the Sold ARS. Excluding the Sold ARS, we believe that the decrease in market value on our ARS is temporary in nature due to the underlying assets securing the ARS, the AAA rating by Standard & Poors, as of December 31, 2007 and February 28, 2008, our belief that historical liquidity will return to the global credit and capital markets, and our intent and ability to hold to recovery. None of the ARS are backed by sub-prime mortgages. Accordingly, a $1.3 million unrealized loss was recorded at December 31, 2007 in Accumulated Other Comprehensive loss section of the Balance Sheet related to the ARS, excluding the Sold ARS. The market value of these ARS, excluding the Sold ARS,were estimated to be $28.4 million at December 31, 2007 and $26.4 million at February 29, 2008. 32 If uncertainties in the credit and capital markets continue, these markets deteriorate further or if we experience rating downgrades on any investments in our portfolio, including our ARS, the market value of our investment portfolio may decline further, which we may determine is an other-than-temporary impairment. This would result in a realized loss and would negatively affect our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We believe that based on our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances at December 31, 2007, the current lack of liquidity in the credit and capital markets will not have a material impact on our liquidity, cash flow, financial flexibility or ability to fund its operations in 2008. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 