ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones faced by the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial also may impair the Company’s business operations. If any of the following risks occur, the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Intense competition from traditional retail sources and the Internet may adversely affect the Company’s business. The book business is highly competitive in every channel in which Barnes & Noble competes. The Company competes with large bookstores including Borders and Books-A-Million and smaller format bookstores such as Waldenbooks. The Company faces competition with many e-commerce businesses, notably Amazon.com. The Company also faces competition from mass merchandisers, such as Wal-Mart and Costco, some of which may have greater financial and other resources than the Company. The Company’s bookstores also compete with specialty retail stores that offer books in particular subject areas, independent store operators, variety discounters, drug stores, warehouse clubs, mail-order clubs and other retailers offering books and music. In addition, the Company also faces competition from the expanding market for electronic books and digital distribution of book content. 13 Table of Contents The music and movie businesses are also highly competitive and the Company faces competition from mass merchants, discounters and electronic distribution. The store experience is geared towards the Company’s customer’s base, including a strong BluRay presence as well as a tailored, returnable product assortment. If the Company is unable to continue to open new stores, its growth may decline. The Company’s growth depends in part on its ability to open new stores and operate them profitably. The Company opened 35 stores in fiscal 2008 and expects to open approximately 15 stores in fiscal 2009. In general, the rate of expansion depends, among other things, on general economic and business conditions affecting consumer confidence and spending, the availability of desired locations and qualified management personnel, the negotiation of acceptable lease terms, and the ability to manage the operational aspects of growth. It also depends upon the availability of adequate capital, which in turn depends in large part upon cash flow generated by the Company. If stores are opened more slowly than expected, sales at new stores reach targeted levels more slowly than expected (or fail to reach targeted levels) or related overhead costs increase in excess of expected levels, the Company’s ability to successfully implement its expansion strategy would be adversely affected. In addition, the Company expects to open new Barnes & Noble stores in certain markets in which the Company is already operating stores, which could adversely affect sales at those existing stores. Furthermore, increases in the complexity of the Company’s business could place a significant strain on its management, operations, technical performance, financial resources, and internal financial control and reporting functions, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to manage it effectively. The Company’s current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support and effectively manage its future operations, especially as the Company employs personnel in multiple geographic locations. The Company may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel, which may limit its growth. If any of this were to occur, it could damage the Company’s reputation, limit growth, negatively affect operating results and harm the Company’s business. The Company faces various risks as an Internet retailer. The Company may require additional capital in the future to sustain or grow its online business. Business risks related to its online business include risks associated with the need to keep pace with rapid technological change, Internet security risks, risks of system failure or inadequacy, government regulation and legal uncertainties with respect to the Internet, risks related to data privacy, and collection of sales or other taxes by one or more states or foreign jurisdictions. If any of these risks materializes, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. 14 Table of Contents The Company faces the risk of a shift in consumer spending patterns to e-content. As technology evolves and consumers shift spending patterns to e-content, the Company may enter new markets in which it has limited experience. The offering of e-content may present new and difficult challenges. The Company’s gross margin of e-content products may be lower than its traditional product lines and the Company may not recover its investments in this space. These challenges may negatively affect the Company’s operating results. The Company faces data security risks with respect to personal information. The Company’s business involves the receipt and storage of personal information about customers and employees. The Company’s use of personal information is regulated at the international, federal and state levels. Privacy and information security laws and regulations change, and compliance with them may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes and the development of new processes. If the Company shall fail to comply with these laws and regulations, it could be subjected to legal risk. In addition, even if the Company fully complies with all laws and regulations and even though it has taken significant steps to protect personal information, the Company could experience a data security breach and its reputation could be damaged, possibly resulting in lost future sales or decreased usage of the Company’s credit card products. On August 5, 2008, eleven individuals were charged with, among other things, identity theft. A number of these individuals subsequently pleaded guilty to various charges. Barnes & Noble was listed as one of several retailers that were targeted by these hackers. The Company reviewed this matter and provided information to the authorities in connection with their investigation. The Company’s costs of doing business could increase as a result of changes in federal, state or local laws or regulations. Changes in federal, state or local laws or regulations, including but not limited to laws related to employment, wages, data privacy and information security, taxes, products and product safety could increase the Company’s costs of doing business. Changes in state sales and other tax collection regulations could harm the Company’s business. While Barnes & Noble.com is currently collecting sales tax in a majority of states and the Company collects sales tax on the vast majority of its products and services, the Company receives communications from time to time from various states regarding the applicability of state sales tax to sales made to customers in their respective states prior to the commencement of sales tax collection or otherwise. While management believes that the accompanying financial statements reflect the best current estimate of any potential liability in this area, there can be no assurance that the outcome of any discussions with any state taxing authority will not result in the payment of state sales taxes for prior periods, or that the amount of any such payments will not be materially in excess of any liability currently recorded. In addition, changes in state sales and other tax collection regulations related to downloadable content could affect the Company’s business. 15 Table of Contents If the Company is unable to renew or enter into new leases on favorable terms, its revenue growth may decline. Substantially all of the Company’s stores are located in leased premises. If the cost of leasing existing stores increases, the Company cannot assure that it will be able to maintain its existing store locations as leases expire. In addition, the Company may not be able to enter into new leases on favorable terms or at all, or it may not be able to locate suitable alternative sites or additional sites for new store expansion in a timely manner. The Company’s revenues and earnings may decline if the Company fails to maintain existing store locations, enter into new leases, locate alternative sites or find additional sites for new store expansion. The Company’s business is dependent on the overall economic environment and consumer spending patterns. Sales are primarily dependent upon discretionary consumer spending, which is affected by the overall economic environment, consumer confidence and other factors beyond the Company’s control. In addition, sales are dependent in part on the strength of new release products which are controlled by vendors. The recent economic downturn has led to declines in consumer traffic and spending patterns, adversely impacting the Company’s financial performance. A continuation or further decline of the current economic environment may further erode consumer spending, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, as well as its ability to fund its growth or its strategic business initiatives. The Company faces the risk of disruption of vendor relationships and/or supply chain. The products that the Company sells originate from a wide variety of domestic and international vendors. During fiscal 2008, the Company’s five largest suppliers accounted for approximately 49 percent of its merchandise purchased. While the Company believes that its relationships with its vendors are strong, vendors may modify the terms of these relationships due to general economic conditions or otherwise. A significant unfavorable change in the Company’s relationships with key suppliers could materially adversely affect its revenue and gross profit. In addition, any significant change in the payment terms that the Company has with its key suppliers could adversely affect its financial condition and liquidity. The Company’s business is highly seasonal. The Company’s business is highly seasonal, with sales generally highest in the fourth quarter and lowest in the first quarter. During fiscal 2008, 32% of sales and 98% of operating income were generated in the fourth quarter. The Company’s results of operations depend significantly upon the holiday selling season in the fourth quarter. Less than satisfactory net sales for such period could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations for the year and may not be sufficient to cover any losses which may be incurred in the first three quarters of the year. The Company’s results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which could affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter depending upon several factors, some of which are beyond the Company’s control. These factors include the timing of new product releases, the timing of new store openings and shifts in the timing of certain promotions. These and other factors could affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, and this makes the prediction of the Company’s financial results on a quarterly basis difficult. Also, it is possible that the Company’s quarterly financial results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. 16 Table of Contents The Company’s business relies on certain key personnel. Management believes that the Company’s continued success will depend to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of Leonard Riggio, Chairman, Stephen Riggio, Chief Executive Officer, Mitchell S. Klipper, Chief Operating Officer, Joseph J. Lombardi, Chief Financial Officer, and William J. Lynch, Jr., President of Barnes & Noble.com, as well as certain other key officers of the Company and its subsidiaries. The loss of the services of any of these key officers could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company does not maintain “key man” life insurance on any of its officers. The Company may engage in acquisitions which, among other things, could negatively impact its business if it fails to successfully complete and integrate them. To enhance its efforts to grow and compete, the Company may engage in acquisitions. Any future acquisitions are subject to the Company’s ability to negotiate favorable terms for them. Accordingly, the Company cannot assure that future acquisitions will be completed. In addition, to facilitate future acquisitions, the Company may take actions that could dilute the equity interests of its stockholders, increase its debt or cause it to assume contingent liabilities, all of which may have a detrimental effect on the price of its common stock. Finally, if any acquisitions are not successfully integrated with the Company’s business, the Company’s ongoing operations could be adversely affected. The Company received inquiries by the SEC and the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York with respect to its option grant practices. In July 2006, the SEC commenced an informal inquiry into the Company’s stock option granting practices, and in August 2006, the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York also requested information on this subject. A Special Committee appointed by the Company’s Board of Directors, consisting of Patricia Higgins, reviewed all of the stock option grants by the Company and the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Barnes & Noble.com, during the period from 1996 through 2006 and engaged independent outside counsel and an independent forensic auditor to assist in this matter. On April 2, 2007, the Special Committee presented its findings and recommendations to the Company’s Board of Directors, as reported in the Company’s Form 8-K filed April 4, 2007. The Company does not know what further actions the SEC or the Office of the U.S. Attorney may take and what, if any, actions may be required by the Company with regard to these two inquiries. 17 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 