Risk Factors You should carefully review and consider the following risks, as well as all other information contained in this Annual Report or incorporated herein by reference, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements, before you decide to purchase any shares of our common stock. The following risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are currently unaware or which we believe are not material could also nevertheless materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. In any case, the value of the shares of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or a portion of your investment in such shares. To the extent any of the information contained in this Annual Report constitutes forward-looking statements or information, the risk factors set forth below must be considered cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause our actual results for various financial reporting periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on our behalf and could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. See also, “Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” in Item 7. Item 1A. Risks Related to Our Current Financial Condition We have discontinued substantially all of our operating activities. Our limited operations in 2011 consisted of administrative tasks related to shareholder and creditor issues relating to our discontinued operations. During 2008 we sold or closed all our PET imaging centers and sold or terminated our radiation therapy projects that were in development. We do not currently have a plan for any future operations. Until such time as we develop a new business, if ever, our revenues, if any, will not be significant. The capital requirements associated with developing a new business will be substantial and will require additional outside financing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue as an active corporation. We have a history of losses from continuing operations and do not have sufficient working capital, are in default on all of our debt obligations, and may seek protection under available bankruptcy laws. Our liabilities at December 31, 2011 approximate $4.3 million, as compared to approximately $3.6 million at December 31, 2010. We do not have sufficient capital to satisfy any such debt or obligations. Our financial distress and significant obligations raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue our operations and our efforts to restructure our business. If we are unable to resolve outstanding creditor claims, we may have no other alternative than to seek protection under available bankruptcy laws. The loss of our executive officers or key personnel would adversely affect our business. Our ability to restructure our business will be dependent on the services of our current executive officers. If we are unable to compensate our existing or future executives, we may lack the required leadership to restructure our business. A successful liability claim against us would harm our business. Prior to the discontinuation of the operation of our PET imaging centers, we maintained commercial general liability insurance in the amount of $1 million per incident and $2 million in the aggregate, excess liability insurance in the amount of $5 million per incident and in the aggregate, and medical professional liability insurance in the amount of $3 million per incident and $10 million in the aggregate. At an annual cost of approximately $473,000 we were unable to maintain such coverage, and all of such coverage was cancelled when we terminated our PET imaging operations in 2008. 4 While we have not been subjected to any claims to date, we do not know if any claims may be asserted against us in the future arising from the use of the PET imaging systems at our PET imaging centers. We will be unable to defend any such claim and a successful claim against could materially harm us. Risks Related to our Securities and Capital Structure We are not in compliance with rules requiring the adoption of certain corporate governance measures. This may result in shareholders having limited protections against interested director transactions, conflicts of interest and similar matters. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rule changes proposed and enacted by the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market as a result of Sarbanes-Oxley requires the implementation of various measures relating to corporate governance. These measures are designed to enhance the integrity of corporate management and the securities markets. Some of these new requirements are reflected in the NASDAQ listing requirements some of which we have not yet adopted due to limited personnel and funds. As we only have one member of our Board of Directors, we are not in compliance with the requirement relating to maintain an audit committee consisting of all independent Board members and the requirement to have independent members on the Board of Directors. We have not established a Compensation Committee. We are not yet in compliance with requirements relating to the distribution to shareholders of annual and interim reports, solicitation of proxies, the holding of shareholders meetings, quorum requirements for such meetings and the rights of shareholders to vote on certain matters. Furthermore, until we comply with such corporate governance measures, the absence of such standards of corporate governance may leave our shareholders without protections against interested director transactions, conflicts of interest and similar matters. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. In addition, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our operating results could be harmed. We are required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires increased control over financial reporting requirements, including annual management assessments of the effectiveness of such internal controls. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. 5 We do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, to finance our business activities and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Although there are only a small number of shares of our preferred stock outstanding, the holders of our preferred stock have rights senior to the holders of our common stock with respect to any dividends. The liability of our officers and directors is limited. The applicable provisions of the New York Business Corporation Law and our Certificate of Incorporation limit the liability of our officers and directors to the Company and our shareholders for monetary damages for breaches of their fiduciary duties, with certain exceptions, and for other specified acts or omissions of such persons. In addition, the applicable provisions of the New York Business Corporation Law and of our Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws provide for indemnification of such persons under certain circumstances. In addition, we entered into an indemnification agreement with our Chief Executive Officer which provides for expanded indemnification rights for her. As a result of the foregoing, shareholders may be unable to recover damages against our officers and directors for actions taken by them which constitute negligence, gross negligence or a violation of their fiduciary duties and may otherwise discourage or deter our shareholders from suing our officers or directors even though such actions, if successful, might otherwise benefit us and our shareholders. Notwithstanding the foregoing, insofar as indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities Act may be permitted to our directors, officers and controlling persons pursuant to the foregoing provisions or agreement, or otherwise, we have been advised that, in the opinion of the SEC, any such indemnification is against public policy as expressed in the securities laws and is, therefore, unenforceable. The limited public trading market may cause volatility in the price of our common stock. Our common stock is currently traded on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”) under the symbol SKCO. The quotation of our common stock on the OTCBB does not assure that a meaningful, consistent and liquid trading market currently exists, and in recent years such market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of many smaller companies like ours. Our common stock is thus subject to this volatility. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that such sales might occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Approximately 99% of our outstanding shares of common stock are freely tradable securities and trading volumes for our shares of common stock is limited. During 2011 the shares of our common stock traded on the OTCBB at prices ranging from a low of $0.015 per share to a high of $0.03 per share, and in 2010 the shares of our common stock traded at prices ranging from a low of $0.014 per share to a high of $0.05 per share. The market price of the shares of our common stock, like the securities of many other over-the-counter publicly traded companies, may be highly volatile. Factors such as changes in applicable laws and governmental regulations, loss of key company executives, sales of large numbers of shares of our common stock by existing shareholders and general market and economic conditions may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, U.S. stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in the past. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many medical diagnostic imaging and other health care companies, for reasons frequently unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 6 The OTCBB is an inter-dealer, over-the-counter market that provides significantly less liquidity than NASDAQ, and quotes for stocks included on the OTCBB are not listed in the financial sections of newspapers, as are those for the NASDAQ Stock Market. The trading price of our common stock is expected to be subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results, changes in analysts’ earnings estimates, general conditions in the industry in which we operate, our distressed financial condition, and other factors. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, may have a material or adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Trading in our common stock is limited, so investors may not be able to sell as many of their shares as they want at prevailing prices. Shares of our common stock are traded on the OTCBB on a very limited basis with approximately 87,000 shares traded in 2011 and approximately 353,000 shares traded during the year 2010, or an average of approximately 7,250 shares per month in 2011 and an average of 29,000 shares per month in 2010. If limited trading in our common stock continues, it may be difficult for investors who purchase shares of our common stock to sell such shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. Also, the sale of a large block of our common stock could depress the market price of our common stock to a greater degree than a company that typically has a higher volume of trading of its securities. We cannot predict whether an active market for our common stock will develop in the future. In the absence of an active trading market: ·Investors may have difficulty buying and selling or obtaining market quotations; ·Market visibility for our common stock may be limited; and ·Lack of visibility for our common stock may have a depressive effect on its market price. Penny stock regulations may impose certain restrictions on marketability of the Company’s securities. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. As a result, our common stock is subject to rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally those with assets in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouse). For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of such securities and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the purchase. Additionally, for any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a risk disclosure document mandated by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. The broker-dealer must also disclose the commission payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer’s presumed control over the market. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Consequently, the “penny stock” rules may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may affect the ability of investors to sell our securities in the secondary market and the price at which such purchasers can sell any such securities. Shareholders should be aware that, according to the SEC, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include: 7 ·Control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; ·Manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; ·“Boiler room” practices involving high pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; ·Excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differentials and markups by selling broker-dealers; and ·The wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the inevitable collapse of those prices with consequent investor losses. Purchasers of penny stocks may have certain legal remedies available to them in the event the obligations of the broker-dealer from whom the penny stock was purchased violates or fails to comply with the above obligations or in the event that other state or federal securities laws are violated in connection with the purchase and sale of such securities. Such rights include the right to rescind the purchase of such securities and recover the purchase price paid for them. Additional authorized shares of our common stock available for issuance may adversely affect the market. We are authorized to issue 25,000,000 shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2011, there are 8,008,261 shares issued and outstanding. The total number of shares of our common stock issued and outstanding does not include shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options or warrants or shares reserved for issuance under the Company’s 1999 Long-Term Incentive Stock Option Plan (the “Stock Option Plan”). As of December 31, 2011, the Company had outstanding stock options and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1,842,500 shares of our common stock. We have reserved shares of our common stock for issuance in connection with the potential exercise of such options and warrants. To the extent additional shares of our common stock are issued or options and warrants are exercised, investors will experience further dilution. In addition, in the event that any future financing should be in the form of, or be convertible into or exchangeable for, equity securities, upon the issuance of such equity securities, our shareholders will experience additional dilution. There are many circumstances, including equity financings, acquisitions or other business combinations, and other transactions between the Company and its vendors, suppliers, employees, consultants, and others, in which our management can approve the issuance of additional shares of our common stock without obtaining shareholder approval for such issuances. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market. From time to time, certain of our shareholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of our common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, subject to certain limitations. All of the 8,008,261 shares of our common stock outstanding at December 31, 2011 have been issued for more than six months. 8 In general, pursuant to Rule 144, a stockholder (or stockholders whose shares are aggregated) who has satisfied a six-month holding period may, under certain circumstances, sell within any three-month period a number of securities which does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of common stock or the average weekly trading volume of the class during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale. Rule 144 also permits, under certain circumstances, the sale of securities, without any limitation, by a non-affiliate of the Company that has satisfied a six-month holding period. Any substantial sale of our common stock pursuant to Rule 144 may have an adverse effect on the market price of our publicly traded securities. There are certain provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws that may entrench management and make their removal from office more difficult. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize the Board of Directors to issue preferred stock in classes or series, and to determine voting, redemption and conversion rights and other rights related to such class or series of preferred stock that, in some circumstances, if approved by our Board, could have the effect of preventing a merger, tender offer or other takeover attempt which the Board of Directors opposes. Such provisions could also exert a negative influence on the value of the shares of our common stock and of a shareholder’s ability to receive the highest price for the shares of our common stock owned by them in a transaction that may be hindered by the operation of these provisions. In the event of the issuance of any shares of our preferred stock which contain any of the above features, such features may serve to entrench management and make their removal more difficult. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 