ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones faced by the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial also may impair the Company’s business operations. If any of the following risks occur, the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Intense competition from traditional retail sources and the Internet may adversely affect the Company’s business. The book business is highly competitive in every channel in which Barnes & Noble competes. The Company competes with large bookstores including Borders and Books-A-Million and smaller format bookstores such as Waldenbooks. The Company faces competition with many e-commerce businesses, notably Amazon.com. The Company also faces competition from mass merchandisers, such as Wal-Mart and Costco, some of which may have greater financial and other resources than the Company. The Company’s bookstores also compete with specialty retail stores that offer books in particular subject areas, independent single store operators, variety discounters, drug stores, warehouse clubs, mail-order clubs and other retailers offering books and music. In addition, the Company’s bookstores may also face competition from the expanding market for electronic books and digital distribution of book content. The music and movie businesses are also highly competitive and the Company faces competition from large established music chains, established movie chains, specialty retail stores, e-commerce businesses, movie rental stores, discount stores, warehouse clubs and mass merchandisers. In addition, consumers receive television and mail-order offers and have access to mail-order clubs. The largest mail-order clubs are affiliated with major manufacturers of pre-recorded music and may have advantageous marketing relationships with their affiliates. In addition, the Company faces competition from the growing popularity of music downloading services. If the Company were unable to continue to open new stores, its growth may decline. The Company’s growth depends in part on its ability to open new stores and operate them profitably. The Company opened 32 stores in fiscal 2006 and expects to open between 35 and 40 stores in fiscal 2007. In general, the rate of expansion depends, among other things, on general economic and business conditions affecting consumer confidence and spending, the availability of desired locations and qualified management personnel, the negotiation of acceptable lease terms, and the ability to manage the operational aspects of growth. It also depends upon the availability of adequate capital, which in turn depends in large part upon cash flow generated by the Company. The Company’s future results will depend, among other things, on its success in implementing an expansion strategy. If stores are opened more slowly than expected, sales at new stores reach targeted levels more slowly than expected (or fail to reach targeted levels) or related overhead costs increase in excess of expected levels, the Company’s ability to successfully implement its expansion strategy would be adversely affected. In addition, the Company expects to open new Barnes & Noble stores in certain markets in which the Company is already operating stores, which could adversely affect sales at those existing stores. Table of Contents Furthermore, such expansion increases the complexity of the Company’s business and could place a significant strain on its management, operations, technical performance, financial resources, and internal financial control and reporting functions, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to manage it effectively. The Company’s current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support and effectively manage its future operations, especially as the Company employs personnel in multiple geographic locations. The Company may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel, which may limit its growth. If any of this were to occur, it could damage the Company’s reputation, limit growth, negatively affect operating results and harm the Company’s business. There can be no assurance that the Company will sustain its rate of store growth or that it will achieve and sustain acceptable levels of profitability, particularly as other leading national and regional book, music and movie store chains develop and open stores. The Company faces various risks as an Internet retailer. The Company may require additional capital in the future to sustain or grow its online business. Business risks related to its online business include risks associated with the need to keep pace with rapid technological change, Internet security risks, risks of system failure or inadequacy, government regulation and legal uncertainties with respect to the Internet, and collection of sales or other taxes by one or more states or foreign jurisdictions. If any of these risks materializes, it could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. Changes in state sales and other tax collection regulations could harm the Company’s Internet business. While Barnes & Noble.com is currently collecting sales tax in a majority of states, the Company receives communications from time to time from various states regarding the applicability of state sales tax to sales made to customers in their respective states prior to the commencement of sales tax collection. While management believes that the accompanying financial statements reflect the best current estimate of any potential liability in this area, there can be no assurance that the outcome of any discussions with any state taxing authority will not result in the payment of state sales taxes for prior periods, or that the amount of any such payments will not be materially in excess of any liability currently recorded. If the Company is unable to renew or enter into new leases on favorable terms, its revenue growth may decline. Substantially all of the Company’s stores are located in leased premises. If the cost of leasing existing stores increases, the Company cannot assure that it will be able to maintain its existing store locations as leases expire. In addition, the Company may not be able to enter into new leases on favorable terms or at all, or it may not be able to locate suitable alternative sites or additional sites for new store expansion in a timely manner. The Company’s revenues and earnings may decline if the Company fails to maintain existing store locations, enter into new leases, locate alternative sites or find additional sites for new store expansion. Table of Contents The Company’s business is dependent on consumer spending patterns. Sales of books, music and movies have historically been dependent upon discretionary consumer spending, which may be affected by general economic conditions, consumer confidence and other factors beyond the Company’s control. In addition, sales are dependent in part on the strength of new release products which are controlled by vendors. A decline in consumer spending on books, music and movies, or in the strength of new product releases, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations and its ability to fund its expansion strategy. The Company’s business is highly seasonal. The Company’s business is highly seasonal, with sales generally highest in the fourth quarter and lowest in the third quarter. During fiscal 2006, 36% of sales and 86% of operating income were generated in the fourth quarter. The Company’s results of operations depend significantly upon the holiday selling season in the fourth quarter. Less than satisfactory net sales for such period could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations for the year and may not be sufficient to cover any losses which may be incurred in the first three quarters of the year. The Company’s results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which could affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter depending upon several factors, some of which are beyond the Company’s control. These factors include the timing of new product releases, the timing of new store openings and shifts in the timing of certain promotions. These and other factors could affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, and this makes the prediction of the Company’s financial results on a quarterly basis difficult. Also, it is possible that the Company’s quarterly financial results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. The Company’s business relies on certain key personnel. Management believes that the Company’s continued success will depend to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of Leonard Riggio, Chairman, Stephen Riggio, Chief Executive Officer, Mitchell S. Klipper, Chief Operating Officer, Joseph J. Lombardi, Chief Financial Officer, and Marie J. Toulantis, Chief Executive Officer of Barnes & Noble.com, as well as certain other key officers of the Company and its subsidiaries. The loss of the services of any of these key officers could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company does not maintain “key man” life insurance on any of its officers. The Company may engage in acquisitions which could negatively impact its business if it fails to successfully complete and integrate them. To enhance its efforts to grow and compete, the Company may engage in acquisitions. Any future acquisitions are subject to the Company’s ability to negotiate favorable terms for them. Accordingly, the Company cannot assure that future acquisitions will be completed. In addition, to facilitate future acquisitions, the Company may take actions that could dilute the equity interests of its stockholders, increase its debt or cause it to assume contingent liabilities, all of which may have a detrimental effect on the price of its common stock. Finally, if any acquisitions are not successfully integrated with the Company’s business, the Company’s ongoing operations could be adversely affected. The Company is subject to inquiries by the SEC and the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York with respect to its option grant practices. In July 2006, the SEC commenced an informal inquiry into the Company’s stock option granting practices, and the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York has also requested information on this subject. A Special Committee appointed by the Company’s Board of Directors, consisting of Patricia Higgins, reviewed the Company’s historical stock option practices and engaged independent outside counsel and an independent forensic auditor to assist in this matter. On April 2, 2007, the Special Committee presented its findings and recommendations to the Company’s Board of Directors. See “Stock Option Review” in Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the Annual Report (as defined in Item G below). The Company and the Special Committee are continuing to cooperate with the SEC and the Office of the U.S. Attorney. The Company does not know what further actions the SEC or the Office of the U.S. Attorney may take and what, if any, actions may be required by the Company in order to resolve these inquiries. Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 