Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones faced by the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial also may impair the Company’s business operations. If any of the following risks occur, the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Unless otherwise specified or the context otherwise requires, references below to (1) “the Company” refer to Barnes & Noble, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including Barnes & Noble College Booksellers, LLC, (2) “Barnes & Noble” refer to Barnes & Noble, Inc. and its subsidiaries excluding Barnes & Noble College Booksellers, LLC, (3) “B&N College” refer to Barnes & Noble College Booksellers, LLC and (4) “NOOK®” refer to NOOK 1st Edition™, NOOK Wi-Fi 1st Edition™, NOOK Color™, NOOK Simple Touch ™, NOOK Simple Touch with GlowLight™ and/or NOOK Tablet™ Reader devices. The Company’s businesses are dependent on the overall economic environment and consumer spending patterns. The Company’s businesses have been adversely impacted by the economic downturn in the United States over the last several years which, among other things, has decreased discretionary consumer spending. A deterioration of the current economic environment could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and operating results, as well as the Company’s ability to fund its growth or its strategic business initiatives. Barnes & Noble’s sales are primarily dependent upon discretionary consumer spending, which is affected by the overall economic environment, consumer confidence and other factors beyond its control. In addition, Barnes & Noble’s sales are dependent in part on the strength of new release products which are controlled by publishers and other suppliers. The economic downturn over the last several years has led to declines in consumer traffic and spending patterns, adversely impacting Barnes & Noble’s financial performance. The effect of the economic downturn on other retailers in shopping malls in which Barnes & Noble is located also may adversely affect Barnes & Noble. For example, if the downturn leads to one or more vacancies in a shopping mall, traffic to its store in the mall may decrease. 22 Table of Contents B&N College’s sales are also affected by the overall economic environment, including as a result of reductions in funding levels at colleges and universities, although historically the effect has been less significant than in the Barnes & Noble retail stores. Students also may spend less on textbooks and other general merchandise in a difficult economic environment. B&N College’s business is also dependent on, among other things, college and university funding, government grants and funding, which may be negatively impacted in an economic downturn. The economic downturn has adversely impacted B&N College’s business during the past fiscal year. Because of the Company’s existing penetration of attractive retail locations and the maturity of the market for traditional retail stores, the Company’s sales or net income may decline unless it successfully implements its business strategies. The Company’s core business is its operation of Barnes & Noble retail stores across the United States, and it derived over a majority of its sales from Barnes & Noble retail stores in its most recent fiscal year. Management generally believes that the Company’s retail stores are located in attractive geographic markets, and generally does not have a strategy to open retail stores in new geographic markets or to expand the total number of retail stores, and may close more retail stores than it opens. Management’s strategies are subject to the risks described herein and elsewhere, and may be subject to other risks that have not yet been identified, and management cannot make assurances that its business strategies will be successful. Increases in the complexity of the Company’s businesses could place a significant strain on its management, operations, performance and resources. Increases in the complexity of the Company’s business could place a significant strain on its management, operations, technical performance, financial resources, and internal financial control and reporting functions. These increases in complexity include both the increase in the size and scope of the Company’s operations as a result of the acquisition of B&N College and the expansion of the Company’s digital strategy. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to manage increases in the complexity of its businesses effectively. The Company’s current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support and effectively manage its future operations, especially as it employs personnel in multiple geographic locations. The Company may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel, which may limit its growth. If any of this were to occur, it could damage the Company’s reputation, limit growth, negatively affect operating results and harm its business. The Company faces the risk of disruption of supplier relationships and/or supply chain. The products that the Company sells originate from a wide variety of domestic and international vendors. During fiscal 2012, Barnes & Noble’s five largest suppliers accounted for approximately 45 percent of the dollar value of merchandise purchased. During fiscal 2012, B&N College’s five largest suppliers accounted for approximately 55 percent of its merchandise purchased. While the Company believes that its relationships with its suppliers are strong, most suppliers may modify the terms of these relationships due to general economic conditions or otherwise. The Company does not have long-term arrangements with most of its suppliers to guarantee availability of merchandise, content, components or services, particular payment terms or the extension of credit limits. If the Company’s current suppliers were to stop selling merchandise, content, components or services to it on acceptable terms, including as a result of one or more supplier bankruptcies due to poor economic conditions, the Company may be unable to procure the same merchandise, content, components or services from other suppliers in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, certain of our merchandise, including electronic readers, are sourced, directly or indirectly, from outside the 23 Table of Contents United States, including, without limitation, from suppliers in China. Political or financial instability, merchandise quality issues, product safety concerns, trade restrictions, work stoppages, tariffs, foreign currency exchange rates, transportation capacity and costs, inflation, civil unrest, natural disasters, outbreaks of pandemics and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control and could disrupt our supply of foreign-sourced merchandise and/or adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, the Barnes & Noble and B&N College businesses are each dependent on the continued supply of trade books, in the case of Barnes & Noble, and textbooks, in the case of B&N College. The publishing industry generally has suffered due, among other things, to changing consumer preferences away from the print medium and due to the difficult economic climate. A significant disruption in this industry generally could adversely impact the Company’s business. A significant unfavorable change in the Company’s relationships with key suppliers could materially adversely affect its sales and profits. In addition, any significant change in the payment terms that the Company has with its key suppliers could adversely affect its financial condition and liquidity. The Company’s businesses rely on certain key personnel Management believes that the Company’s continued success will depend to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of Leonard Riggio, Chairman, William J. Lynch Jr., Chief Executive Officer, Mitchell S. Klipper, Chief Executive Officer-Barnes & Noble Retail, Michael P. Huseby, Chief Financial Officer, Max J. Roberts, President of B&N College, and Eugene V. DeFelice, Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, as well as certain other key officers of the Company and its subsidiaries including Barnes & Noble.com. The loss of the services of these key officers could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company does not maintain “key man” life insurance on any of its officers. The Company’s businesses could be adversely impacted if it is unsuccessful in making and integrating acquisitions it has made or may decide to pursue. To enhance the Company’s efforts to grow and compete, from time to time it has engaged in acquisitions and entered into joint ventures, and it may engage in acquisitions or enter into joint ventures in the future. Any future acquisitions are subject to the Company’s ability to identify attractive opportunities and to negotiate favorable terms for them. Accordingly, the Company cannot make assurances that future acquisitions will be completed, or that if completed, they will be successful. These transactions may create risks such as: (1) disruption of the Company’s ongoing business, including loss of management focus on existing businesses; (2) the dilution of the equity interest of the Company’s stockholders; (3) problems retaining key personnel; (4) increased debt to finance any transaction and additional operating losses, debt and expenses of the businesses the Company acquires; (5) the difficulty of integrating a new company’s accounting, financial reporting, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; (6) the difficulty of implementing at acquired companies the controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company; and (7) potential unknown liabilities associated with an acquired company. In addition, valuations supporting the Company’s acquisitions could change rapidly given the current global economic climate. The Company could determine that such valuations have experienced impairments or other-than-temporary declines in fair value which could adversely impact its financial condition. 24 Table of Contents The Company’s businesses are seasonal. The Company’s businesses are seasonal. For the Company’s businesses other than B&N College, sales are generally highest in the third fiscal quarter and lowest in the second and fourth fiscal quarters. For fiscal 2012, 33% of sales and 102% of operating income of B&N Retail were generated in its third fiscal quarter. Operating results in the Company’s businesses other than B&N College depend significantly upon the holiday selling season in the third fiscal quarter. The B&N College business is also seasonal, with sales generally highest in the second and third fiscal quarters, when college students generally purchase textbooks for the upcoming semesters, and lowest in the first and fourth fiscal quarters. Less than satisfactory net sales for any fiscal quarter could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or operating results for the year and may not be sufficient to cover any losses which may be incurred in the other fiscal quarters of the year. The Company’s results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which could affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter depending upon several factors, some of which are beyond its control. These factors include the timing of new product releases, the timing of store openings or closings, the addition or termination of B&N College contracts to manage bookstores for colleges and universities, the timing of the start of college and university semesters, shifts in the timing of certain promotions and the effect of impairments on the Company’s assets. These and other factors could affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, and this makes the prediction of the Company’s financial results on a quarterly basis difficult. Also, it is possible that the Company’s quarterly financial results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. The Company may not be able to adequately protect its intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing upon intellectual property rights of third parties. The Company regards its trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology and similar intellectual property as important to its success, and it relies on trademark, copyright and patent law, domain name regulations, trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements to protect its proprietary rights. Laws and regulations may not adequately protect its trademarks and similar proprietary rights. The Company may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or diminish the value of its trademarks and other proprietary rights. The Company may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of its proprietary rights. The protection of the Company’s intellectual property may require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, the steps it takes to protect its intellectual property may not adequately protect its rights or prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating its proprietary rights. The Company also cannot be certain that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology or other intellectual property rights. Other parties also may claim that the Company infringes their proprietary rights. Because of the changes in Internet commerce, the electronic reader and digital content business, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible that certain components of our products and business methods may unknowingly infringe existing patents or intellectual property rights of others. Because the Company’s products include complex technology, much of which is acquired from suppliers through the purchase of components or licensing of software, the Company and its suppliers and customers are and have been involved in 25 Table of Contents or have been impacted by assertions, including both requests for licenses and litigation, regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. The Company has been and is currently subject to, and expects to continue to be subject to, claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement by it of the intellectual property rights of third parties. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, may result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against the Company prohibiting the Company from marketing or selling certain products or the payment of damages. The Company may need to obtain licenses from third parties who allege that it has infringed their rights, but such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to the Company, or at all. In addition, the Company may not be able to obtain or utilize on terms that are favorable to it, or at all, licenses or other rights with respect to intellectual property it does not own in providing services to other businesses and individuals under commercial agreements. These risks have been amplified by the increase in third parties whose primary business appears to be to assert such claims. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against the Company by any third party is successful, if the Company is required to indemnify a customer with respect to a claim against the customer, or if the Company is unable to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, the Company’s business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. The Company’s digital content offerings, including NOOK®, depend in part on effective digital rights management technology to control access to digital content. If the digital rights management technology that it uses is compromised or otherwise malfunctions, the Company could be subject to claims, and content providers may be unwilling to include their content in its service. The Company faces data security risks with respect to personal information. The Company’s business involves the receipt and storage of personal information about customers and employees. The Company’s use of personal information is regulated at the international, federal and state levels. Privacy and information security laws and regulations change from time to time, and compliance with them may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes and the development of new processes. If the Company fails to comply with these laws and regulations, it could be subjected to legal risk. In addition, even if the Company fully complies with all laws and regulations and even though the Company has taken significant steps to protect personal information, the Company could experience a data security breach and its reputation could be damaged, possibly resulting in lost future sales or decreased usage of credit and debit card products. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, the Company may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. A party that is able to circumvent the Company’s security measures could misappropriate the Company or its users’ proprietary information and cause interruption in its operations. Any compromise of the Company’s data security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws or standards, significant legal and financial exposure and a loss of confidence in its security measures, which could harm the business. Data security breaches may also result from non-technical means, for example, actions by an employee. 26 Table of Contents The concentration of the Company’s capital stock ownership with certain executive officers, directors and their affiliates will limit its stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and may involve other risks. Leonard Riggio, the Company’s Founder and Chairman, and Stephen Riggio, an employee of the Company and formerly the Company’s Vice Chairman, are brothers and together are currently the beneficial owners of an aggregate of approximately 30.6% of the Company’s outstanding capital stock as of April 28, 2012, a majority of which is beneficially owned solely by Leonard Riggio. This concentrated control may limit the ability of the Company’s other stockholders to influence corporate matters and, as a result, the Company may take actions with which its other stockholders do not agree. Leonard Riggio is also the beneficial owner of a note issued in connection with the acquisition of B&N College and therefore one of the Company’s largest creditors. In addition, there may be risks related to the relationships Leonard Riggio, Stephen Riggio and other members of the Riggio family have with the various entities with which the Company has related party transactions. In addition, Liberty Media, holds 204,000 shares of the Company’s Series J Preferred Stock (Preferred Stock), which are convertible, at the option of the holder thereof, into shares of Common Stock representing approximately 16.6% of the Common Stock outstanding as of August 29, 2011, based on the current conversion rate. The holders of the Preferred Stock vote on an as-converted basis with holders of Common Stock on manners submitted to a vote of Common Stock and have the right, voting as a separate class, to elect two directors to the board of directors of the Company, subject to reduction upon certain ownership requirements ceasing to be met. Liberty Media also has veto rights over certain matters relating to the Company and its subsidiaries and certain rights upon a change of control of the Company. The Company’s businesses could be impacted by changes in international, federal, state or local laws, rules or regulations. Changes in international, federal, state or local laws, rules or regulations, including but not limited to laws, rules or regulations related to employment, wages, data privacy, information security, intellectual property, taxes, products, product safety, health and safety, and imports and exports, could increase the Company’s costs of doing business or otherwise impact the Company’s business. Changes in sales and other tax collection regulations could harm the Company’s businesses. Barnes & Noble and B&N College collected sales tax on the majority of the products and services that they sold in their respective prior fiscal years that were subject to sales tax, and they generally have continued the same policies for sales tax within the current fiscal year. While management believes that the financial statements included elsewhere herein reflect management’s best current estimate of any potential additional sales tax liability based on current discussions with taxing authorities, there can be no assurance that the outcome of any discussions with any taxing authority will not result in the payment of sales taxes for prior periods or otherwise, or that the amount of any such payments will not be materially in excess of any liability currently recorded. In the future, the Company’s businesses may be subject to claims for not collecting sales tax on the products and services it currently sells for which sales tax is not collected. The Company’s announced evaluation of strategic exploratory work may result in the sale of the NOOK digital business or other strategic transaction. On January 5, 2012, the Company announced that it was pursuing strategic exploratory work to separate the NOOK business in order to capitalize on its rapid growth and its favorable leadership position in the expanding market for digital content. On April 30, 2012, the Company announced the formation of a strategic partnership with Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft) in a 27 Table of Contents new Company subsidiary (NewCo) to be comprised of NOOK and B&N College. The Company is actively engaged in the formation of NewCo and intends to explore all alternatives for how a strategic separation of NewCo may occur and whether such separation would create shareholder value. However, there can be no assurance that the review will result in a strategic separation or the creation of a stand-alone public company, and there is no timetable for this review. There is the potential for various adverse impacts on the Company and its businesses as a result of this proposed partnership, including, without limitation, the risk that the transactions contemplated by the partnership, including with respect to any spin-off, split-off or other disposition by the Company of its interest in NewCo, are not able to be implemented on the terms contemplated or at all, the risk that the transactions do not achieve the expected benefits for the parties including the risk that NewCo’s applications are not commercially successful or that the expected distribution of those applications is not achieved, the risk that the separation of NOOK and B&N College or any subsequent spin-off, split-off or other disposition by the Company of its interest in NewCo results in adverse impacts on Company or NewCo (including as a result of termination of agreements and other adverse impacts), the potential impact on B&N Retail of the separation, the potential tax consequences for the Company and its shareholders of a subsequent spin-off, split-off or other disposition by the Company of its interest in NewCo, the risk that the international expansion contemplated by the relationship is not successful, the risk that NewCo is not able to perform its obligations under the commercial agreement, including with respect to the development of applications and international expansion, and the consequences thereof, the costs and disruptions arising out of any such separation of NOOK and B&N College, the risk that the Company may not recoup its investments in the NOOK digital business as part of any separation transaction, and risks, difficulties, and uncertainties that may result from the separation of businesses that were previously co-mingled including necessary ongoing relationships, and potential for adverse customer impacts. Moreover, the form or nature of any such separation or any other transaction which may arise out of such proposed partnership may have an adverse impact on the Company’s operations and stock price. The Company’s shareholder rights plan, classified board of directors and other anti-takeover defenses could deter acquisition proposals and make it difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company. This could have a negative effect on the price of the Company’s common stock. The Company has a shareholder rights plan, a classified board of directors and other takeover defenses in its certificate of incorporation and by-laws. These defenses could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company. These deterrents could adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock and make it difficult to remove or replace members of the Board of Directors or management of the Company. Barnes & Noble’s business is subject to the risks of international operations. Barnes & Noble, which has historically limited its operations to the United States, has begun to conduct operations internationally, including in China. There is no assurance that any investment by Barnes & Noble to expand its operations internationally will be successful. In particular, the Company has announced that it is in discussions with strategic partners including publishers, retailers and technology companies in international markets that may lead to expansion of the NOOK business abroad. There can be no assurances that the Company will actually be successful in reaching agreements with these partners. Moreover, the terms of any agreements that are reached may not be advantageous to the Company. The NOOK® device may require technological changes to comply with applicable foreign laws. It also may not be accepted in a particular marketplace where other companies may have already entered with products that have achieved some customer acceptance. 28 Table of Contents Compliance with U.S. and foreign laws and regulations that apply to international operations, including without limitation import and export requirements, anti-corruption laws, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, labor laws, and anti-competition regulations, increases the costs of doing business in foreign jurisdictions, and any such costs, which may rise in the future as a result of changes in these laws and regulations or in their interpretation. There can be no assurance that Barnes & Noble’s employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or Barnes & Noble’s policies with respect to foreign operations. Intense competition from traditional retail sources, the Internet and suppliers of digital content and hardware may adversely affect Barnes & Noble’s businesses. The book business is highly competitive in every channel in which Barnes & Noble operates. Barnes & Noble retail stores compete primarily on the quality of the shopping and store experience and the price and availability of products. The importance of price varies depending on the competitor, with some of Barnes & Noble’s competitors engaging in significant discounting and other promotional activities. NOOK® competes primarily with other eBook readers on functionality, consumer appeal, availability of digital content and price. Barnes & Noble competes with large bookstores including Books-A-Million and smaller format bookstores. It faces competition from many online businesses, notably Amazon.com and Apple. Increases in consumer spending via the Internet may significantly affect its ability to generate sales in Barnes & Noble retail stores. Barnes & Noble also faces competition from mass merchandisers, such as Costco, Target and Wal-Mart. Some of the Company’s competitors may have greater financial and other resources and different business strategies than Barnes & Noble does. Barnes & Noble retail stores also compete with specialty retail stores that offer books in particular subject areas, independent store operators, variety discounters, drug stores, warehouse clubs, mail-order clubs and other retailers offering books, music, toys, games, gifts and other products in its market segments. The music and DVD businesses are also highly competitive, and Barnes & Noble faces competition from mass merchants, discounters, the Internet and digital distribution. Barnes & Noble faces competition from the expanding market for digital content and hardware, including without limitation electronic books or “eBooks” and eBook readers. New and enhanced technologies, including new digital technologies and new web services technologies, may increase Barnes & Noble’s competition. Competition may also intensify as Barnes & Noble’s competitors enter into business combinations or alliances or established companies in other market segments expand into its market segments. Increased competition may reduce Barnes & Noble’s sales and profits. If Barnes & Noble is unable to renew or enter into new leases on favorable terms, or at all, its sales and earnings may decline. Substantially all of Barnes & Noble’s retail stores are located in leased premises. Barnes & Noble’s profitability depends in part on its ability to continue to optimize its store lease portfolio as to number of retail stores, store locations and lease terms and conditions. Its ability to do so depends on, among other things, general economic and business conditions and general real estate development conditions, which are beyond its control. Barnes & Noble has 442 leases up for renewal by April 30, 2016. If the cost of leasing existing retail stores increases, Barnes & Noble may not be able to maintain its existing store locations as leases expire. In addition, Barnes & Noble may not be able to enter into new leases on acceptable terms, or at all, or it may not be able 29 Table of Contents to locate suitable alternative sites or additional sites for new retail stores in a timely manner. Barnes & Noble’s sales and earnings may decline if it fails to maintain existing store locations, enter into new leases, renew leases or relocate to alternative sites, in each case on attractive terms. Barnes & Noble faces various risks as an Internet retailer and as a digital retailer. Business risks related to its online and digital businesses include risks associated with the need to keep pace with rapid technological change, risks associated with the timing of the adoption of new digital products or platforms, Internet security risks, risks of system failure or inadequacy, protection of digital rights, supply chain risks, government regulation and legal uncertainties with respect to the Internet and digital content, risks related to data privacy and collection of sales or other taxes by one or more states or foreign jurisdictions. If any of these risks materializes, it could have an adverse effect on Barnes & Noble’s business. The Company faces the risk of a shift in consumer spending patterns to Internet retailers and digital content. The Company has entered parts of the online and digital markets in which it has limited experience and may in the future expand into additional areas. The offering of digital content may present new and difficult challenges. Gross margin for digital content and products may be lower than for the Company’s traditional product lines. The gross margin for Barnes & Noble’s online sales is generally lower than for sales in its retail stores. Although the Company has entered into the online and digital spaces, it may not be able to compete effectively in those spaces and any investments made in those spaces may not be successful. Barnes & Noble also faces competition from companies engaged in the business of selling books, music and movies via electronic means, including the downloading of books, music and movie content. For example, historically Barnes & Noble offered a selection of music products in its retail stores, but has dramatically decreased such selection because of the increased competition from the download of digital music. B&N College is experiencing growing competition from alternative media and alternative sources of textbooks and course-related materials, such as websites that sell textbooks, eBooks, digital content and other merchandise directly to students; online resources; publishers selling directly to students; print-on-demand textbooks; CD-ROMs; textbook rental companies; and student-to-student transactions over the Internet. In addition, B&N College is experiencing a trend toward increased textbook rentals rather than textbook sales. These challenges may negatively affect the Company’s operating results. Barnes & Noble’s expansion into new products, services and technologies subjects it to additional business, legal, financial and competitive risks. Barnes & Noble may require additional capital in the future to sustain or grow Barnes & Noble’s online and digital businesses. Barnes & Noble’s gross profits and margins in its newer activities may be lower than in its traditional activities, and it may not be successful enough in these newer activities to recoup its investments in them. In addition, Barnes & Noble may have limited or no experience in its newer products and services, and its customers may not adopt its new product or service offerings, which include digital, web services and electronic devices, including but not limited to its NOOK® eBook reader, as well as new gift products and educational toys and games products. Some of these offerings may present new and difficult technological challenges, and Barnes & Noble may be subject to claims or recalls if customers of these offerings experience service disruptions or failures or other quality issues. If any of these were to occur, it could damage the Company’s reputation, limit its growth and negatively affect its operating results. 30 Table of Contents Barnes & Noble depends on component and product manufacturing provided by third parties, many of whom are located outside of the U.S. NOOK® and other Company products are manufactured by a third-party manufacturer outside the United States, and Barnes & Noble relies on components provided from a number of different manufacturers both within and outside the United States. Many of these manufacturers are concentrated in geographic areas outside the United States. While Barnes & Noble’s arrangements with these manufacturers may lower costs, they also reduce its direct control over production. It is uncertain what effect such diminished control will have on the quality or quantity of products or services, or Barnes & Noble’s flexibility to respond to changing conditions. Although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, if reimbursement from such manufacturers is unenforceable or insufficient, Barnes & Noble may remain responsible to the consumer for warranty service in the event of product defects. Any unanticipated product defect or warranty liability, whether pursuant to arrangements with contract manufacturers or otherwise, could materially adversely affect Barnes & Noble’s reputation, financial condition and operating results. If manufacturing in these locations is disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health or political issues, Barnes & Noble’s financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. The Company or its digital business may be unable to obtain a sufficient supply of components and parts that are free of minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, which could result in a shortage of such components and parts or reputational damages if the Company is unable to certify that the its products are free of such minerals. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act included disclosure requirements regarding the use of “conflict” minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries (DRC) and procedures regarding a manufacturer’s efforts to prevent the sourcing of such “conflict” minerals. While final rules are not yet implemented, the implementation of these requirements may limit the pool of suppliers who can provide Barnes & Noble DRC Conflict Free components and parts, and the Company cannot make assurances that it will be able to obtain products or supplies in sufficient quantities that meet the DRC Conflict Free designation as proposed by the requirements. Also, because the Barnes & Noble supply chain is complex, the Company may face reputational challenges with its customers, stockholders and other stakeholders if it is unable to sufficiently verify the origins for the defined conflict metals used in its products. Government regulation is evolving and unfavorable changes could harm the Company’s business. The Company is subject to general business regulations and laws relating to all aspects of its business, including regulations and laws relating to the Internet, online commerce, digital content and products as well as its other lines of business (including governmental investigations and litigation relating to the agency pricing model for digital content distribution). Existing and future laws and regulations and their application and/or enforcement may impede the growth of the Internet, digital content distribution or other online services and impact digital content pricing, including requiring modifications or elimination of related pricing models including the agency pricing model. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, competition and/or antitrust, content, copyrights, distribution, college distribution, mobile communications, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, unencumbered Internet access to the Company’s services, 31 Table of Contents the design and operation of websites, the characteristics and quality of products and services and employee benefits (including the costs associated with complying with the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act). Unfavorable regulatory and legal developments, including among other things the U.S. Department of Justice’s lawsuit against Apple Inc. and certain U.S. publishers for allegedly colluding to raise the price of electronic books and the settlement between the U.S. Department of Justice and certain of the U.S. publishers that were party to that lawsuit, could diminish the demand for the Company’s products and services, increase its cost of doing business, decrease its margins and materially adversely impact its results of operations or financial operations. The Company relies on third-party digital content and applications, which may not be available to the Company on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The Company contracts with certain third-parties to offer their digital content, including on NOOK® and through its eBookstore. Its licensing arrangements with these third-parties do not guarantee the continuation or renewal of these arrangements on reasonable terms, if at all. Some third-party content providers currently or in the future may offer competing products and services, and could take action to make it more difficult or impossible for the Company to license their content in the future. Other content owners, providers or distributors may seek to limit the Company’s access to, or increase the total cost of, such content. If the Company is unable to offer a wide variety of content at reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, its financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. B&N College may not be able to enter into new contracts and contracts for existing or additional college bookstores may not be profitable. An important part of B&N College’s business strategy is to expand sales for its college bookstore operations by being awarded additional contracts to manage bookstores for colleges and universities. B&N College’s ability to obtain those additional contracts is subject to a number of factors that it is not able to control. In addition, the anticipated strategic benefits of new and additional college and university bookstores may not be realized at all or may not be realized within the time frames contemplated by management. In particular, contracts for additional managed stores may involve a number of special risks, including adverse short-term effects on operating results, diversion of management’s attention and other resources, standardization of accounting systems, dependence on retaining, hiring and training key personnel, unanticipated problems or legal liabilities, and actions of its competitors and customers. Because the terms of any contract are generally fixed for the initial term of the contract and involve judgments and estimates which may not be accurate, including for reasons outside of its control, B&N College has contracts which are not profitable, and may have such contracts in the future. Even if B&N College has the right to terminate a contract, it may be reluctant to do so even when a contract is unprofitable due, among other factors, to the potential effect on B&N College’s reputation. Any unprofitable contracts may negatively impact the Company’s operating results. B&N College may not be able to successfully retain or renew its managed bookstore contracts on profitable terms, which could adversely impact B&N College’s profit margins. B&N College will be competing for the retention of existing store contracts and renewal of those contracts as they expire. B&N College’s contracts are typically for five to ten years, although some extend beyond ten years. Many contracts have a 90 to 120 day cancellation right by the college or university, without penalty. B&N College may not be successful in retaining its current contracts, renewing its current contracts, or renewing its current contracts on terms that 32 Table of Contents provide it the opportunity to improve or maintain the profitability of managing the store. If B&N College is unable to retain or renew its contracts on profitable terms, or at all, its profit margins could be adversely impacted. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 