ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information set forth in this filing, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before investing in our common stock. The following risks and the risks described elsewhere in this filing, including in the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” could materially harm our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. If that occurs, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. GENERAL RISKS RELATING TO OUR OPERATIONS We are currently in discussions regarding potential acquisition, merger or business combination opportunities and transactions and may choose to enter into such transactions in the future. We are currently in discussions with certain third parties and related parties regarding potential acquisition, merger or business combination transactions. We have not entered into or agreed to the terms of any definitive transactions to date. However, in the future, we may choose to enter into acquisition, merger and/or business combination transactions with separate third-party or related-party companies, which may result in our majority shareholders changing, the ownership of our majority shareholders increasing and/or new shares of common or preferred stock (including preferred stock with rights and privileges superior to our common stock) being issued, resulting in substantial dilution to our then shareholders. Additionally, any such transaction could result in a change of control, a change in our business focus or operations, and a change in the composition of our Board of Directors, which could result in the replacement of our current management. In the event we enter into an acquisition, merger and/or business combination in the future, we can make no assurances that our management (or new management in the event our management changes in connection with such transaction) will be able to properly manage our direction or that any change in our business focus or operations will be successful or ultimately beneficial to our shareholders. If we do consummate any acquisition, merger and/or business combination transaction in the future and such transaction, or our resulting business focus or operations are unsuccessful, we may be forced to scale back or abandon our then current business plan or raise additional capital (which could result in further dilution to our then shareholders) either of which will likely cause the value of our common stock to decline in value or become worthless. -14- Vertex owes a significant amount of money in accounts payable. As of December 31, 2011, Vertex owed approximately $7 million in accounts payable. Moving forward, Vertex may need to raise additional funding, and as such may need to seek additional debt or equity financing. If debt financing is available and obtained, our interest expense may increase and we may be subject to the risk of default, depending on the terms of such financing. If equity financing is available and obtained it may result in our shareholders experiencing significant dilution. If such financing is unavailable, we may be forced to curtail our operations, which may cause the value of our securities to decline in value and/or become worthless. An event of default by Vertex LP, and a foreclosure of Vertex LP’s and CMT’s assets by its lending partners, would materially adversely affect the Company’s operations and the value of its securities. Vertex LP, which is majority-owned and controlled by the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Director, Benjamin P. Cowart, was previously a party to certain loan agreements, security agreements and related agreements with Regions Bank (“Regions”). In August 2009, Vertex LP (and certain other entities controlled by and/or associated with Vertex LP, including but not limited to CMT) received notice from Regions that Regions believed it was in default of certain borrowing criteria set forth in the loan agreement between Vertex LP and Regions, and that Vertex LP had until October 1, 2009 at the latest, to remedy such alleged defaults. Regions subsequently agreed to provide Vertex LP a six month extension of the due date of the loans made by Regions, and as a result, Vertex LP had until May 28, 2010 to remedy such defaults. Subsequently, Vertex LP entered into a 12 month forbearance agreement by which it has agreed to certain principal and interest payments through September 27, 2011 in consideration for Regions forbearing from taking any action against Vertex LP. Thereafter, Vertex LP refinanced its indebtedness held by Regions with Bank of America and on September 30, 2011, entered into a 3 year agreement with Bank of America. The indebtedness is secured by substantially all of Vertex LP’s assets. As a result, if an event of default were to occur under Vertex LP’s loan agreements with Bank of America, it could prohibit the Company from using Vertex LP’s assets (including TCEP) and services, and could result in the value of the Company’s securities becoming devalued and/or worthless and potentially force the Company to curtail or abandon its business plan or operations. The sales of common stock previously subject to (a) lock-up agreements, in connection with our common stock, and/or (b) conversion limitations, in connection with the conversion of our Series A Preferred Stock; may depress the market price of and cause immediate and substantial dilution to the share price of our common stock. Approximately 6.6 million of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock are subject to Lock-up Agreements that provide that until three years following the effective date of the Merger (April 16, 2012)(the “Lock-Up Period”), shareholders subject to the Lock-Up Agreements cannot sell, assign, pledge or otherwise transfer more than 5% of the total number of shares of common stock such holders beneficially own, without the Company's prior written consent. As a result, all shares currently subject to such Lock-Up Agreements will be eligible to be sold (subject to restrictions of such shares under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”)) following the expiration of such Lock-Up Agreements in April 2012. Additionally, the Company has approximately 4.4 million shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (“Series A Preferred Stock”) issued and outstanding as of the date of this Report. Among the other rights of the Series A Preferred Stock, each share of Series A Preferred Stock can be converted into one (1) share of common stock, provided that prior to the three-year anniversary of the Merger (April 16, 2012), no holder may, in any given three-month period, convert more than that number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock that equals 5% of the total number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock then beneficially owned by such holder (the “Conversion Limitation”). Additionally, holders may convert only up to that number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock, such that upon conversion, the aggregate beneficial ownership of the Company’s common stock held by any such holder does not exceed 4.99% of the Company’s common stock then outstanding (the “Beneficial Limitation”). As a result, all shares currently subject to such Conversion Limitation will be eligible to be sold (subject to restrictions of such shares under the Securities Act and the Beneficial Limitation) following the expiration of such Conversion Limitation in April 2012. Consequently, in April 2012, we will have an additional approximately 11 million shares of common stock available for immediate resale, which were previously locked-up and/or restricted from conversion. The sale of such common stock previously subject to Lock-Up Agreements may cause the price of our common stock to decline in value and the conversion and sale of shares of Series A Preferred Stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline in value and/or may cause immediate and substantial dilution to our common stock shareholders. Additionally, the sale of such previously locked-up and/or recently converted Series A Preferred Stock shares may cause continued downward pressure on the price of our common stock. Such sales and downward pressure may be exacerbated by the limited volume of our shares which trade. -15- Vertex has no significant long-term assets and needs to rely on its contracts and relationships with Vertex LP and its affiliates and certain third parties, which could affect Vertex’s ability to operate its business. Vertex has very few physical assets, but instead its business is comprised of the rights to various contracts and arrangements. As such, moving forward, Vertex will need to rely on its relationships and agreements with Vertex LP and its affiliates, including with the following: · CrossRoad Carriers, for the transportation of Vertex’s feedstock of refined and re-refined petroleum products; and · Cedar Marine Terminal LP, which will sublease terminal space to Vertex, and from which Vertex may purchase certain re-refining assets. Although Vertex has a right of first refusal to purchase the entities (including the assets of such entities), there can be no assurance that Vertex will exercise such right. In the event that any of the above-described relationships are terminated, Vertex may be forced to spend significant resources to identify and secure alternative sources to provide these services. There can be no assurance that Vertex will be able to locate such alternative sources on terms acceptable to it, or at all. As a result, Vertex may be unable to continue its operations in its current form, may be required to expend significant resources identifying alternative sources of services, and/or may be forced to expend significant resources to purchase and/or manufacture long-term assets, the construction of which assets may take a significant amount of time and capital to complete. Our Chief Executive Officer has significant voting control over the Company, including the appointment of Directors. Due to Mr. Cowart’s beneficial ownership of approximately 31% of Vertex’s common stock and voting agreements which are in place until April 16, 2012, which allow him to vote an additional approximately 26% of Vertex’s common stock for four of the six Directors of Vertex, at least one of whom must be “independent” as defined by the New York Stock Exchange, Mr. Cowart will have the right to appoint four of our six Directors until April 16, 2012 and significant control in the appointment of Directors thereafter. The holders of Vertex’s Series A preferred stock are entitled to elect one of Vertex’s six directors. Accordingly, the minority holders of shares of Vertex’s common stock will have a limited ability to vote for the election of directors. Potential conflicts of interest exist between the Company, Mr. Cowart, our Chief Executive Officer, and certain entities which he controls. Benjamin P. Cowart, Vertex’s Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, owns and is involved in other businesses that have relationships and agreements with Vertex, including, but not limited to Vertex LP. These relationships may cause conflicts of interest with Vertex. Benjamin P. Cowart, Vertex’s Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, also serves as the General Partner of and controls several other entities, including, but not limited to Vertex LP, through VTX, Inc. (collectively, the “Vertex Entities”), that have entered into transactions with, supplied feedstock for, and performed various business services for Vertex. These transactions and relationships include the following: · Cross Road Carriers transports some of Vertex’s feedstock and refined and re-refined petroleum products; · Vertex subleases terminal space from CMT and may purchase certain re-refining assets, and perform certain other services for, Cedar Marine Terminal pursuant to other agreements described herein; and · Vertex Recovery collects used oil feedstock and sells it to Vertex. Vertex has (1) a right of first refusal to match any third-party offer to purchase any of the Vertex LP Entities on the terms and conditions set forth in such offer; and (2) the option, exercisable in Vertex’s sole discretion so long as Mr. Cowart is employed by Vertex, to purchase all or any part of the outstanding stock of any of the Vertex LP Entities owned by Vertex LP or VTX, Inc., at a price based on an independent third-party valuation and appraisal of the fair market value of such Vertex LP Entity (the “Right of First Refusal”). Pursuant to the merger agreement, Vertex was required to form a committee of its board of directors (the “Related Party Transaction Committee”) including at least two “independent directors” (defined as any individuals who do not beneficially own more than 5% of the outstanding voting shares of Vertex, are not employed by, or officers of Vertex or any entity related to Mr. Cowart, are not directors or managers of any such company, are not family members of Mr. Cowart, and would qualify as “Independent Directors” as defined in the rules and regulations of the New York Stock Exchange). The Related Party Transaction Committee is charged with the review and pre-approval of any and all related party transactions, including between Vertex and Vertex LP, Mr. Cowart, or any other company or individual which may be affiliated with Mr. Cowart. -16- Notwithstanding the Right of First Refusal and the Related Party Transaction Committee, perceived or actual conflicts of interest may exist between Mr. Cowart and Vertex in connection with the Vertex Entities and/or any other entity which Mr. Cowart may be affiliated and/or control in the future. Furthermore, if any disagreement were to occur between Mr. Cowart and/or any Vertex Entity, Vertex may be forced to find alternative suppliers and contractors to supply the services or products then supplied by any of the Vertex Entities, which new arrangements may not be on as favorable terms to Vertex and/or Mr. Cowart may be forced to make a decision between remaining in control of any of the Vertex Entities and/or Vertex. Such perceived or actual conflicts of interest may cause potential investors to not be willing to invest in Vertex, which could make it harder for Vertex to raise funds through the sale of debt and/or equity securities and/or cause Vertex’s securities to be devalued. As a result of these perceived and/or actual conflicts of interest, the value of Vertex’s securities may decrease in value and/or be valued less than similarly situated publicly-traded companies without such potential conflicts of interest. We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a fully reporting company in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act, and our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives. We incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses in connection with our status as a fully reporting public company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act") and rules subsequently implemented by the SEC have imposed various new requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. As such, our management and other personnel are required to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure of controls and procedures. Our testing may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. We may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge to comply with such compliance requirements. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we identify deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. -17- RISKS RELATING TO VERTEX’S BUSINESS Vertex’s contracts may not be renewed and its existing relationships may not continue, which could be exacerbated by the fact that a limited number of Vertex’s customers represented a significant portion of Vertex’s sales. Vertex’s contracts and relationships in the black oil business include feedstock purchasing agreements with local waste oil collectors, an off-take arrangement with one re-refinery, along with a few key relationships in the bunkering, blending and No. 6 oil industry. Because Vertex’s operations are extremely dependent on the black oil key bunkering, blending and No. 6 oil relationships as well as its third-party refining contracts, if we were to lose relationships there would be a material adverse effect on Vertex’s operations and results of operations. Additionally, if Vertex were to lose any of its current local waste oil collectors, Vertex could be required to spend additional resources locating and providing incentives for other waste oil collectors, which could cause Vertex’s expenses to increase and/or cause it to curtail or abandon its business plans. This is exacerbated by the fact that three companies represented approximately 49%, 12%, and 10% of the Company’s revenues and two companies represented approximately 18% and 11% of outstanding purchases for the year ended December 31, 2011. As a result, if the Company were to lose any of its largest revenue producing relationships, the Company may be forced to expend additional resources attempting to secure replacement relationships, which may not be on as favorable terms as its current relationships, if such relationships can be secured at all. A significant portion of our historical revenues are a result of our agreement with KMTEX, which has expired to date, but which terms the parties have continued to operate under. We previously had an agreement in place with KMTEX, pursuant to which KMTEX agreed to process feedstock of certain petroleum distillates, which we provide to KMTEX to process into more valuable feedstocks, including pygas, gasoline blendstock and cutterstock, which agreement expired on June 30, 2011, provided that Vertex believes that it will be able to renew or extend such agreement subsequent to the date of this report and the parties have continued to operate under the terms of the agreement subsequent to its expiration. If KMTEX were to terminate our relationship and/or not agree to renew our agreement with it, we would be forced to spend resources attempting to locate another party which we could supply our feedstock which could take substantial time, if such alternative party is even available. If we are able to find another contracting party, the terms of the understanding or agreement with such contracting party may be on terms less favorable to us and/or may force us to transport our feedstock a greater distance. As a result of the above, if we were to lose our relationship with KMTEX our expenses may increase, our results of operations may decrease and/or it may cause us to curtail or abandon our business plans, all of which would likely cause the value of our securities to decrease in value. CMT has the right to license TCEP to third-parties at the Baytown, Texas facility, and/or to sell TCEP, subject in all cases to our rights to the License. Pursuant to the Operating Agreement we have the right to use the first 33,000 monthly barrels of the capacity of TCEP, with CMT being provided the right to use the next 20,000 barrels of capacity and any additional capacity allocated pro rata (based on the percentages above), subject to separate mutually agreeable allocations. Pursuant to the Operating Agreement, we also have the right to a non-revocable, non-transferable, royalty-free, perpetual (except as provided in the agreement) License to use the technology associated with the operations of TCEP in any market in the world (except at CMT’s Baytown facility where it is non-exclusive). Due to the fact that TCEP is non-exclusive at CMT’s Baytown facility, CMT has the right to license its rights to TCEP to third parties at the Baytown, Texas facility or sell its rights to TCEP to third parties, subject to our rights to use the License. Such actions could have an adverse effect on our ability to use TCEP, create competition for the use of and pricing of TCEP at the Baytown facility or separate facilities we may construct in the future and/or adversely affect our results of operations and revenues. Vertex operates in competitive markets, and there can be no certainty that Vertex will maintain its current customers or attract new customers or that its operating margins will not be impacted by competition. The industries in which Vertex operates are highly competitive. Vertex competes with numerous local and regional companies of varying sizes and financial resources in its refining and feedstock consolidation operations, and expects to compete with larger oil companies, with significantly greater resources than Vertex, in its planned oil re-refining operations. Vertex expects competition to intensify in the future. Furthermore, numerous well-established companies are focusing significant resources on providing refining and re-refining services that will compete with Vertex’s services. We cannot assure you that Vertex will be able to effectively compete with these other companies or that competitive pressures, including possible downward pressure on the prices Vertex charges for its products and services, will not arise. In the event that Vertex cannot effectively compete on a continuing basis, or competitive pressures arise, such inability to compete or competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on Vertex’s business, results of operations and financial condition. -18- Disruptions in the supply of feedstock could have an adverse effect on Vertex’s business. Vertex depends on the continuing availability of raw materials, including feedstock, to remain in production. A serious disruption in supply of feedstock, or significant increases in the prices of feedstock, could significantly reduce the availability of raw materials at Vertex’s plant and which are available to be processed by Vertex’s third-party processors. Additionally, increases in production costs could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, Vertex has previously experienced difficulty in obtaining feedstock from its suppliers who, because of the sharp downturn in the price of oil (used and otherwise) have seen their margins decrease substantially, which in some cases has made it uneconomical for such suppliers to purchase feedstock from their suppliers and/or sell to Vertex at the rates set forth in their contracts. Any similar decline in the price of oil and/or the economy in general could create a decrease in the supply of feedstock, prevent Vertex from maintaining its required levels of output and/or force Vertex to seek out additional suppliers of feedstock, who may charge more than its current suppliers, and therefore adversely affect its results of operations. Vertex is subject to numerous environmental and other laws and regulations and, to the extent Vertex is found to be in violation of any such laws and regulations, Vertex’s business could be materially and adversely affected. Vertex is subject to extensive federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment which, among other things: · regulate the collection, transportation, handling, processing and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes; · impose liability on persons involved in generating, handling, processing, transporting or disposing hazardous materials; · impose joint and several liability for remediation and clean-up of environmental contamination; and · require financial assurance that funds will be available for the closure and post-closure care of sites where hazardous wastes are stored, processed or disposed. The breadth and complexity of all of these laws and regulations affecting Vertex make consistent compliance extremely difficult and often result in increased operating and compliance costs, including requiring the implementation of new programs to promote compliance. Even with these programs, Vertex and other companies in the industry are routinely faced with legal and administrative proceedings which can result in civil and criminal penalties, interruption of business operations, fines or other sanctions and require expenditures. Under current law, Vertex may be held liable for damage caused by conditions that existed before it acquired its assets and/or before it took control of its leased properties or if it arranges for the transportation, disposal or treatment of hazardous substances that cause environmental contamination. In the future, Vertex may be subject to monetary fines, civil or criminal penalties, remediation, clean-up or stop orders, injunctions, orders to cease or suspend certain practices or denial of permits required to operate its facilities and conduct its operations. The outcome of any proceeding and associated costs and expenses could have a material adverse impact on Vertex’s operations and financial condition. Environmental laws and regulations are subject to change and may become increasingly stringent or relaxed. Interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations, or the adoption of new laws and regulations, may require Vertex to modify or curtail its operations or replace or upgrade its facilities or equipment at substantial costs which it may not be able to pass on to its customers. On the other hand, if new laws and regulations are less stringent, then Vertex’s customers or competitors may be able to compete with Vertex more effectively, without reliance on its services, which could decrease the need for its services and/or increase competition which could adversely affect its revenues and profitability, if any. Vertex is required to obtain and maintain permits, licenses and approvals to conduct its operations in compliance with such laws and regulations. If Vertex is unable to maintain its currently held permits, licenses and approvals, it may not be able to continue certain of its operations. If it is unable to obtain any additional permits, licenses and approvals which may be required as Vertex expands its operations, it may be forced to curtail or abandon its current and/or future planned business operations. -19- Vertex could be subject to involuntary shutdowns or be required to pay significant monetary damages or remediation costs if it is found to be a responsible party for the improper handling or the release of hazardous substances. As a company engaged in the sale, handling, transportation, storage, recycling and disposal of materials that are or may be classified as hazardous by federal, state, provincial or other regulatory agencies, Vertex faces risks of liability for environmental contamination. The federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, or “CERCLA” or Superfund, and similar state laws impose strict liability for clean-up costs on current or former owners and operators of facilities that release hazardous substances into the environment, as well as on the businesses that generate those substances or transport them. As a potentially responsible party, or “PRP,” Vertex may be liable under CERCLA for substantial investigation and cleanup costs even if it operates its business properly and complies with applicable federal and state laws and regulations. Liability under CERCLA may be joint and several, which means that if it were found to be a business with responsibility for a particular CERCLA site, Vertex could be required to pay the entire cost of the investigation and cleanup, even though it was not the party responsible for the release of the hazardous substance and even though other companies might also be liable. Even if Vertex is able to identify who the other responsible parties might be, it may not be able to compel them to contribute to the remediation costs, or they might be insolvent or unable to contribute due to lack of financial resources. Vertex’s facilities and the facilities of its clients and third-party contractors may have generated, used, handled and/or disposed of hazardous substances and other regulated wastes. Environmental liabilities could exist, including cleanup obligations at these facilities or at off-site locations, which could result in future expenditures that cannot be currently quantified and which could materially reduce Vertex’s profits. In addition, new services or products offered by Vertex could expose it to further environmental liabilities for which it has no historical experience and cannot estimate its potential exposure to liabilities. Environmental risks and regulations may adversely affect Vertex’s business. All phases of designing, constructing and operating Vertex’s refining and planned re-refining plant present environmental risks and hazards. Vertex is subject to environmental regulation implemented or imposed by a variety of federal, state and municipal laws and regulations as well as international conventions. Among other things, environmental legislation provides for restrictions and prohibitions on spills and discharges, as well as emissions of various substances produced in association with Vertex’s operations. Legislation also requires that facility sites be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed in such a way that would satisfy applicable regulatory authorities. Compliance with such legislation can require significant expenditures and a breach could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, some of which could be material. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner Vertex expects may result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability, as well as potentially increased capital expenditures and operating costs. The presence or discharge of pollutants in or into the air, soil or water may give rise to liabilities to governments and third parties and may require Vertex to incur costs to remedy such presence or discharge. If Vertex is unable to remediate such conditions economically or obtain reimbursement or indemnification from third parties, its financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Vertex cannot assure you that the application of environmental laws to its business will not cause it to limit its production, to significantly increase the costs of its operations and activities, to reduce the market for its products or to otherwise adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Penalties Vertex may incur could impair its business. Failure to comply with government regulations could subject Vertex to civil and criminal penalties and may negatively affect the value of its assets or its ability to conduct its business. Vertex may also be required to take corrective actions, including, but not limited to, installing additional equipment, which could require it to make substantial capital expenditures. Vertex could also be required to indemnify its employees in connection with any expenses or liabilities that they may incur individually in connection with regulatory action against Vertex. These could result in a material adverse effect on Vertex’s prospects, business, financial condition and its results of operations. -20- Vertex is dependent on third parties for the disposal of its waste streams. Vertex does not own any waste disposal sites. As a result, it is dependent on third parties for the disposal of waste streams. To date, disposal vendors have met their requirements, but we cannot assure you that they will continue to do so. If for some reason Vertex’s current disposal vendors cannot perform up to standards, Vertex may be required to replace them. Although Vertex believes there are a number of potential replacement disposal vendors that could provide such services, it may incur additional costs and delays in identifying and qualifying such replacements. In addition, any mishandling of its waste streams by disposal vendors could expose Vertex to liability. Any failure by disposal vendors to properly collect, transport, handle or dispose of Vertex’s waste streams could expose it to liability, damage its reputation and generally have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. Worsening economic conditions and trends and downturns in the business cycles of the industries Vertex serves and which provide services to Vertex would impact its business and operating results. A significant portion of Vertex’s customer base is comprised of companies in the chemical manufacturing and hydrocarbon recovery industries. The overall levels of demand for its products, refining operations, and future planned re-refined oil products, are driven by fluctuations in levels of end-user demand, which depend in large part on general macroeconomic conditions in the U.S., as well as regional economic conditions. For example, many of Vertex’s principal consumers are themselves heavily dependent on general economic conditions, including the price of fuel and energy, availability of affordable credit and capital, employment levels, interest rates, consumer confidence and housing demand. These cyclical shifts in Vertex’s customers’ businesses may result in fluctuations in demand, volumes, pricing and operating margins for its services and products. In addition to its customers, the suppliers of Vertex’s feedstock may also be affected by downturns in the economy and adverse changes in the price of feedstock. For example, Vertex previously experienced difficulty obtaining feedstock from its suppliers who, because of the sharp downturn in the price of oil (used and otherwise) have seen their margins decrease substantially, which in some cases have made it uneconomical for such suppliers to purchase feedstock from their suppliers and/or sell to Vertex at the rates set forth in their contracts. Any similar decline in the price of oil and/or the economy in general could create a decrease in the supply of feedstock, prevent Vertex from maintaining its required levels of output and/or force Vertex to seek additional suppliers of feedstock, who may charge more than its current suppliers, and therefore adversely affect its results of operations. Vertex’s operating margins and profitability may be negatively impacted by changes in fuel and energy costs. Vertex transports its refined oil, and plans in the future to transport re-refined oil, with trucks and by rail. As a result, increases in shipping and transportation costs caused by increases in oil, gasoline and diesel prices have a significant impact on its operating expenses. The price and supply of oil and gas is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events beyond Vertex’s control, including geopolitical developments, natural disasters, supply and demand for oil and natural gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. A significant increase in transportation or fuel costs could lower Vertex’s operating margins and negatively impact its profitability. Additionally, the price at which Vertex sells its refined oil and its re-refined oil is affected by changes in certain oil indexes. If the relevant oil index rises, Vertex anticipates being able to increase the prices for its refined and re-refined oil. If the relevant oil index declines, Vertex anticipates having to reduce prices for its refined and re-refined oil. However, the cost to collect used oil and refinery feedstock, including the amounts that must be paid to obtain used oil and feedstock, generally also increases or decreases when the relevant index increases or decreases. Even though the prices that can be charged for Vertex’s refined (and in the future, re-refined) products and the costs to collect, refine, and re-refine the feedstock generally increase and decrease together, Vertex cannot assure you that when the costs to collect, refine and re-refine used oil and petrochemical products increase, Vertex will be able to increase the prices it charges for its refined and re-refined products to cover such increased costs, or that the costs to collect, refine and re-refine used oil and petrochemical products will decline when the prices Vertex can charge for its products declines. If the prices Vertex charges for its finished products and the costs to collect, refine and re-refine products do not move together or in similar magnitudes, Vertex’s profitability may be materially and negatively impacted. -21- Expansion of Vertex’s business may result in unanticipated adverse consequences. In the future, Vertex may seek to grow its business by investing in new or existing facilities or technologies, making acquisitions or entering into partnerships and joint ventures. Acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures or investments may require significant managerial attention, which may divert management from its other activities and may impair the operation of Vertex’s existing businesses. Any future acquisitions of businesses or facilities could entail a number of additional risks, including: · the failure to successfully integrate the acquired businesses or facilities or new technology into Vertex’s operations; · the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships; · loss of key personnel of the acquired business or facility; · exposure to unanticipated liabilities; and · the failure to realize efficiencies, synergies and cost savings. As a result of these and other factors, including the general economic risk associated with the industries in which it operates, Vertex may not be able to realize the expected benefits from any future acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures or other investments. Vertex depends heavily on the services of its Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, Benjamin P. Cowart. Vertex’s success depends heavily upon the personal efforts and abilities of Benjamin P. Cowart, its Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, who is employed by Vertex under a five-year employment contract. Vertex does not currently have any “key man” life insurance policy in place for Mr. Cowart. Mr. Cowart has numerous business relationships with entities separate from Vertex, which could take a significant portion of his time and/or could cause conflicts of interest with Vertex’s operations. The loss of Mr. Cowart or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on Vertex’s business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, the absence of Mr. Cowart may force Vertex to seek a replacement who may have less experience or who may not understand Vertex’s business as well, or Vertex may not be able to find a suitable replacement. Unanticipated problems or delays in building Vertex’s facilities to the proper specifications may harm its business and viability. Vertex’s future growth will depend on its ability to timely and economically complete and operate TCEP and its other planned re-refining facility and operate its existing refining operations. If Vertex’s operations are disrupted or its economic integrity is threatened for unexpected reasons, its business may experience a substantial setback. Moreover, the occurrence of significant unforeseen conditions or events in connection with the construction of Vertex’s planned facility may require it to reexamine its business model. Any change to Vertex’s business model or management’s evaluation of the viability of its planned services may adversely affect its business. Construction costs for Vertex’s future facilities may also increase to a level that would make a new facility too expensive to complete or unprofitable to operate. Contractors, engineering firms, construction firms and equipment suppliers also receive requests and orders from other companies and, therefore, Vertex may not be able to secure their services or products on a timely basis or on acceptable financial terms. Vertex may suffer significant delays or cost overruns as a result of a variety of factors, such as increases in the prices of raw materials, shortages of workers or materials, transportation constraints, adverse weather, equipment failures, fires, damage to or destruction of property and equipment, environmental damage, unforeseen difficulties or labor issues, any of which could prevent Vertex from beginning or completing construction or commencing operations at its future planned re-refining facilities. Strategic relationships on which Vertex relies are subject to change. Vertex’s ability to identify and enter into commercial arrangements with feedstock suppliers and refined and re-refined oil clients depends on developing and maintaining close working relationships with industry participants. Vertex’s success in this area also depends on its ability to select and evaluate suitable projects as well as to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. These factors are subject to change and may impair Vertex’s ability to grow. Disruptions to infrastructure and Vertex’s and its partner’s facilities could materially and adversely affect Vertex’s business. Vertex’s business depends on the continuing availability of railroad, port, storage and distribution infrastructure and its and its partners re-refining facilities. Any disruptions in this infrastructure network or such re-refining facilities, whether caused by labor difficulties, earthquakes, storms, other natural disasters, human error or malfeasance or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on Vertex’s business. Vertex relies on third parties to maintain the rail lines from their plants to the national rail network, and any failure by these third parties to maintain the lines could impede the delivery of products, impose additional costs and could have a material adverse effect on Vertex’s business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, previous damage to the Cedar Marine Terminal as a result of Hurricane Ike (which caused the terminal to temporarily be out of operation), resulted in increased costs associated with the shipping of feedstock through third party contractors, thereby raising the overall cost of the feedstock and lowering Vertex’s margins. Additional hurricanes or natural disasters in the future could cause similar damage to Vertex’s infrastructure, prevent Vertex from generating revenues while such infrastructure is undergoing repair (if repairable) and/or cause Vertex’s margins and therefore its results of operations to be adversely affected. -22- Additionally, Vertex has occasionally had to take its licensed TCEP facility offline to refurbish and upgrade such facility. Any prolonged period during which the TCEP facility is non-operational or operational on a limited basis due to the decision to refurbish or upgrade such facility, or any other reason, including problems with the facility, could adversely affect Vertex’s revenues and results of operations. Furthermore, any period during which KMTEX’s facilities are offline could have an adverse effect on Vertex’s revenues, force it to seek alternative re-refining facilities, which may be more expensive or require Vertex to transport its feedstock over longer distances, and may increase Vertex’s expenses, decreasing its operating margins. Negative publicly may harm our operations and we may face additional expenses due to such negative publicity. Only a relatively small number of entities operate in our industry including competitors, feedstock suppliers, re-refining operators, purchasers of our products and transportation companies. If issues arise with our products or third parties (including entities which operate in our industry) allege issues with our products, even if no issues with such products exist, such negative publicity may force us to change service providers, undertake certain transportation activities ourselves, at higher costs than third parties would charge, or cause certain of our buyers, sellers or service providers to cease working with us. The result of such actions may result in our expenses increasing, a decrease in our ability to purchase feedstock, or our ability to sell or transport our resulting products, which could cause our revenues to decrease and/or expenses to increase, which could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Vertex’s commercial success will depend in part on its ability to obtain and maintain protection of its intellectual property. Vertex’s success will depend in part on its ability to maintain or obtain and enforce any future patent rights and/or other intellectual property protection for its technologies and to preserve its trade secrets, and to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of third parties. Vertex has not obtained patents (although patent applications for the Company’s licensed TCEP are pending, which patent pending is owned by Vertex LP and its affiliates) in the United States or internationally for its technology to date. We cannot assure you that if Vertex files patent applications for its technologies, such patents will be granted or that the scope of any claims granted in any patent will provide Vertex with proprietary protection or a competitive advantage. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that if granted, such patents will be valid or will afford Vertex with protection against competitors with similar technology. The failure to obtain or maintain patents or other intellectual property protection on the technologies underlying Vertex’s technologies may have a material adverse effect on its competitive position and business prospects. It is also possible that Vertex’s technologies may infringe on patents or other intellectual property rights owned by others. Vertex may have to alter its products or processes, pay licensing fees, defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the patents in court, or cease activities altogether because of patent rights of third parties, thereby causing additional unexpected costs and delays to it. We cannot assure you that a license will be available to Vertex, if at all, upon terms and conditions acceptable to it or that it will prevail in any intellectual property litigation. Intellectual property litigation is costly and time consuming, and we cannot assure you that Vertex will have sufficient resources to pursue such litigation. If Vertex does not obtain a license under such intellectual property rights, is found liable for infringement or is not able to have such patents declared invalid, Vertex may be liable for significant money damages and may encounter significant delays in bringing products to market. -23- Competition may impair Vertex’s success. New technologies may be developed by others that could compete with Vertex’s refining and re-refining technologies. In addition, Vertex faces competition from other producers of oil substitutes and related products. Such competition is expected to be intense and could significantly drive down the price for Vertex’s products. Competition will likely increase as prices of energy in the commodities market, including refined and re-refined oil, rise. Additionally, new companies are constantly entering the market, thus increasing the competition even further. These companies may have greater success in the recruitment and retention of qualified employees, as well as in conducting their own refining and re-refining operations, and may have greater access to feedstock, market presence, economies of scale, financial resources and engineering, technical and marketing capabilities, which may give them a competitive advantage. In addition, actual or potential competitors may be strengthened through the acquisition of additional assets and interests. If Vertex is unable to compete effectively or adequately respond to competitive pressures, this may materially adversely affect its results of operation and financial condition and could also have a negative impact on its ability to obtain additional capital from investors. Potential competition from Vertex’s existing employees and affiliated entities could negatively impact Vertex’s profitability. Although Mr. Cowart and other employees of Vertex are prohibited from competing with Vertex while they are employed with Vertex and for six months thereafter, none of such individuals will be prohibited from competing with Vertex after such six month period ends. Additionally, none of Mr. Cowart’s affiliated companies, including Vertex LP, are prohibited from competing with Vertex. Accordingly, any of these individuals or entities could be in a position to use industry experience gained while working with Vertex to compete with Vertex. Such competition could increase Vertex’s costs to obtain feedstock, and increase its costs for contracting use of operating assets and services such as third party refining capacity, trucking services or terminal access. Furthermore, such competition could distract or confuse customers, reduce the value of Vertex’s intellectual property and trade secrets, or result in a reduction in the prices Vertex is able to obtain for its finished products. Any of the foregoing could reduce Vertex’s future revenues, earnings or growth prospects. Competition due to advances in renewable fuels may lessen the demand for Vertex’s products and negatively impact its profitability. Alternatives to petroleum-based products and production methods are continually under development. For example, a number of automotive, industrial and power generation manufacturers are developing alternative clean power systems using fuel cells or clean-burning gaseous fuels that may address increasing worldwide energy costs, the long-term availability of petroleum reserves and environmental concerns, which if successful could lower the demand for Vertex’s services. If these non-petroleum based products and oil alternatives continue to expand and gain broad acceptance such that the overall demand for Vertex’s products is reduced, it may not be able to compete effectively in the marketplace. Vertex will rely on new technology to conduct its business, including TCEP, and its technology could become ineffective or obsolete. Vertex will be required to continually enhance and update its technology to maintain its efficiency and to avoid obsolescence. Additionally, Vertex initially plans to rely on the License from CMT in connection with TCEP. TCEP is currently commercially unproven and may not work over the long term in a profitable manner. Currently TCEP is producing at expected levels and producing the quality of product we originally planned to produce; though the total revenues year to date generated by the process have been below our previous estimates, we anticipate that TCEP will be able to continue producing the level and quality of product we originally hoped and that our results of operations will reflect such levels of production as we move forward. Additionally, the costs moving forward of enhancing and updating and/or replicating our technology may be substantial and may be higher than the costs that we anticipated for technology maintenance and development. If Vertex is unable to maintain the efficiency of its technology or replicate its technology, its ability to manage its business and to compete may be impaired. Even if Vertex is able to maintain technical effectiveness, its technology may not be the most efficient means of reaching its objectives, in which case it may incur higher operating costs than it would if its technology was more effective. The impact of technical shortcomings, including but not limited to the failure of TCEP, and/or the costs associated with enhancing or replicating TCEP could have a material adverse effect on Vertex’s prospects, business, financial condition, and results of operations. -24- Vertex’s business is subject to local, legal, political, and economic factors which are beyond its control. Vertex believes that the current political environment for construction of its planned additional re-refining facilities is sufficiently supportive to enable it to plan and implement the construction of such additional re-refining facilities, funding permitting, of which there can be no assurance. However, there are risks that conditions will change in an adverse manner. These risks include, but are not limited to, environmental issues, land use, air emissions, water use, zoning, workplace safety, restrictions imposed on the re-refining industry such as restrictions on production, substantial changes in product quality standards, restrictions on feedstock supply, price controls and export controls. Any changes in financial incentives, investment regulations, policies or a shift in political attitudes are beyond the control of Vertex and may adversely affect its business, plans for future re-refining facilities, and future financial results. If Vertex cannot maintain adequate insurance coverage, it will be unable to continue certain operations. Vertex’s business exposes it to various risks, including claims for causing damage to property and injuries to persons that may involve allegations of negligence or professional errors or omissions in the performance of its services. Such claims could be substantial. Vertex believes that its insurance coverage is presently adequate and similar to, or greater than, the coverage maintained by other similarly situated companies in the industry. If Vertex is unable to obtain adequate or required insurance coverage in the future, or if such insurance is not available at affordable rates, Vertex could be in violation of its permit conditions and other requirements of the environmental laws, rules and regulations under which it operates. Such violations could render Vertex unable to continue certain of its operations. These events could result in an inability to operate certain assets and significantly impair its financial condition. Increases in energy costs will affect Vertex’s operating results and financial condition. Vertex’s production costs will be dependent on the costs of the energy sources used to run its facilities and to procure feedstock. These costs are subject to fluctuations and variations, and Vertex may not be able to predict or control these costs. If these costs exceed Vertex’s expectations, this may adversely affect its results of operations. Vertex’s insurance policies do not cover all losses, costs or liabilities that it may experience. Vertex maintains insurance coverage, but these policies do not cover all of its potential losses, costs or liabilities. Vertex could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks, or in amounts in excess of its existing insurance coverage, which would significantly affect its financial performance. Vertex’s insurance policies also have deductibles and self-retention limits that could expose it to significant financial expense. Vertex’s ability to obtain and maintain adequate insurance may be affected by conditions in the insurance market over which it has no control. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on Vertex’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Vertex’s business requires that it maintain various types of insurance. If such insurance is not available or not available on economically acceptable terms, Vertex’s business would be materially and adversely affected. If Vertex is unable to maintain a line of credit, it could have an adverse effect on Vertex’s business. Our Line of Credit with Bank of America originally came due on September 16, 2011 (as described in greater detail below), but has been extended through March 31, 2012. Vertex relies heavily on the availability and utilization of this line of credit for its operations and for the purchase of inventory. If Vertex is unable to renew or replace this facility it may be forced to curtail or abandon its current and/or future planned business operations. Vertex’s shareholders may have difficulty selling their shares because such shares will likely be deemed “penny stock.” Since the shares of Vertex’s common stock are not listed on a national securities exchange, if the trading price of such shares is below $5.00 per share, trading in such shares will be subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a penny stock (generally, any equity security not listed on a national securities exchange that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions). Such rules require the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally defined as an investor with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 individually or $300,000 together with a spouse). For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to the broker-dealer, current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer’s presumed control over the market. Such information must be provided to the customer orally or in writing before or with the written confirmation of trade sent to the customer. Monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in Vertex’s common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of such shares of common stock and the ability of such holders to sell their shares. -25- The market price of Vertex’s common stock may be adversely affected by market volatility. The market price of Vertex’s common stock is likely to be volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to many factors, including: · actual or anticipated variations in Vertex’s operating results; · developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; · announcements of technological innovations by Vertex or its competitors; · announcements of new products or new contracts by Vertex or its competitors; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts and whether Vertex’s earnings meet or exceed such estimates; · conditions and trends in the industries in which Vertex operates; · changing environmental standards; · new accounting standards; · general economic, political and market conditions and other factors; and · the occurrence of any of the other risks described in this filing. Vertex has established preferred stock which can be designated by the Vertex Board of Directors without shareholder approval and has established Series A preferred stock, which gives the holders a liquidation preference and the ability to convert such shares into Vertex’s common stock. Vertex has 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock authorized which includes 5 million shares of designated Series A preferred stock of which approximately 4.4 million shares are issued and outstanding and 2,000,000 designated shares of Series B preferred stock, of which no shares are outstanding as of the date of this report. The Vertex Series A preferred stock has a liquidation preference of $1.49 per share. As a result, if Vertex were to dissolve, liquidate or sell its assets, the holders of Vertex’s Series A preferred stock would have the right to receive up to the first approximately $6.6 million in proceeds from any such transaction. Consequently, holders of Vertex common stock may receive less consideration or no consideration in connection with such a transaction. Furthermore, the conversion of Series A preferred stock into common stock may cause substantial dilution to Vertex’s common shareholders. Additionally, because Vertex’s Board of Directors is entitled to designate the powers and preferences of the preferred stock without a vote of its shareholders, Vertex’s shareholders will have no control over what designations and preferences Vertex’s future preferred stock, if any, will have. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and therefore only appreciation of the price of our common stock will provide a return to our stockholders. We currently anticipate that we will retain all future earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of our business. We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, capital requirements, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. As a result, only appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may not occur, will provide a return to our stockholders. -26- The market price of our common stock historically has been volatile. The market price of our common stock historically has fluctuated significantly based on, but not limited to, such factors as general stock market trends, announcements of developments related to our business, actual or anticipated variations in our operating results, our ability or inability to generate new revenues, conditions and trends in the industries in which our customers are engaged. In recent years, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price fluctuations that have oftentimes been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Similarly, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly based upon factors unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance. These market fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rates or international currency fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If we are late in filing our Quarterly or Annual reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission or a market maker fails to quote our common stock on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board for a period of more than four days, we may be de-listed from the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board. Pursuant to Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board ("OTCBB") rules relating to the timely filing of periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), any OTCBB issuer which fails to file a periodic report (Form 10-Q or 10-K) by the due date of such report (not withstanding any extension granted to the issuer by the filing of a Form 12b-25), three times during any 24 month period is automatically de-listed from the OTCBB. Such removed issuer would not be re-eligible to be listed on the OTCBB for a period of one year, during which time any subsequent late filing would reset the one-year period of de-listing. Additionally, if a market maker fails to quote our common stock on the OTCBB for a period of more than four consecutive days, we will be automatically delisted from the OTCBB (similar as to how we were automatically delisted from the OTCBB in March 2011, which forced us to take actions to requote our common stock on the OTCBB in May 2011). If we are late in our filings three times in any 24 month and are de-listed from the OTCBB period or are automatically delisted for failure of a market maker to quote our stock, our securities may become worthless and we may be forced to curtail or abandon our business plan. We currently have a sporadic, illiquid, volatile market for our common stock, and the market for our common stock may remain sporadic, illiquid, and volatile in the future. We currently have a highly sporadic, illiquid and volatile market for our common stock, which market is anticipated to remain sporadic, illiquid and volatile in the future and will likely be subject to wide fluctuations in response to several factors, including, but not limited to: (1) actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; (2) our ability or inability to generate revenues; (3) the number of shares in our public float; (4) increased competition; and (5) conditions and trends in the market for oil refining and re-refining services. Furthermore, because our common stock is traded on the Over -The-Counter Bulletin Board, our stock price may be impacted by factors that are unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance. These market fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rates or international currency fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Due to the limited volume of our shares which trade, we believe that our stock prices (bid, ask and closing prices) may not be related to the actual value of the Company, and not reflect the actual value of our common stock. Shareholders and potential investors in our common stock should exercise caution before making an investment in the Company, and should not rely on the publicly quoted or traded stock prices in determining our common stock value, but should instead determine the value of our common stock based on the information contained in the Company's public reports, industry information, and those business valuation methods commonly used to value private companies. Shareholders may be diluted significantly through our efforts to obtain financing and satisfy obligations through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock. Wherever possible, our Board of Directors will attempt to use non-cash consideration to satisfy obligations. In many instances, we believe that the non-cash consideration will consist of restricted shares of our common stock or warrants to purchase shares of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has authority, without action or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of the authorized but unissued shares of common stock or warrants to purchase such shares of common stock. In addition, we may attempt to raise capital by selling shares of our common stock, possibly at a discount to market in the future. These actions will result in dilution of the ownership interests of existing shareholders, may further dilute common stock book value, and that dilution may be material. Such issuances may also serve to enhance existing management’s ability to maintain control of the Company because the shares may be issued to parties or entities committed to supporting existing management. -27- Securities analysts may not cover our common stock and this may have a negative impact on our common stock’s market price. The trading market for our common stock will depend, in part, on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. We do not currently have and may never obtain research coverage by securities and industry analysts. If no securities or industry analysts commence coverage of our Company, the trading price for our common stock would be negatively impacted. If we obtain securities or industry analyst coverage and if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our common stock, changes their opinion of our shares or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease and we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. We may become subject to additional financial and other reporting and corporate governance requirements that may be difficult for or costly for us to satisfy in the event we choose to list our common stock on the American Stock Exchange, Nasdaq Stock Market or similar exchange in the future. We are currently required to file annual and quarterly information and other reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission that are specified in Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; however, the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board, where our common stock is currently quoted does not require that we maintain independent directors or require any other corporate governance requirements for companies to quote their securities and does not charge any annual fees to quote a company’s securities. In the event we decide to list our common stock on the American Stock Exchange, Nasdaq Stock Market or another similar exchange in the future, we will become subject to rules requiring that certain of our Directors be independent, that we pay annual listing and stock issuance fees, that we comply with additional corporate governance requirements and that shareholders approve certain corporate actions and issuances, which obligations we are not currently required to comply with. These obligations will require a commitment of additional resources including, but not limited to additional expenses, and may result in the diversion of our senior management’s time and attention from our day-to-day operations. These obligations may also increase our expenses and/or make it more complicated or time consuming for us to undertake certain corporate actions due to the fact that we may require exchange (or market listing) approval for such transactions and/or such exchange (or market) may require us to obtain shareholder approval for such transactions. In particular, we may be required to: • create or expand the roles and duties of our board of directors, our board committees and management; • appoint new independent directors, including a “financial expert” to the audit committee; • institute a more comprehensive financial reporting and disclosure compliance function; • establish additional controls and procedures for compliance with required listing rules and regulations; and/or • establish new internal policies. We may not be successful in complying with these obligations, and compliance with these obligations could be time-consuming and expensive. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to limitation. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, substantial changes in our ownership may limit the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that could be utilized annually in the future to offset our taxable income. Specifically, this limitation may arise in the event of a cumulative change in ownership of our Company of more than 50% within a three-year period. Any such annual limitation may significantly reduce the utilization of our net operating loss carryforwards before they expire. Transactions that may occur in the future may trigger an ownership change pursuant to Section 382, and prior transactions may be deemed to have triggered an ownership change pursuant to Section 382, the result of which could limit the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that we can utilize annually to offset our taxable income, if any. Any such limitation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. -28- ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 