ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. The following information sets forth risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements we have made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and those we may make from time to time. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operation, prospects or financial condition could be harmed. These are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also affect our business operations. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of operating losses. We expect to incur net losses and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. With the exception of 1996, we have not been profitable since our inception in 1986. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $922.7 million. To date, our revenue from product sales has been in the form of royalty payments from Amgen on sales of Sensipar (cinacalcet HCl), royalty payments from Nycomed on sales of Preotact, royalty payments from Kyowa Kirin on sales of REGPARA, milestone revenue from our collaborative agreements with Nycomed, product sales to Nycomed and beginning in 2009, royalty payments on sales of Nucynta by Ortho-McNeil. In July 2007, we entered into an agreement with Nycomed whereby they assumed sole responsibility for manufacturing Preotact. As described further herein, we have non-recourse debt that is secured by our royalty rights related to sales of Sensipar under our agreement with Amgen. In addition, we have sold to DRI and an affiliate of DRI our rights to receive royalty payments under our agreements with Nycomed and Kyowa Kirin for Preotact and REGPARA, respectively. The right to royalties on Amgen's Sensipar sales will only be returned to us if those royalties are sufficient to repay our non-recourse Class A Notes and Class B Notes on a timely basis. The right to royalties on Nycomed's Preotact sales and Kyowa Kirin's REGPARA sales will only be returned to us if the amount of royalties received by the purchasers exceed two and a half times the amount paid to us. We are entirely dependent on Amgen, Nycomed and Kyowa Kirin for sales of Sensipar, Preotact and REGPARA, respectively, and we cannot assure that they will pay royalties in amounts sufficient to cause the royalty rights to be returned to us. Other than the royalty payments we receive from Ortho-McNeil, we are not currently receiving any cash inflows, including from royalty payments or product sales, and it is possible that we will never have sufficient product sales revenue to achieve profitability. We expect to continue to incur losses for at least the next several years as we and our collaborators and licensees pursue clinical trials and research and development efforts. To become profitable, we, alone or with our collaborators and licensees, must successfully develop, manufacture and market our current product candidates and continue to identify, develop, manufacture and market new product candidates. It is possible that we will never have significant product sales revenue or receive significant royalties on our licensed product candidates to achieve profitability. 20 Pursuant to the Company's license agreement with Amgen, so long as a patent infringement proceeding by a third party against Amgen continues for the manufacture, use or sale of a compound under the agreement in any country, Amgen may reserve up to 50% of the royalties otherwise payable by Amgen with respect to the affected compound in the country in question until the proceedings are concluded. If the third party's patent is finally determined to be uninfringed, unenforceable or invalid, Amgen is required to promptly pay the reserved royalties to the Company. If the third party's patent is held to be valid and infringed or if Amgen enters into a settlement of such infringement claim, then Amgen may deduct any damages or settlement amount with respect to such claim from the reserved royalties prior to payment of any remaining amount. In the event any damages and/or settlement amounts exceed the amount of reserved royalties, Amgen could withhold such excess from its future royalty obligations in that country. If Amgen reserves or reduces the royalties paid on Sensipar sales as a result of a third party claim, our ability to repay the non-recourse Class A and Class B Notes on a timely basis could be adversely affected. In addition, if any such claim is successful or if Amgen settles the claim, the right to receive future royalty payments on the sales of Sensipar may never be returned to us. For example, on May 20, 2009, Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd which we refer to collectively as Teva filed a lawsuit in federal court in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against Amgen alleging that certain processes used by Amgen to manufacture Sensipar (cinacalcet HCl) infringe Teva's U.S. Patent No. 7,449,603. Teva is seeking declaratory relief and damages in an unspecified amount. As described above, so long as a patent infringement proceeding by a third party against Amgen continues for the manufacture, use or sale of cinacalcet HCl in any country, Amgen may reserve up to fifty percent of the royalties otherwise payable to the Company with respect to cinacalcet HCl sales in the country in question until the proceeding is concluded. To date, Amgen has elected to not reserve any such royalties. If Teva's patent is determined to be uninfringed, unenforceable or invalid, Amgen is required to promptly pay any reserved royalties to the Company. If Teva's patent is held to be valid and infringed, or if Amgen enters into a settlement of Teva's infringement claim, then Amgen may deduct any damages or settlement amount with respect to such claim from the reserved royalties prior to payment of any remaining amount. In the event any damages and/or settlement amounts exceed the amount of reserved royalties, Amgen could withhold such excess from its future royalty obligations in that country. Amgen filed a motion to dismiss the complaint, in part, based on Amgen's claim that the Court lacks subject matter jurisdiction over Teva U.S. On July 22, 2009, an amended complaint was filed by Teva Israel against Amgen. Teva U.S. is not named as a plaintiff in the amended complaint. We may require additional funds. Currently, we are not a self-sustaining business and certain economic, operational and strategic factors may require us to secure additional funds. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funding at any time in the future, we may not be able to develop or commercialize our products, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. Our current and anticipated operations require substantial capital. We expect that our existing cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments will sufficiently fund our current and planned operations through at least 2010. However, our future capital needs will depend on many factors, including the extent to which we enter into collaboration agreements with respect to any of our proprietary product candidates, receive royalty and milestone payments from our collaborators and make progress in our development and commercialization activities. Our capital requirements will also depend on the magnitude and scope of these activities, our ability to maintain existing and establish new collaborations, the terms of those collaborations, the success of our collaborators in developing and marketing products under their respective collaborations with us, our ability to effectively out-source our clinical development, regulatory, data management, research, quality control and assurance, and other activities, the success of our contract manufacturers in producing clinical and commercial supplies of our product candidates and drug delivery devices on a timely basis and in sufficient quantities to meet our requirements, competing technological and market developments, the time and cost of obtaining regulatory approvals, the cost of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent and other rights and our success in acquiring and integrating complementary products, technologies or companies. We do not have committed external sources of funding, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional funds on acceptable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to: engage in equity financings that would be dilutive to current stockholders; delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our development programs; obtain funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to technologies, product candidates or products that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves; or 21 license rights to technologies, product candidates or products on terms that are less favorable to us than might otherwise be available. In addition, the capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption which, particularly during the latter part of 2008 through 2009, has led to uncertainty and liquidity issues for both borrowers and investors. In the future, we may not be able to obtain capital market financing on favorable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we do not receive regulatory approval to market our product candidates in a timely manner, or at all, or if we obtain regulatory approval to market those product candidates but the approved label is not competitive with then existing competitive products, our business will be materially harmed and our stock price may be adversely affected. We are developing teduglutide and NPSP558 as a potential treatment for SBS and hypoparathyroidism, respectively. We are currently advancing Phase 3 registration quality studies for both product candidates. For more information, see "Item 1 - Business - Proprietary Product Candidates." While we presently believe that we have the financial resources to fund the continued development of these product candidates in the U.S., all clinical trials are long, expensive and uncertain processes and there can be no assurance that data collected from these studies will be sufficient to support a new drug application, or NDA, or obtain FDA approval once the studies are completed. Our ability to generate revenues to sustain our operations will be substantially impaired and our business will be materially harmed if our Phase 3 study for either of our product candidates fails to produce the required safety and efficacy data to support an NDA for that product candidate or obtain regulatory approval by the FDA. If we are ultimately unable to obtain regulatory approval to commercialize any one of our product candidates in a timely manner, or at all, or if the FDA approved indication, side effect and adverse events profile, and product distribution requirements are not competitive with existing competitor products: Our ability to generate revenues to sustain our operations will be substantially impaired, which would increase the likelihood that we would need to obtain additional financing for our other development efforts; Our reputation among investors might be harmed, which might make it more difficult for us to obtain equity capital on attractive terms or at all; and Our profitability would be delayed, our business will be materially harmed and our stock price may be adversely affected. Biotechnology stock prices, including our stock price, have declined significantly in certain instances where companies have failed to meet expectations with respect to FDA approval or the timing for FDA approval. We may never develop any more commercial drugs or other products that generate revenues. Sensipar (Mimpara in Europe), REGPARA in Japan, Preotact and Nucynta are our only sources, to date, of commercial revenues. Our remaining product candidates will require significant additional development, clinical trials, regulatory approvals and additional investment before their commercialization. Our product development efforts may not lead to commercial drugs for a number of reasons, including our inability to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective in clinical trials or a lack of financial or other resources to pursue the programs through the clinical trial process. Even if we are able to commercialize one or more of our product candidates, we cannot assure you that such product candidates will find acceptance in the medical community. Our dependence on contract research organizations could result in delays in and additional costs for our drug development efforts. We rely almost entirely on contract research organizations, or CROs, to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials for drug candidates that we choose to develop without a collaborator. If the CROs that we hire to perform our preclinical testing and clinical trials or our collaborators or licensees do not meet deadlines, do not follow proper procedures, or a conflict arises between us and our CROs, our preclinical testing and clinical trials may take longer than expected, may be delayed or may be terminated. If we were forced to find a replacement CRO to perform any of our preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may not be able to find a suitable replacement on favorable terms, if at all. Even if we were able to find another CRO to perform a preclinical test or clinical trial, any material delay in a test or clinical 22 trial may result in significant additional expenditures that could adversely affect our operating results. Events such as these may also delay regulatory approval for our drug candidates or our ability to commercialize our products. In addition, we may enter into agreements with collaborators or licensees to advance certain of our drug candidates through the later-stage, more expensive clinical trials, rather than invest our own resources to conduct these clinical trials. Depending on the terms of our agreements with these collaborators or licensees, we may have little or no control over the manner in which these clinical trials are conducted, and would be subject to other risks that are similar to those associated with our reliance on CROs, as described above. We depend exclusively on third parties, including a number of sole suppliers, for the manufacture, supply, and storage of our product candidates and drug delivery devices; if these third parties fail to supply us with sufficient quantities of products and devices on a timely basis, or if the products and devices they provide do not meet our specifications, our clinical trials and product introductions may be delayed or suspended We do not have the internal manufacturing capabilities to produce the supplies of teduglutide and NPSP558 that are needed to support clinical trials or the commercial launch of these products, if they are approved. We also do not have internal manufacturing capabilities to produce supplies of the injection devices used to administer teduglutide and NPSP558. We are dependent on third parties for the manufacture, supply, and storage of our product candidates and injection devices. If we are unable to contract for a sufficient supply of our product candidates or injection devices on acceptable terms, or if we encounter delays or difficulties in the manufacturing or supply process we may not have sufficient product or injection devices to conduct or complete our clinical trials or to support the commercial launch of our product candidates, if approved. We depend on a number of contract manufacturers to supply key components of teduglutide and NPSP558. For a description of our agreements with these manufacturers, see "Item 1. - Business - Manufacturing." Although we anticipate that our contract manufacturers will be able to produce the raw materials and finished products that we require, the process for manufacturing biological products is complex and no assurances can be provided that our manufacturers will be able to produce the required quantities in a timely manner or at all. We have experienced certain instances where our contract manufacturers have produced product and injection devices that have not met our required specifications and could not be used in clinical trials or for commercialization. Any extended disruption or termination of our relationship with any of our contract manufacturers could materially harm our business and financial condition and adversely affect our stock price. Dependence on contract manufacturers for commercial production involves a number of additional risks, many of which are outside our control. These additional risks include: • there may be delays as manufacturers scale-up to quantities needed for clinical trials and the commercial launch of our product candidates; manufacturers may be unable to manufacture such quantities to our specifications, or to deliver such quantities on the dates we require; • our current and future manufacturers are subject to ongoing, periodic, unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and international regulatory authorities for compliance with strictly enforced cGMP regulations and similar foreign standards, and we are unable to ensure their compliance with these regulations and standards; • our current and future manufacturers may not be able to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, which would prohibit them from manufacturing products or drug delivery devices for us; • if we need to change to other commercial manufacturing contractors, the FDA and comparable foreign regulators must first approve these contractors, which would require new testing and compliance inspections, and the new manufacturers would have to be educated in, or themselves develop substantially equivalent processes necessary for, the production of our products and drug delivery devices; • our manufacturers might not be able to fulfill our commercial needs, which would require us to seek new manufacturing arrangements that could result in substantial delays and higher costs; and • we may not have intellectual property rights, or may have to share intellectual property rights, to any improvements in the manufacturing processes or new manufacturing processes for our products or drug delivery devices. 23 Any of these factors could cause us to delay or suspend clinical trials, regulatory submission, required approvals or commercialization of our products under development, entail higher costs and result in our inability to commercialize our products effectively. In addition, if we receive regulatory approval for NPSP558 for hypoparathyroidism, in order to successfully commercialize our product, we will need to develop an injection device for this indication. There is no guarantee that we will be able to develop an injection device and find a supplier to adequately supply our potential commercial needs. We are subject to extensive government regulations that may cause us to cancel or delay the introduction of our products to market. Our business is subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the U.S. and other countries. Prior to marketing in the United States, a drug must undergo rigorous testing and an extensive regulatory approval process implemented by the FDA under federal law, including the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. To receive approval, our collaborators or we must demonstrate, among other things, with substantial evidence from well-controlled clinical trials that the product is both safe and effective for each indication where approval is sought. Depending upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product and the nature of the disease or disorder to be treated, the approval process can take several years and require substantial expenditures. Data obtained from testing are susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals of our products. Drug testing is subject to complex FDA rules and regulations, including the requirement to conduct human testing on a large number of test subjects. Our collaborators, the FDA or we may suspend human trials at any time if a party believes that the test subjects are exposed to unacceptable health risks. We cannot assure you that any of our product candidates will be safe for human use. Other countries also have extensive requirements regarding clinical trials, market authorization and pricing. These regulatory requirements vary widely from country to country, but, in general, are subject to all of the risks associated with U.S. approvals. If any of our products receive regulatory approval, the approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is safe and effective, as demonstrated through clinical trials. In addition, results of preclinical studies and clinical trials with respect to our products could subject us to adverse product labeling requirements that could harm the sale of such products. Even if regulatory approval is obtained, later discovery of previously unknown problems may result in restrictions of the product, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Further, governmental approval may subject us to ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies. Even if we obtain governmental approval, a marketed product, its respective manufacturer and its manufacturing facilities are subject to unannounced inspections by the FDA and must comply with the FDA's cGMP and other regulations. These regulations govern all areas of production, record keeping, personnel and quality control. If a manufacturer fails to comply with any of the manufacturing regulations, it may be subject to, among other things, product seizures, recalls, fines, injunctions, suspensions or revocations of marketing licenses, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Other countries also impose similar manufacturing requirements. Our promotional materials and sales activities are governed by FDA regulation. The FDA may require us to withdraw promotional material, to issue corrected material, or to cease promotion resulting in loss of credibility with our customers, reduced sales revenue or increased costs. Steps similar to those in the U.S. must be undertaken in virtually every other country comprising the market for our product candidates before any such product can be commercialized in those countries. The approval procedure and the time required for approval vary from country to country and may involve additional testing. There can be no assurance that approvals will be granted on a timely basis, or at all. Clinical trials are long, expensive and uncertain processes; if the data collected from preclinical and clinical trials of our product candidates are not sufficient to support approval by the FDA, our profitability and stock price could be adversely affected. Before we receive regulatory approval for the commercial sale of our product candidates, our product candidates are subject to extensive preclinical testing and clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy. Clinical trials are long, expensive and uncertain processes. Clinical trials may not be commenced or completed on schedule, and the FDA may not ultimately approve our product candidates for commercial sale. Further, even if the results of our preclinical studies or clinical trials are initially positive, it is possible that we will obtain different results in the later stages of drug development or that results seen in clinical trials will not continue with longer-term treatment. Drugs in late stages of clinical development may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. For example, positive results in early Phase 1 or Phase 2 clinical trials may not be repeated in larger Phase 2 or Phase 3 clinical trials. All of our potential drug 24 candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. The clinical trials of any of our drug candidates, including teduglutide and NPSP558, could be unsuccessful, which would prevent us from commercializing the drug. Our failure to develop safe, commercially viable drugs would substantially impair our ability to generate revenues and sustain our operations and would materially harm our business and adversely affect our stock price. If we fail to maintain our existing or establish new collaborative relationships, or if our existing collaborations fail, or if our collaborators do not devote adequate resources to the development and commercialization of our licensed drug candidates, we may have to reduce our rate of product development and may not see products brought to market or be able to achieve profitability. Our strategy for developing, manufacturing and commercializing our products includes entering into various relationships with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to advance many of our programs. We have granted development, commercialization and marketing rights to a number of our collaborators for some of our key product development programs, including cinacalcet HCl, Preotact, teduglutide and calcilytics. Our collaborators typically have full control over those efforts in their territories and the resources they commit to the programs. Accordingly, the success of the development and commercialization of product candidates in those programs depends on the efforts of our collaborators and is beyond our control. For us to receive any significant milestone or royalty payments from our collaborators, they must advance drugs through clinical trials, establish the safety and efficacy of our drug candidates, obtain regulatory approvals and achieve market acceptance of those products. As a result, if a collaborator elects to terminate its agreement with us with respect to a research program, our ability to advance the program may be significantly impaired or we may elect to discontinue funding the program altogether. For example, in early 2002, Abbott terminated its agreement with respect to isovaleramide, and Forest Laboratories terminated its agreement with us with respect to ALX-0646. As a result, these programs were discontinued. As an additional example, in September 2008, we were notified by GSK that it has decided to terminate a Phase 2 dose-range finding study of ronacaleret in post-menopausal women with osteoporosis earlier than expected due to an observed lack of efficacy based on lumbar spine and hip bone mineral density. The counterparties to certain of our collaborative research, development or commercial agreements have the right to terminate those agreements prior to their expiration after providing us with the requisite notice. See the description of these agreements under "Item 1 - Business - Royalty-Based Products and Product Candidates." As part of our product development and commercialization strategy, we evaluate whether to seek collaborators for our product candidates. If we elect to collaborate, we may not be able to negotiate collaborative arrangements for our product candidates on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to establish collaborative arrangements, we will either need to increase our expenditures and undertake the development and commercialization activities at our own expense or delay further development of the affected product candidate. Collaborative agreements, including our existing collaborative agreements, pose the following risks: • our contracts with collaborators may be terminated and we may not be able to replace our collaborators; • the terms of our contracts with our collaborators may not be favorable to us in the future; • our collaborators may not pursue further development and commercialization of compounds resulting from their collaborations with us or may pursue the same on a different regulatory pathway from us; • a collaborator with marketing and distribution rights to one or more of our product candidates may not commit enough resources to the marketing and distribution of such candidates; • disputes with our collaborators may arise, leading to delays in or termination of the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates, or resulting in significant litigation or arbitration; • contracts with our collaborators may fail to provide significant protection if one or more of them fail to perform; • in some circumstances, if a collaborator terminates an agreement, or if we are found to be in breach of our obligations, we may be unable to secure all of the necessary intellectual property rights and regulatory approval to continue developing the same compound or product; • our collaborators could independently develop, or develop with third parties, drugs that compete with our products; and • we may be unable to meet our financial or other obligations under our collaborative agreements. We cannot assure you that our current or future collaborative efforts will be successful. If our collaborative efforts fail, our business and financial condition would be materially harmed. 25 We have limited marketing and sales experience and have never distributed a product and may need to rely on third parties to successfully market and sell our products and generate revenues. We do not have commercial sales and related field operations. As a result, if and when we receive regulatory approval to market and sell one or more of our product candidates we will have to either build a commercial organization or enter into agreements with contract sales organizations to provide sales, marketing, market research and product planning services. Our ability to gain market acceptance and generate revenues will be substantially dependent upon our ability to build a commercial organization and/or enter into such agreements on favorable terms and to manage the efforts of those service providers successfully. We may also benefit from establishing a relationship with one or more companies with existing distribution systems and direct sales forces to market any or all of our product candidates; however, we cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into or maintain agreements with these companies on acceptable terms, if at all. Because of the uncertainty of pharmaceutical pricing, reimbursement and healthcare reform measures, we or our licensees may be unable to sell our products profitably. The availability of reimbursement by governmental and other third-party payers affects the market for any pharmaceutical product. These third-party payers continually attempt to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare. There have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system and further proposals are likely. Medicare's policies may decrease the market for our products that are designed to treat patients with age-related disorders, such as hyperparathyroidism. Significant uncertainty exists with respect to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. In addition, third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services. We might not be able to sell our products profitably or recoup the value of our investment in product development if reimbursement is unavailable or limited in scope, particularly for product candidates addressing small patient populations, such as teduglutide for the treatment of short bowel syndrome and NPSP558 for hypoparathyroidism. In addition, in some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. We expect that there will continue to be a number of U.S. federal and state proposals to implement governmental pricing controls. While we cannot predict whether such legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the adoption of such proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profitability. On July 15, 2008, the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 became law with a number of Medicare and Medicaid reforms to establish a bundled Medicare payment rate that includes services and drug/labs that are currently separately billed. The bundled reimbursement rate will be phased in over a four year period in equal increments starting in 2011. It is possible that some providers could elect to move to a full Medicare bundled payment in 2011. Additionally, one proposal on healthcare reform being considered by Congress calls for the inclusion of certain oral drugs such as Sensipar® (cinacalcet HCl) as part of the end stage renal disease Program of Medicare bundled payment beginning in 2011. Bundling initiatives that have been implemented in other healthcare settings have occasionally resulted in lower utilization of services that had not previously been a part of the bundled payment. We cannot speculate on the sales impact to Sensipar based on the proposed rule and at this time cannot predict whether a final bill on healthcare reform would include Sensipar in the bundled payment. Because of intense competition and technological change in the pharmaceutical industry, the marketplace may not accept our products, and we may not be able to compete successfully against other companies in our industry and achieve profitability. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are intensely competitive, with many companies in our industry having substantially greater financial and management resources, superior intellectual property positions and greater manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities, areas in which we have limited or no experience. In addition, many companies have significantly greater experience than we do in undertaking preclinical testing and clinical trials of new or improved pharmaceutical products and obtaining required regulatory approvals. Consequently, potential future competitors may obtain FDA and other regulatory approvals for product candidates sooner and may be more successful in manufacturing and marketing their products than we or our collaborators, which could render our product candidates obsolete and non-competitive. 26 Existing and future products, therapies and technological approaches may compete directly with the products we seek to develop. Prospective competing products may provide greater therapeutic benefits for a specific problem, may offer easier delivery or may offer comparable performance at a lower cost. Any product candidate that we develop and that obtains regulatory approval must then compete for market acceptance and market share. Our product candidates may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payers and the medical community. Further, any products we develop may become obsolete before we recover any expenses we incurred in connection with the development of these products. As a result, we may never achieve profitability. We may be unable to obtain patents to protect our technologies from other companies with competitive products, our patents may be challenged or circumvented by third parties, and patents of other companies could prevent us from manufacturing, developing or marketing our products. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has not established a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims that it will allow in biotechnology patents. If it allows broad claims, the number and cost of patent interference proceedings in the U.S. and the risk of infringement litigation may increase. If it allows narrow claims, the risk of infringement may decrease, but the value of our rights under our patents, licenses and patent applications may also decrease. In addition, the scope of the claims in a patent application can be significantly modified during prosecution before the patent is issued. Consequently, we cannot know whether our pending applications will result in the issuance of patents or, if any patents are issued, whether they will provide us with significant proprietary protection or will be circumvented, invalidated, or found to be unenforceable. Until recently, patent applications in the U.S. were maintained in secrecy until the patents were issued, and publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind discoveries. Patent applications filed in the U.S. after November 2000 generally will be published 18 months after the filing date unless the applicant certifies that the invention will not be the subject of a foreign patent application. We cannot assure you that, even if published, we will be aware of all such literature. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that the named inventors of our products and processes were the first to invent that product or process or that we were the first to pursue patent coverage for our inventions. Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to maintain and enforce our proprietary rights. If third parties engage in activities that infringe our proprietary rights we may incur significant costs in asserting our rights. We may not be successful in asserting our proprietary rights, which could result in our patents being held invalid or a court holding that the third party is not infringing, either of which would harm our competitive position. In addition, we cannot assure you that others will not design around our patented technology. Moreover, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or other analogous proceedings in other parts of the world to determine priority of invention and the validity of patent rights granted or applied for, which could result in substantial cost and delay, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us. We cannot assure you that our pending patent applications, if issued, would be held valid or enforceable. Additionally, many of our foreign patent applications have been published as part of the patent prosecution process in such countries. Protection of the rights revealed in published patent applications can be complex, costly and uncertain. Additionally, under the Hatch-Waxman Act, a generic pharmaceutical manufacturer may file an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, seeking permission to market a generic version of one of our products prior to the expiration of our relevant patents. For example, on June 15, 2008, we reported the receipt of Paragraph IV certification notification letters related to ANDA's submitted to the FDA by Barr Laboratories and Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. requesting approval to market and sell generic versions of cinacalcet HCl. Such a filing is an act of patent infringement and resulted in our filing patent infringement litigation to enforce our proprietary rights. In order to protect goodwill associated with our company and product names, we rely on trademark protection for our marks. We have registered the "PREOS" and "GATTEX" trademarks with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. A third party may assert a claim that one of those marks is confusingly similar to its mark, and such claims or the failure to timely register a mark or objections by the FDA could force us to select a new name for our product candidates, which could cause us to incur additional expense or delay the introduction of a product candidate to market. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and confidentiality provisions in our agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants to protect our intellectual property. However, these and other parties may not comply with the terms of their agreements with us, and we might be unable to adequately enforce our rights against these people or 27 obtain adequate compensation for the damages caused by their unauthorized disclosure or use. Our trade secrets or those of our collaborators may also become known or may be independently discovered by others. We granted security interests in our intellectual property in connection with the agreements to monetize Preotact and REGPARA, and these security interests could be enforced against us if we default on these agreements. In connection with our July 2007 agreement with DRI Capital, or DRI (formerly Drug Royalty L.P.3) to monetize Preotact, we granted DRI a security interest in the our license agreement with Nycomed for Preotact and certain of our patents related to Preotact and other intellectual property underlying that agreement. In the event of a default by NPS under the agreement with DRI, DRI would be entitled to enforce its security interest against us and the property described above. If DRI validly enforced its security interest, we could potentially lose rights to our Preotact intellectual property. In addition, in connection with our February 2010 agreement with an affiliate of DRI or DRI, we granted DRI a security interest in our license agreement with Kyowa Kirin and certain of our patents related to REGPARA and other intellectual property underlying that agreement. In the event of a default by NPS under the agreement with DRI, DRI would be entitled to enforce its security interest against us and the property described above. If DRI validly enforced its security interest, we could potentially lose rights to our REGPARA intellectual property. If the market opportunities for our product candidates are smaller than we believe they are, then our revenues may be adversely affected and our business may suffer. Each of the diseases that our product candidates are being developed to address is relatively rare. Our projections of both the number of people who have these diseases, as well as the subset of people with these diseases who have the potential to benefit from treatment with our product candidates, are based on estimates. Currently, most reported estimates of the prevalence of these diseases are based on studies based on small numbers or small subsets of the population of specific geographic areas, which are then extrapolated to estimate the prevalence of the diseases in the broader world population. If our estimates of the prevalence of short bowel syndrome or hypoparathyroidism, or of the number of patients who may benefit from treatment with our product candidates prove to be incorrect, the market opportunities for our product candidates may be smaller than we believe they are and our prospects for generating revenue may be adversely affected and our business may suffer. Our products and product candidates may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which could increase our costs and negatively affect our profitability. Our success also depends on avoiding infringement of the proprietary technologies of others. In particular, there may be certain issued patents and patent applications claiming subject matter that our collaborators or we may be required to license in order to research, develop or commercialize at least some of our product candidates, including teduglutide, NPSP558 and PREOS. In addition, third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us based on our patents or other intellectual property rights. An adverse outcome in these proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease or modify our use of the technology. If we are required to license such technology, we cannot assure you that a license under such patents and patent applications will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Further, we may incur substantial costs defending ourselves in lawsuits against charges of patent infringement or other unlawful use of another's proprietary technology. Because of reductions in our workforce related to our prior restructuring activities, we have reallocated certain employment responsibilities and have increased our dependence on third parties to perform certain corporate functions. We restructured our operations, which included reductions in our workforce as well as a transition to an outsourcing business strategy. The reductions resulted in the loss of numerous long-term employees, the loss of institutional knowledge and expertise and the reallocation of certain employment responsibilities, all of which could adversely affect operational efficiencies, employee performance and retention. In addition, because of these reductions, we are outsourcing certain corporate functions, which makes us more dependent on third parties for the performance of these functions in connection with our business and product candidates. To the extent that we are unable to effectively reallocate employee responsibilities, retain key employees, establish and maintain agreements with competent third-party contractors on terms that are acceptable to us, or effectively manage the work performed by any retained third- 28 party contractors, our ability to advance our business or product candidates may be significantly impaired and our stock price may be adversely affected. If we fail to attract and retain key executives and employees, the development and commercialization of our products may be adversely affected. We depend heavily on our executive, managerial and clinical personnel. To the extent that we lose any of these key personnel, our ability to develop products and become profitable may suffer. The risk of being unable to retain key personnel may be increased by the fact that, other than with respect to our CEO, we have not entered into long-term employment contracts with our executives or employees. Our future success will also depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain qualified executives and employees in the future. We face competition for personnel from other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. In particular, we are highly dependent on members of our executive team to manage our business. In connection with our transition to an outsourcing business strategy, certain members of our executive team are no longer with the company and new executive team members have been hired. Our transition in expertise, as with any company, will take time and resources and may result in unexpected expense and delay to our business programs. Each member of our executive team is highly qualified, important to our business and would be difficult to replace. We are also dependent on several key employees who would also be difficult to replace. If we are unable to retain our executives and key employees, our ability to operate under the outsourcing business model and compete in our industry may be hindered and our business may suffer. Each of our executives and key employees is an employee at will and, despite our retention efforts; we cannot assure you that they will remain with the company. If product liability claims are brought against us or we are unable to obtain or maintain product liability insurance, we may incur substantial liabilities that could reduce our financial resources. The clinical testing and commercial use of pharmaceutical products involves significant exposure to product liability claims. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trial in humans; however, our insurance coverage may be insufficient to protect us against all product liability damages. Further, liability insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and we might not be able to obtain or maintain product liability insurance in the future on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts to protect us against product liability damages. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in decreased demand for a future product, injury to our reputation, withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers, loss of revenue, costs of litigation, distraction of management and substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs. Additionally, if we are required to pay a product liability claim, we may not have sufficient financial resources to complete development or commercialization of any of our product candidates and our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Research and development involves hazardous materials and we must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. Research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, radioactive compounds and other potentially dangerous chemicals and biological agents. Although we believe our contractors' safety procedures for these materials comply with governmental standards, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. We currently have insurance, in amounts and on terms typical for companies in businesses that are similarly situated, that could cover all or a portion of a damage claim arising from our use of hazardous and other materials. However, if an accident or environmental discharge occurs, and we are held liable for any resulting damages, the associated liability could exceed our insurance coverage and our financial resources. 29 Risks Related to Our Common Stock and Notes Payable Our stock price has been and likely will continue to be volatile and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. You should consider an investment in our common stock as risky and invest only if you can withstand a significant loss and wide fluctuations in the market value of your investment. We receive only limited attention by securities analysts and frequently experience an imbalance between supply and demand for our common stock. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile. Factors affecting our common stock price include: • fluctuations in our operating results; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us, our collaborators or our competitors; • published reports by securities analysts; • the progress of our and our collaborators' clinical trials, including our and our collaborators' ability to produce clinical supplies of our product candidates on a timely basis and in sufficient quantities to meet our clinical trial requirements; • governmental regulation and changes in medical and pharmaceutical product reimbursement policies; • developments in patent or other intellectual property rights; • publicity concerning the discovery and development activities by our licensees; • public concern as to the safety and efficacy of drugs that we and our competitors develop; • our ability to meet market expectations with respect to FDA approval or the timing for FDA approval for our product candidates; and. • general market conditions. Anti-takeover provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, stockholder rights plan and under Delaware law may discourage or prevent a change of control. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws and Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law could delay or prevent a change of control of us. For example, our Board of Directors, without further stockholder approval, may issue preferred stock that could delay or prevent a change of control as well as reduce the voting power of the holders of common stock, even to the extent of losing control to others. In addition, our Board of Directors has adopted a stockholder rights plan, commonly known as a "poison pill," that may delay or prevent a change of control. Substantial future sales of our common stock by us or by our existing stockholders could cause our stock price to fall. Additional equity financings or other share issuances by us could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. From time to time we may issue our previously authorized and unissued securities, including shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. We have an effective shelf registration statement from which additional shares of our common stock and other securities can be issued at any time. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock in connection with future strategic alliances or acquisitions, future private placements of our securities for capital raising purposes or for other business purposes. In addition, existing shareholders could sell a large number of our shares into the public market. Future issuances or sales of our common stock, or the perception that such issuances or sales could occur, could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. Royalty revenues received from Amgen on sales of cinacalcet HCl may not be sufficient to cover the interest and principal payments on our Class A Notes and Class B Notes; we would have to either voluntarily make such payments out of available cash resources or risk forfeiture of certain royalty rights under the Amgen agreement. Our outstanding Class A Notes and Class B Notes are non-recourse to us and are secured by our royalty and milestone payment rights under our agreement with Amgen. Until the Class A Notes and Class B Notes are repaid, all payments from Amgen will go to the payment of interest and principal on the notes If the revenues received from 30 Amgen are insufficient to cover the interest and other payments due under the notes, we would have to forfeit our rights to future royalties and other rights under the Amgen agreement, unless we make the payments due out of our available cash resources. If we make the payments, our cash resources would be significantly reduced and we may not have sufficient cash resources to fund our programs and operations. The principal amount of the Class B Notes will increase through the issuance of additional notes in lieu of payment of cash interest until the Class A Notes are paid in full. Our liquidity and future cash flow may not be sufficient to cover interest payments on our 5.75% Convertible Notes due 2014 or to repay the notes at maturity. Our ability to make interest payments on and to repay at maturity or refinance our 5.75% convertible notes due 2014 or the Convertible Notes, will depend on our ability to maintain sufficient cash and generate future cash flow. Other than in 2007, we have never generated positive annual cash flow from our operating activities, and we may not generate or sustain positive cash flows from operations in the future. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow will depend on our ability to commercialize our proprietary product candidates in the U.S. and the ability of our partners to commercialize and successfully market our partnered products throughout the world. We cannot assure you that we, or our partners, will be successful in developing, commercializing and marketing our product candidates. Various factors such as general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory conditions may affect our and our partners' ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates and thereby limit our ability to generate future cash flow to repay our Convertible Notes. Additionally, the Convertible Notes provide for certain events of default, including payment defaults, breaches of covenants and certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency and reorganization. If any event of default occurs and is continuing, the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, may be declared immediately due and payable. The notes also provide that if a fundamental change occurs to our business, as defined in the note, at any time prior to the maturity of the note, then the holder shall have the right to require us to redeem the notes, or any portion thereof plus accrued interest and liquidated damages. There can be no assurance that, if any of the foregoing events were to occur, we would have the ability repay the principal amount and interest accrued under the notes and/or any additional monies owed in connection with the acceleration of the notes. Conversion of the Convertible Notes will dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their notes. The conversion of some or all of our outstanding Convertible Notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants. Changes in interest rates can affect the fair value of our investment portfolio and the debt we have issued and its interest earnings. Our interest rate risk exposure results from our investment portfolio and our secured notes. Our primary objectives in managing our investment portfolio are to preserve principal, maintain proper liquidity to meet operating needs and maximize yields. The securities we hold in our investment portfolio are subject to interest rate risk. At any time, sharp changes in interest rates can affect the fair value of the investment portfolio and its interest earnings. Currently, we do not hedge these interest rate exposures. We have established policies and procedures to manage exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. We place our investments with high quality issuers, limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer, and do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. The fair value of the Convertible Notes is affected by changes in the interest rates and by changes in the price of our common stock. The fair values of our Class A and Class B Notes are affected by changes in the interest rates and by historical and future rates of royalty revenues from cinacalcet HCl sales. The fair value of our DRI debt is affected by changes in the interest rates and by historical and future rates of royalty revenues from Preotact sales. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports or publish unfavorable research about our business, the price of our common stock and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If securities or industry analysts do not continue coverage of us the trading price for our common stock would be negatively affected. In the event we obtain securities or industry analyst coverage, if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our common stock, the price of our common stock 31 would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover us or fails to publish regular reports on us, interest in the purchase of our common stock could decrease, which could cause the price of our common stock or trading volume to decline. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 