ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS OCCUR, OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OR FUTURE GROWTH COULD SUFFER. YOU SHOULD ALSO REFER TO THE OTHER INFORMATION IN THIS REPORT, INCLUDING OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE RELATED NOTES. WE FACE DELAYS IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF OUR TECHNOLOGY, WE NEED TO DEVELOP AND/OR ACQUIRE NEW TECHNOLOGIES, AND ANY TECHNOLOGY WE USE MAY NOT WORK AS WELL AS EXPECTED, IF AT ALL, OR EVER BE ECONOMICALLY VIABLE. We need to develop or identify and acquire technologies to enable us to continue to pursue our current business strategy. The successful application of technology to waste materials at a large scale and high volumes to create commercially usable renewable electricity, bio-fuels or other products has yet to be proven. In particular, most of the gasification technologies that we are aware of are in the very early stages of commercialization. Any inability to operate in a manner that will produce large volumes of commercially usable products would require additional investment in capital equipment and/or increased operating expenses beyond currently contemplated business and construction plans. Unforeseen difficulties in the development or market acceptance of any products we may produce may lead to significant delays in production and the subsequent generation of revenue. We will need to raise additional financing which, if not available, could force us to curtail or cease operations altogether. IF WE FAIL TO IMPLEMENT NEW TECHNOLOGIES, WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO KEEP UP WITH OUR INDUSTRY, WHICH COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE AFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. We plan to develop and acquire technologies designed to enable us to execute our current business strategy. Our ability to generate revenue, and achieve profitability and future growth is dependent on our ability to improve our knowledge and implementation of waste processing and energy development technologies. Inability to successfully implement commercially viable waste processing technologies, as a result of insufficient capital or otherwise, will have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Even if we are successful in developing or acquiring new technologies, there can be no assurance that such technologies will work as expected or be economically viable. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO OBTAIN THE LARGE AMOUNT OF ADDITIONAL CAPITAL THAT WE NEED TO EXECUTE OUR BUSINESS PLAN. Our business plan includes the construction and operation of large plants and the development and\or acquisition of new technologies. Each plant is expected to cost between $50 million and $70 million. We anticipate that we will fund the construction and startup operation of these plants through the sale of securities, the issuance of debt or entering into joint venture arrangements. We may be unable to raise the additional funds necessary or enter into joint ventures to build and operate these additional plants. You should not rely on the prospect of future financings or joint venture arrangements in evaluating us. Any additional funding or joint venture arrangements that we obtain will likely significantly reduce the percentage ownership of the company held by our existing stockholders. The amount of this dilution will likely be substantial as our trading price has declined significantly and may continue to decline. OUR LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY MAKES IT DIFFICULT TO PREDICT FUTURE RESULTS. We are in the development stage and are subject to all the business risks associated with a new enterprise, including uncertainties regarding product development, constraints on our financial and personnel resources, and dependence on and need for third party relationships. For the period from June 18, 2002 (inception) to December 31, 2007, we incurred total net losses of approximately $70.0 million. To date, we have not generated substantial revenues and do not know when or whether we will be able to develop meaningful sources of revenue or whether our operations will become profitable, even if we are able to begin generating sufficient revenue. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue, we would need to develop a new business plan or curtail or cease operations completely. The auditors' report with respect to our financial statements for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006 includes an explanatory paragraph wherein they expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include any adjustment that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties. THE MARKET FOR SERVICES AND PRODUCTS IN THE WASTE PROCESSING AND RENEWABLE ENERGY INDUSTRY IS COMPETITIVE, AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY. The market for services and products in the waste processing industry is highly competitive. Most of these competitors have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have, and may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or changing opportunities and customer requirements. Also, our competitors have greater name recognition and extensive customer bases that they can leverage to gain market share. These competitors are able to undertake promotional activities, adopt aggressive pricing policies and offer attractive terms to purchasers, which could adversely affect our competitive position and business. 6 WE ARE TO SEEK TO ENGAGE IN STRATEGIC TRANSACTIONS THAT MAY FAIL TO ENHANCE STOCKHOLDER VALUE. We are in the process of evaluating strategic alternatives, including the acquisitions of products, technologies and companies, and other alternatives within and outside of our industry, with the goal of maximizing stockholder value. We may never complete a strategic transaction(s) and in the event that we do complete a strategic transaction(s), it may not be consummated on terms favorable to us. Further, such transactions may impair stockholder value or otherwise adversely affect our business. Any such transaction may require us to incur non-recurring or other charges and may pose significant integration challenges and/or management and business disruptions, any of which could harm our results of operation and business prospects. IF WE DO NOT OBTAIN A SIGNIFICANT SUPPLY OF WASTE MATERIAL AND TIMELY PAYMENT FOR THAT WASTE MATERIAL, OUR OPERATING RESULTS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. If we do not obtain a supply of waste material at quantities and qualities that are sufficient to operate any facilities that we may in the future operate at the expected operating levels, or if third parties do not promptly pay for the waste material they deliver to us for processing, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. One or more of the following factors could impact the price and supply of waste: o defaults by waste suppliers under their contracts; o changing composition of the material in the waste stream; o composting or incineration of municipal solid waste; o legal prohibitions against processing of certain types of solid waste in our facilities; or o increased competition from landfills and increasingly automated recycling facilities. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO OBTAIN OR RETAIN PERMITS THAT ARE REQUIRED TO OPERATE OUR BUSINESS. Our failure to obtain or retain the permits required to operate any facilities we may seek to construct would have a material negative effect on our business operations. Permits to operate waste processing facilities have become increasingly difficult and expensive to obtain and retain as a result of many factors including numerous hearings and compliance with zoning, environmental and other regulatory measures. The granting of these permits is also often subject to resistance from citizen or other groups and other political pressures. Our failure to obtain or retain the required permits to operate any future facilities could have a material negative effect on our future results of operations. THE DEMAND FOR OUR SERVICES MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS. To a certain extent, demand for our services is expected to be created by environmental laws and regulations, including (a) regulations surrounding the production of renewable energy, (b) requirements to safely dispose of waste materials by various methods including in properly constructed and operated landfills, (c) requirements to attempt to recycle a certain proportion of waste materials, and (d) requirements that businesses operating in the waste material industry comply with applicable land, water and air emission regulations. The lack of environmental laws and regulations, or the loosening or non-enforcement of existing regulations, would decrease demand for our services and may have a material adverse affect on our business. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN OR SUSTAIN MARKET ACCEPTANCE FOR OUR SERVICES AND PRODUCTS. We do not intend to engage in advertising during our development phase. Failure to establish a brand and presence in the marketplace on a timely basis could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We may fail to successfully complete the development and introduction of new products or product enhancements, and new products that we develop may not achieve acceptance in the marketplace. We may also fail to develop and deploy new products and product enhancements on a timely basis. Any of the foregoing could require us to revise our business plan, raise additional capital or curtail operations. OUR SUCCESS WILL DEPEND ON OUR ABILITY TO PROTECT OUR PROPRIETARY TECHNOLOGY. Our success will depend, to a significant degree, upon the protection of our, and that of our potential licensors', proprietary technologies. Additionally, the need to pursue additional protections for our intellectual property is likely as new products and techniques are developed and as existing products are enhanced, and such protections may not be attained in a timely manner or at all. 7 Legal fees and other expenses necessary to obtain and maintain appropriate patent protection in the U.S. could be material. Insufficient funding may inhibit our ability to obtain and maintain such protection. Additionally, if we must resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights, or those of our licensors', the proceedings could be burdensome and expensive and could involve a high degree of risk to our proprietary rights if we are unsuccessful in, or cannot afford to pursue, such proceedings. We also rely on trade secrets and contract law to protect certain of our proprietary technology. If any of our contracts is breached or if any of our trade secrets becomes known or independently discovered by third parties, we could face significant increased competition and our business could be harmed. If other persons independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and know-how, the result could be significant increased competition for our services we may in the future provide. In addition, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or other proprietary rights from third parties. If we are unable to obtain such licenses on acceptable terms, we may encounter delays in product development or find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses could be foreclosed. OUR REVENUES AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS WILL FLUCTUATE. Our revenues and results of operations will vary from quarter to quarter in the future. A number of factors, many of which are outside our control, may cause variations in our results of operations, including: o demand and price for our products; o the timing and recognition of product sales; o unexpected delays in developing and introducing products; o unexpected delays in building and permitting our processing facilities; o unexpected downtime in operations to maintain or improve equipment; o increased expenses, whether related to plant operations, marketing, product development or administration or otherwise; o the mix of revenues derived from products; o the hiring, retention and utilization of personnel; o waste collection companies being impacted by seasonal and cyclical changes and facing competition, work stoppages and environmental issues that could adversely affect our business and operations; o general economic factors; and o changes in the revenue recognition policies required by generally accepted accounting principles. THE LOSS OF KEY EXECUTIVES AND THE FAILURE TO ATTRACT QUALIFIED MANAGEMENT COULD LIMIT OUR GROWTH AND NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR OPERATIONS. We depend highly upon our senior management team. We will continue to depend on operations management personnel with waste handling experience. At this time, we do not know the availability of such experienced management personnel or how much it may cost to attract and retain such personnel. The loss of the services of any member of senior management or the inability to hire experienced operations management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. We do not have an employment agreement with our CEO. OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY CHANGING RESALE PRICES OR MARKET REQUIREMENTS FOR OUR FUTURE PRODUCTS. The resale price for our renewable energy products will likely be tied to commodity pricing. Our results of operations may in the future be adversely affected by changing resale prices or market requirements for these products. The resale, and market demand for, these materials can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond our control, which may cause significant variability in our period-to-period results of operations. 8 ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS AND LITIGATION COULD SUBJECT US TO FINES, PENALTIES, JUDGMENTS AND LIMITATIONS ON OUR ABILITY TO EXPAND. We are subject to potential liability and restrictions under environmental laws, including those relating to handling, recycling, treatment, storage of wastes, discharges to air and water, and the remediation of contaminated soil, surface water and groundwater. We also expect to be subject to liability under laws relating to the production of electricity and bio-fuels that we may produce in the future. The waste management industry has been, and will continue to be, subject to significant regulation, including permitting and related financial assurance requirements, as well as to attempts to further regulate the industry through new legislation. Our business is subject to a wide range of federal, state and, in some cases, local environmental, odor and noise and land use restrictions and regulations. If we are not able to comply with the requirements that apply to a particular facility or if we operate without necessary approvals, we would be subject to civil, and possibly criminal, fines and penalties, and we might be required to spend substantial capital to bring operations into compliance or to temporarily or permanently discontinue operations, and/or take corrective actions. We may not have sufficient insurance coverage for our environmental liabilities. Those costs or actions could be significant to us and significantly impact our results of operations, as well as our available capital. In addition to the costs of complying with environmental laws and regulations, if governmental agencies or private parties brought environmental litigation against us, we would likely incur substantial costs in defending against such actions. We may be, in the future, a defendant in lawsuits brought by parties alleging environmental damage, personal injury, and/or property damage. A judgment against us, or a settlement by us, could harm our business, our prospects and our reputation. FUTURE COSTS UNDER ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND SAFETY LAWS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. We could be liable if our future operations cause environmental damage to our properties or to the property of other landowners, particularly as a result of the contamination of drinking water sources or soil. Under current law, we could even be held liable for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired the assets or operations involved. Any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. WE MAY EXPERIENCE A SIGNIFICANT DECLINE IN THE REALIZABLE VALUE OF CERTAIN OF OUR INVESTMENTS. Approximately $4.9 million of our securities are in the form of auction rate securities. As a result of general economic conditions, these type of securities have recently been the subject of significant uncertainty as to liquidity and underlying interest rates. If the value of these securities declines, our financial condition would be adversely affected. WE MAY BE EXPOSED TO SUBSTANTIAL LIABILITY CLAIMS IN THE ORDINARY COURSE OF OUR BUSINESS. Since our personnel will be expected to routinely handle waste materials, we may be subject to liability claims by employees, customers and third parties. We currently have liability insurance in place, but such insurance may not be adequate to cover claims asserted against us. Also, we may be unable to maintain or purchase such insurance in the future. Either of these events could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition or our ability to raise additional capital. 9 CLAIMS BY OTHER COMPANIES THAT WE INFRINGE THEIR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. If any of our products or processes is found to violate third party intellectual property rights, we may be required to re-engineer one or more of those products or processes or seek to obtain licenses from third parties to continue offering our products or processes without substantial re-engineering, and such efforts may not be successful. We may be unable to obtain such licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. Failure to do so could result in significant curtailment of our operations. Future patents may be issued to third parties upon which our technology may infringe. We may incur substantial costs in defending against claims under any such patents. Furthermore, parties making such claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which effectively could block our ability to further develop or commercialize some or all of our products or services, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. In the event of a claim of infringement, we may be required to obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We may be unable to obtain such licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any such license could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. SUBSTANTIAL SALES OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO FALL. As of March 19, 2008, we had outstanding approximately 28 million shares of common stock and approximately 17 million shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of our outstanding preferred stock, as well as options and warrants to acquire up to an additional approximately 7 million shares of common stock. A substantial portion of these shares are either freely tradable shares or eligible for public resale under Rule 144. In addition, we currently have an effective registration statement on file with the SEC which covers the resale of approximately 32 million shares of our common stock (which includes shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of our preferred stock). Sales of the shares subject to Rule 144 or the registration statement, or the possibility that substantial amounts of common stock may be sold in the public market under Rule 144 or the registration statement, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. THE LIMITED MARKET FOR OUR COMMON STOCK MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT TRADING PRICES OR THE ABILITY OF A SHAREHOLDER TO SELL OUR SHARES IN THE PUBLIC MARKET. Our common stock is thinly-traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common stock at or near ask prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including that we are a small company that is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and would likely be reluctant to follow an unproven, early stage company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we became more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. SHAREHOLDERS MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY SELLING THEIR SHARES BECAUSE OUR SHARES ARE DEEMED "PENNY STOCKS." Since our common stock is not listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, if the trading price of our common stock remains below $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock will continue to be subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a penny stock (generally, any non-Nasdaq equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions). Such rules require the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally defined as an investor with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 individually or $300,000 together with a spouse). For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to the broker-dealer, current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer's presumed control over the market. Such information must be provided to the customer orally or in writing before or with the written confirmation of trade sent to the customer. Monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of our common stock and the ability of holders of our common stock to sell their shares. 10 THE HOLDERS OF OUR PREFERRED STOCK HAVE CERTAIN RIGHTS THAT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE VALUE OF OUR COMMON STOCK AND OUR ABILITY TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL. Under our articles of incorporation, our board of directors has the power, without further action by the holders of our common stock, to designate the relative rights and preferences of the preferred stock, and to issue the preferred stock in one or more series as designated by our board of directors. The designation of rights and preferences could include preferences as to liquidation, redemption and conversion rights, voting rights, dividends or other preferences, any of which may be dilutive of the interest of the holders of our common stock or the preferred stock of any other series. The issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company without further stockholder action and may adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of the holders of our common stock. We currently have two such series of preferred stock, designated as "8% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Convertible Participating Preferred Stock" and "8% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Convertible Participating Preferred Stock." The holders of a majority of the shares of each such series of Preferred Stock have the option to require our company to redeem all outstanding shares of each such series on April 10, 2010, at a price equal to the original issuance price (with accrued but unpaid dividends being treated as outstanding for purposes of calculating the total redemption price). Based on the number of shares of Preferred Stock outstanding as of December 31, 2007, the total redemption payment obligation would equal approximately $47.3 million. In addition, certain issuances by our company of equity at below specified prices will trigger the "anti-dilution" provisions in the Preferred Stock that would result in significant dilution to our common stockholders. The foregoing provisions of the Preferred Stock will likely have a material impact on our company's ability to raise additional capital or enter into merger and acquisition transactions. The rights, preferences and privileges of our preferred stock are described in more detail in Note 7 of our financial statements. OUR DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND THEIR AFFILIATES HOLD A SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF OUR COMMON STOCK AND MAY BE ABLE TO PREVENT OTHER STOCKHOLDERS FROM INFLUENCING SIGNIFICANT CORPORATE DECISIONS. Our directors and executive officers and their affiliates beneficially own a substantial amount of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, if they were to act together, would likely be able to direct the outcome of matters requiring approval ( and subject to approval rights of the holders of our preferred stock) of the stockholders, including the election of our directors and other corporate actions such as: o our merger with or into another company; o a sale of substantially all of our assets; and o amendments to our articles of incorporation. The decisions of these stockholders may conflict with our interests or those of our other stockholders. In addition, the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock currently have the right, upon 30 days' prior notice to us, to appoint a majority of the members of our Board of Directors. This right will remain in effect until less than 3.0 million shares of Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding. As of the date of this Report, such right has not been exercised. THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR STOCK MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY MARKET VOLATILITY. The market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to many factors, including: o actual or anticipated variations in our operating results due to the level of development expenses and other factors; o developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; o announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; o announcements of new products or new contracts by us or our competitors; o changes in financial estimates by securities analysts and whether our earnings meet or exceed such estimates; o conditions and trends in the waste industry and other industries; o changing environmental standards; 11 o new accounting standards; o general economic, political and market conditions and other factors; and o the occurrence of any of the other risks described in this report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 