ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones faced by the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial also may impair the Company’s business operations. If any of the following risks occur, the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Unless otherwise specified or the context otherwise requires, references below to (1) “the Company” refer to Barnes & Noble, Inc. and its subsidiaries, (2) “Retail business” refer to the Company’s business included in the Retail segment, (3) “Digital business” refer to the Company’s business included in the Digital segment, including the sales of digital content, devices and accessories and (4) “College business” refer to the Company’s business included in the College segment, including Barnes & Noble College Booksellers, LLC. The Company’s businesses are dependent on the overall economic environment and consumer spending patterns. A deterioration of the current economic environment could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and operating results, as well as the Company’s ability to fund its growth or its strategic business initiatives. The Retail business’s and the Digital business’s sales are primarily dependent upon discretionary consumer spending, which is affected by the overall economic environment, consumer confidence and other factors beyond its control. In addition, the Retail and Digital business’s sales are dependent in part on the strength of new release products which are controlled by publishers and other suppliers. The College business’s sales are also affected by the overall economic environment. A deterioration of the current economic environment could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and 23 Table of Contents operating results of the College business, as well as the ability of the College business to fund its growth and strategic business initiatives. The College business is affected by funding levels at colleges and universities and by changes in enrollments at colleges and universities, changes in student enrollments and lower spending on textbooks and general merchandise. The growth of the College business depends on its ability to attract new students and to increase the level of engagement by existing students. To the extent the College business is unable to attract new students or students spend less generally, the College business could be adversely affected. Because of the Company’s existing penetration of attractive retail locations and the maturity of the market for traditional retail stores, the Company’s sales or net income may decline unless it successfully implements its business strategies. The Company’s primary business is its operation of the Retail business’s stores across the United States, and it derived a majority of its sales from the Retail business’s stores in its most recent fiscal year. Management generally believes that the Retail business’s stores are located in attractive geographic markets, and generally does not have a strategy to open retail stores in new geographic markets or to expand the total number of retail stores, and expects to close more retail stores than it opens. Management’s strategies are subject to the risks described herein and elsewhere, and may be subject to other risks that have not yet been identified, and management cannot make assurances that its business strategies will be successful. The complexity of the Company’s businesses could place a significant strain on its management, operations, performance and resources. The complexity of the Company’s businesses could place a significant strain on its management, operations, technical performance, financial resources, and internal financial control and reporting functions. The Company operates three different businesses: the College business, the Retail business, and the Digital business. NOOK Media LLC (NOOK Media) also has obligations under its commercial agreement with Pearson plc (Pearson). There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to manage the complexity of its businesses effectively. The Company’s current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support and effectively manage its future operations, especially as it employs personnel in multiple geographic locations. The Company may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage the required personnel, which may limit its growth. If any of these were to occur, it could damage the Company’s reputation, limit growth, negatively affect operating results and harm its business. The Company faces the risk of disruption of supplier relationships and/or supply chain and/or inventory surplus. The products that the Company sells originate from a wide variety of domestic and international vendors. During fiscal 2015, the Retail business’s five largest suppliers accounted for approximately 65 percent of the dollar value of merchandise purchased. During fiscal 2015, the College business’s five largest suppliers accounted for approximately 50 percent of its merchandise purchased. While the Company believes that its relationships with its suppliers are strong, suppliers may modify the terms of these relationships due to general economic conditions or otherwise. The Company does not have long-term arrangements with most of its suppliers to guarantee availability of merchandise, content, components or services, particular payment terms or the extension of credit limits. If the Company’s current suppliers were to stop selling merchandise, content, components or services to it on acceptable terms, including as a result of one or more supplier bankruptcies due to poor economic conditions, the Company may be unable to procure the same merchandise, content, components or services from other suppliers in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, certain of our merchandise, including electronic readers, are sourced, directly or indirectly, from outside the United States, including, without limitation, from suppliers in China. Political or financial instability, merchandise quality issues, product safety concerns, trade restrictions, work 24 Table of Contents stoppages, tariffs, foreign currency exchange rates, transportation capacity and costs, inflation, civil unrest, natural disasters, outbreaks of pandemics and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control and could disrupt our supply of foreign-sourced merchandise and/or adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, the Retail business and the College business are each dependent on the continued supply of trade books, in the case of the Retail business, and textbooks, in the case of the College business. The publishing industry generally has suffered recently due to, among other things, changing consumer preferences away from the print medium and the economic climate. A significant disruption in this industry generally could adversely impact the Company’s business. A significant unfavorable change in the Company’s relationships with key suppliers could materially adversely affect its sales and profits. In addition, any significant change in the payment terms that the Company has with its key suppliers, including, payment terms, return policies, the discount or margin on products or changes to the distribution model of textbooks could adversely affect its financial condition and liquidity. The Company has arrangements with third-party manufacturers. These manufacturers procure and assemble unfinished parts and components from third-party suppliers based on forecasts provided by the Company. Given production lead times, commitments may be made far in advance of finished product delivery. In addition, on June 4, 2014, NOOK Digital, LLC entered into a commercial agreement with Samsung Electronics America, Inc. under which NOOK Digital has agreed to a minimum purchase commitment of 1,000,000 NOOK-Samsung co-branded devices during the first twelve months after the launch of the initial co-branded devices, which occurred on August 20, 2014. The 12-month period was automatically extended by three months due to the quantity of sales of such co-branded devices through December 31, 2014, and the period was further extended until June 30, 2016 by an amendment executed by the parties on March 7, 2015. Sales shortfalls (including with respect to the co-branded NOOK devices) or incorrect forecasts or estimates by the Company may result in higher than anticipated levels of unfinished goods or finished goods inventories, which may impact the Company’s results of operations and liquidity. The Company’s businesses rely on certain key personnel. Management believes that the Company’s continued success will depend to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of certain key personnel of the Company. The loss of the services of any of these key personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company does not maintain “key man” life insurance on any of its officers or other employees. The Company’s businesses could be adversely impacted if it is unsuccessful in making and integrating acquisitions it has made or may decide to pursue. To enhance the Company’s efforts to grow and compete, from time to time it has engaged in acquisitions and entered into joint ventures, and it may engage in acquisitions or enter into joint ventures in the future. Any future acquisitions are subject to the Company’s ability to identify attractive opportunities and to negotiate favorable terms for them. Accordingly, the Company cannot make assurances that future acquisitions will be completed, or that if completed, they will be successful. These transactions may create risks such as: (1) disruption of the Company’s ongoing business, including loss of management focus on existing businesses; (2) the dilution of the equity interest of the Company’s stockholders; (3) problems retaining key personnel; (4) increased debt to finance any transaction and additional operating losses, debt and expenses of the businesses the Company acquires; (5) the difficulty of integrating a new company’s accounting, financial reporting, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; (6) the difficulty of implementing at acquired companies the controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company; and (7) potential unknown liabilities associated with an acquired company. In addition, valuations supporting the Company’s acquisitions could change rapidly given the current global economic climate. The Company could determine that such valuations have experienced impairments or other-than-temporary declines in fair value, which could adversely impact its financial condition. 25 Table of Contents The Company’s businesses are seasonal. The Company’s businesses are seasonal. For the Company’s businesses other than the College business, sales are generally highest in the third fiscal quarter and lowest in the second and fourth fiscal quarters. For fiscal 2015, 34% of sales and 79% of operating income of the Retail business were generated in its third fiscal quarter. Operating results in the Company’s businesses other than the College business depend significantly upon the holiday selling season in the third fiscal quarter. The College business is also seasonal, with sales generally highest in the second and third fiscal quarters, when college students generally purchase textbooks for the upcoming semesters, and lowest in the first and fourth fiscal quarters. Less than satisfactory net sales during our peak fiscal quarter could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or operating results for the year, and the Company’s results of operations from those quarters may not be sufficient to cover any losses which may be incurred in the other fiscal quarters of the year. The Company’s results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which could affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter depending upon several factors, some of which are beyond its control. These factors include the timing of new product releases, weather, the level of success of the Company’s product releases, the timing of store openings and closings, the addition or termination of the College business contracts to manage bookstores for colleges and universities, the timing of the start of college and university semesters, shifts in the timing of certain promotions and the effect of impairments on the Company’s assets. These and other factors could affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, and this makes the prediction of the Company’s financial results on a quarterly basis difficult. The Company’s quarterly financial results have been and may in the future be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. The Company may not be able to adequately protect its intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing upon intellectual property rights of third parties. The Company regards its trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology and similar intellectual property as important to its success, and it relies on trademark, copyright and patent law, domain name regulations, trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements to protect its proprietary rights. Laws and regulations may not adequately protect its trademarks and similar proprietary rights. The Company may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or diminish the value of its trademarks and other proprietary rights. The Company may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of its proprietary rights. The protection of the Company’s intellectual property may require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, the steps it takes to protect its intellectual property may not adequately protect its rights or prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating its proprietary rights. The Company also cannot be certain that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology or other intellectual property rights. Other parties also may claim that the Company infringes their proprietary rights. Because of the changes in Internet commerce, the electronic reader and digital content business, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible that certain components of our products and business methods may unknowingly infringe existing patents or intellectual property rights 26 Table of Contents of others. Because the Company’s products include complex technology, much of which is acquired from suppliers through the purchase of components or licensing of software, the Company and its suppliers and customers are and have been involved in or have been impacted by assertions, including both requests for licenses and litigation, regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. The Company has been and is currently subject to, and expects to continue to be subject to, claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement by it of the intellectual property rights of third parties. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, may result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against the Company prohibiting the Company from marketing or selling certain products or the payment of damages. The Company may need to obtain licenses from third parties who allege that it has infringed their rights, but such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to the Company, or at all. In addition, the Company may not be able to obtain or utilize on terms that are favorable to it, or at all, licenses or other rights with respect to intellectual property it does not own in providing services to other businesses and individuals under commercial agreements. These risks have been amplified by the increase in third parties whose primary business appears to be to assert such claims. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against the Company by any third-party is successful, if the Company is required to indemnify a customer with respect to a claim against the customer, or if the Company is unable to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, the Company’s business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. The Company’s digital content offerings, including NOOK®, depend in part on effective digital rights management technology to control access to digital content. If the digital rights management technology that it uses is compromised or otherwise malfunctions, the Company could be subject to claims, and content providers may be unwilling to include their content in its service. The Company faces data security risks with respect to personal information. The Company’s business involves the receipt, storage, processing and transmission of personal information about customers and employees. Personal information about customers is obtained in connection with the Company’s membership programs, eCommerce operations, digital media businesses as well as through retail transactions in stores operated by the Company. The Company’s online operations and the Digital business depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. We may share information about such persons with vendors and third parties that assist with certain aspects of our business. Also, in connection with the College business’s student financial aid platform and the processing of university debit cards, we secure and have access to certain student personal information that has been provided to us by the universities we serve. The Company’s handling and use of personal information is regulated at the international, federal and state levels. Privacy and information security laws, regulations, and standards such as the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard change from time to time, and compliance with them may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes and the development of new processes and may be difficult to achieve. If the Company fails to comply with these laws, regulations and standards, it could be subjected to legal risk. Also, hardware, software or applications developed or procured internally or from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. In addition, even if the Company fully complies with all laws, regulations, and standards and even though the Company has taken significant steps to protect personal information, the Company could experience a data security breach, and its reputation could be damaged, possibly resulting in lost future sales or decreased usage of credit and debit card products. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, the Company may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. A party that is able to circumvent the Company’s security measures could misappropriate the Company or its users’ proprietary information and cause interruption in its operations. Any compromise of the Company’s data security 27 Table of Contents could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws or standards, significant legal and financial exposure beyond the scope or limits of insurance coverage, increased operating costs associated with remediation, negative publicity, equipment acquisitions or disposal and added personnel, and a loss of confidence in its security measures, which could harm the business or investor confidence. Data security breaches may also result from non-technical means, for example, actions by an employee. The Company has incurred data security breaches in the past, including the Company’s discovery in 2012 that PIN pads in certain of its stores had been tampered with to allow criminal access to card data and PIN numbers on credit and debit cards swiped through the terminals. This matter has given rise to putative class action litigation on behalf of customers, banks, or other card issuers, and inquiries from federal and state government agencies. It is possible that additional litigation arising out of this matter may be filed on behalf of customers, banks, payment card companies or stockholders seeking damages allegedly arising out of this incident and other related relief. In addition, payment card companies and associations may impose fines by reason of the tampering and federal and state enforcement authorities may impose penalties or other remedies against the Company. At this point the Company is unable to predict the developments in, outcome of, and economic and other consequences of pending or future litigation or government inquiries related to this matter. The concentration of the Company’s capital stock ownership with certain executive officers, directors and their affiliates will limit its stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and may involve other risks. Leonard Riggio, the Company’s Founder and Chairman, and Stephen Riggio, are brothers and together are currently the beneficial owners of an aggregate of approximately 19.9% of the Company’s outstanding capital stock as of May 2, 2015, a majority of which is beneficially owned solely by Leonard Riggio. This concentrated control may limit the ability of the Company’s other stockholders to influence corporate matters and, as a result, the Company may take actions with which its other stockholders do not agree. In addition, there may be risks related to the relationships Leonard Riggio, Stephen Riggio and other members of the Riggio family have with the various entities with which the Company has related party transactions. The Company’s businesses could be impacted by changes in international, federal, state or local laws, rules or regulations. Changes in international, federal, state or local laws, rules or regulations, including but not limited to laws, rules or regulations related to employment, wages, data privacy, information security, intellectual property, taxes, products, product safety, health and safety, and imports and exports, could increase the Company’s costs of doing business or otherwise impact the Company’s business. Changes in sales and other tax collection regulations or inability of the Company to utilize tax credits or assets, could harm the Company’s businesses or financial performance. The Retail business, the College business and the Digital business collected sales tax on the majority of the products and services that they sold in their respective prior fiscal years that were subject to sales tax, and they generally have continued the same policies for sales tax within the current fiscal year. While management believes that the financial statements included elsewhere herein reflect management’s best current estimate of any potential additional sales tax liability based on current discussions with taxing authorities, there can be no assurance that the outcome of any discussions with any taxing authority will not result in the payment of sales taxes for prior periods or otherwise, or that the amount of any such payments will not be materially in excess of any liability currently recorded. In the future, the Company’s businesses may be subject to claims for not collecting sales tax on the products and services it currently sells for which sales tax is not collected. There is a risk that existing tax credits and tax assets may not be utilized or may expire. 28 Table of Contents The Company’s announced authorization of the separation of Barnes & Noble Education, Inc. from Barnes & Noble into two separate public companies. On February 26, 2015 the Company announced plans for the legal and structural separation of Barnes & Noble Education from the Company into an independent public company (the Spin-Off). The Company’s Board of Directors has authorized management of the Company to take steps to separate Barnes & Noble Education from Barnes & Noble into two separate public companies. However, there can be no assurance regarding the ultimate timing of any separation, the form or terms of any separation or that any separation will in fact, be completed. Any separation of Barnes & Noble Education and Barnes & Noble into two separate public companies will be subject to customary regulatory approvals, securing any necessary financing, final approval of the Barnes & Noble Board of Directors and other customary matters and is dependent on numerous factors that include the macroeconomic environment, credit markets and equity markets. There is also the potential that a separation may result in various adverse impacts on the Company and its businesses including, without limitation, the risk that any separation by the Company of its interests in Barnes & Noble Education cannot be implemented, the risk that the separation does not achieve the expected benefits for the parties, the risk that the separation of Barnes & Noble Education has an adverse impact on the Company’s retail business, the risk of potential adverse tax consequences for the Company and its shareholders, the risk that Barnes & Noble Education is not able to perform its obligations under its commercial agreements with Pearson, and the consequences thereof, the costs and disruptions arising out of any such separation, risks, difficulties, and uncertainties that may result from the separation of businesses that were previously co-mingled including necessary ongoing relationships, and potential for adverse customer impacts. Moreover, the form or nature of the Spin-Off may have an adverse impact on the operations of the Company’s retail businesses and its stock price. The Spin-Off of Barnes & Noble Education could result in significant tax liability to the Company and its stockholders. The Spin-Off is conditioned on the Company’s receipt of written opinions of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP and KPMG LLP to the effect that the Spin-Off will qualify for non-recognition of gain and loss to the Company and its stockholders. These opinions do not address any U.S. state or local or foreign tax consequences of the Spin-Off. The opinion assumes that the Spin-Off will be completed according to the terms of the Separation Agreement and rely on the facts as stated in the Separation Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement, the other ancillary agreements, the Barnes & Noble Education Prospectus and a number of other documents. In addition, the opinion is based on certain representations as to factual matters from, and certain covenants by, the Company and Barnes & Noble Education. The opinions cannot be relied on if any of the assumptions, representations or covenants are incorrect, incomplete or inaccurate or are violated in any material respect. The opinions are not binding on the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or the courts, and we cannot assure you that the IRS or a court will not take a contrary position. If the Spin-Off were determined not to qualify for non-recognition of gain and loss, U.S. Holders could be subject to tax. In this case, each U.S. Holder who receives the Barnes & Noble Education Common Stock in the Spin-Off would generally be treated as receiving a distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of Barnes & Noble Education Common Stock received, which would generally result in (i) a taxable dividend to the U.S. Holder to the extent of that U.S. Holder’s pro rata share of the Company’s current and accumulated earnings and profits; (ii) a reduction in the U.S. Holder’s basis (but not below zero) in the Company’s common stock to the extent the amount received exceeds the stockholder’s share of the Company’s earnings and profits; and (iii) a taxable gain from the exchange of the Company’s common stock to the extent the amount received exceeds the sum of the U.S. Holder’s share of the Company’s earnings and profits and the U.S. Holder’s basis in its common stock. 29 Table of Contents If the Spin-Off were determined not to qualify for non-recognition of gain and loss, then the Company would recognize gain in an amount up to the fair market value of the Barnes & Noble Education stock held by the Company immediately before the Spin-Off. The Company’s classified Board of Directors and other anti-takeover defenses could deter acquisition proposals and make it difficult for a third-party to acquire control of the Company. This could have a negative effect on the price of the Company’s common stock. The Company has a classified Board of Directors and other anti-takeover defenses in its certificate of incorporation and by-laws. These defenses could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company. These deterrents could adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock and make it difficult to remove or replace members of the Board of Directors or management of the Company. The Company’s previous shareholder rights plan expired on November 17, 2012 and was not replaced. The Board may, subject to its fiduciary duties under applicable law, choose to implement a shareholder rights plan in the future. The Company’s business is subject to the risks of international operations. The Company, which has historically limited its operations to the United States, has begun to conduct operations internationally, including in China. There is no assurance that any investment by the Company to expand its operations internationally will be successful. In particular, the Company may continue to pursue plans to sell the NOOK® device internationally. However, the terms of any agreements that are reached with international partners may not be advantageous to the Company. The NOOK® device may require technological changes to comply with applicable foreign laws. It also may not be accepted in a particular marketplace where other companies may have already entered with products that have achieved some customer acceptance. Compliance with U.S. and foreign laws and regulations that apply to international operations, including without limitation import and export requirements, anti-corruption laws, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, labor laws, and anti-competition regulations, increases the costs of doing business in foreign jurisdictions, and any such costs, which may rise in the future as a result of changes in these laws and regulations or in their interpretation. There can be no assurance that the Company’s employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or the Company’s policies with respect to foreign operations. Intense competition from traditional retail sources, the Internet and suppliers of digital content and hardware may adversely affect the Company’s businesses. The book business is highly competitive in every channel in which the Company operates. The Retail business’s stores compete primarily on the quality of the shopping and store experience and the price and availability of products. The importance of price varies depending on the competitor, with some of the Retail business’s competitors engaging in significant discounting and other promotional activities. NOOK® competes primarily with other tablets and eBook readers on functionality, consumer appeal, availability of digital content and price. The Retail business competes with large bookstores including Books-A-Million and smaller format bookstores. The Retail business also faces competition from mass merchandisers, such as Costco, Target and Wal-Mart. The Retail business’s stores also compete with specialty retail stores that offer books in particular subject areas, independent store operators, variety discounters, drug stores, warehouse clubs, mail-order clubs and other retailers offering books, music, toys, games, gifts and other products in its market segments. The Company faces competition from many online businesses, notably Amazon.com and Apple. Increases in consumer spending via the Internet may significantly affect its ability to generate sales in the Retail business’s stores. Some of the Company’s competitors may have greater financial and other resources and different business strategies than the Company does. The music and DVD businesses are 30 Table of Contents also highly competitive, and the Company faces competition from mass merchants, discounters, the Internet and digital distribution. The Company faces competition from the expanding market for digital content and hardware, including without limitation digital books or “eBooks” and eBook readers. New and enhanced technologies, including new digital technologies and new web services technologies, may increase the Company’s competition. Competition may also intensify as the Company’s competitors enter into business combinations or alliances or established companies in other market segments expand into its market segments. Increased competition may reduce the Company’s sales and profits. The Company faces additional operating risks through the operation of the Digital business. The Company faces risks related to the operation of the Digital business. The Digital business’s content sales decreased during fiscal 2015 and may continue to decline in the future, which could affect the Company’s results of operations and liquidity. Also, the sales of digital devices and accessories declined during fiscal 2015, and there is no guarantee that the possible introduction of future NOOK® digital devices (including NOOK® co-branded devices under the commercial agreement with Samsung) will increase future sales of digital devices or content or the earnings of the Digital business. The previously announced efforts to rationalize the costs associated with the Digital business also may not be successful, which may adversely impact the Company’s results of operations. The Digital business faces certain risks associated with its business, including protection of digital rights and uncertainties relating to the regulation of digital content. If the Retail business is unable to renew or enter into new leases on favorable terms, or at all, its sales and earnings may decline. Substantially all of the Retail business’s stores are located in leased premises. The Retail business’s profitability depends in part on its ability to continue to optimize its store lease portfolio as to the number of retail stores, store locations and lease terms and conditions. Its ability to do so depends on, among other things, general economic and business conditions and general real estate development conditions, which are beyond its control. The Retail business has 337 leases up for renewal by April 30, 2018. If the cost of leasing existing retail stores increases, the Retail business may not be able to maintain its existing store locations as leases expire. In addition, the Retail business may not be able to enter into new leases on acceptable terms, or at all, or it may not be able to locate suitable alternative sites or additional sites for new retail stores in a timely manner. The Retail business’s sales and earnings may decline if it fails to maintain existing store locations, enter into new leases, renew leases or relocate to alternative sites, in each case on attractive terms. The Company is dependent upon access to the capital markets, bank credit facilities, and short-term vendor financing for its liquidity needs. The Company must have sufficient sources of liquidity to fund its working capital requirements, indebtedness and Digital business. The Company believes that the combination of its cash-on-hand, cash flow received from operations, funds available under the Company’s revolving senior credit facility and short-term vendor financing will be sufficient to meet the Company’s normal working capital and debt service requirements for at least the next twelve months. If these sources of liquidity do not satisfy the Company’s requirements, the Company may need to seek additional financing. The future availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors, such as economic and market conditions, the availability of credit and the Company’s credit rating, as well as the Company’s reputation with potential lenders. These factors could materially adversely affect the Company’s costs of borrowing, and the Company’s financial position and results of operations would be adversely impacted. The Company faces various risks as an Internet retailer. Business risks related to its online business include risks associated with the need to keep pace with rapid technological change, risks associated with the adoption of new products or platforms, including, among other things, new website platforms and new products such as the Yuzu™ platform, 31 Table of Contents Internet security risks, risks of system failure or inadequacy, supply chain risks, government regulation and legal uncertainties with respect to the Internet, risks related to data privacy and collection of sales or other taxes by one or more states or foreign jurisdictions. If any of these risks materializes, it could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company faces the risk of a shift in consumer spending patterns to Internet retailers and digital content. The Company has entered parts of the online and digital markets in which it has limited experience and may in the future expand into additional areas. The offering of digital content may present new and difficult challenges. Gross margin for digital content and products may be lower than for the Company’s traditional product lines. The gross margin for the Company’s online sales is generally lower than for sales in its retail stores. Although the Company has entered into the online and digital spaces, it may not be able to compete effectively in those spaces and any investments made in those spaces may not be successful. The Company also faces competition from companies engaged in the business of selling books, music and movies via electronic means, including the downloading of books, music and movie content. For example, historically the Retail business offered a selection of music products in its stores, but has dramatically decreased such selection because of the increased competition from the download of digital music. The College business is experiencing growing competition from alternative media and alternative sources of textbooks and course-related materials, such as websites that sell textbooks, eBooks, digital content and other merchandise directly to students; online resources; publishers selling directly to students; print-on-demand textbooks; CD-ROMs; textbook rental companies; and student-to-student transactions over the Internet. In addition, the College business has significantly increased its textbook rental business, offering students a lower cost alternative to purchasing textbooks, which is also subject to certain inventory risks such as textbooks not being resold or re-rented due to delayed returns or poor condition, or faculty members not continuing to adopt or use certain textbooks. Sales of physical textbooks by the College business may also be adversely impacted by increased usage of digital content and eBooks, including textbooks in digital form. These challenges may negatively affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s expansion into new products, services and technologies subjects it to additional business, legal, financial and competitive risks. The Company may require additional capital in the future to sustain or grow the Company’s online business and the Digital business. The Company’s gross profits and margins in its newer activities may be lower than in its traditional activities, and it may not be successful enough in these newer activities to recoup its investments in them. In addition, the Company may have limited or no experience in its newer products and services, and its customers may not adopt its new product or service offerings, which include digital, web services and electronic devices, including but not limited to its NOOK® eBook readers and tablets, as well as new gift products and educational toys and games products. Some of these offerings may present new and difficult technological challenges, and the Company may be subject to claims or recalls if customers of these offerings experience service disruptions or failures or other quality issues. If any of these were to occur, it could damage the Company’s reputation, limit its growth and negatively affect its operating results. The Company depends on component and product manufacturing provided by third-parties, many of whom are located outside of the U.S. NOOK® and other Company products are manufactured by a third-party manufacturer outside the United States, and the Company relies on components provided from a number of different manufacturers both within and outside the United States. Many of these manufacturers are concentrated in geographic areas outside the United States. While the Company’s arrangements with these manufacturers may lower costs, they also reduce its direct control over production. It is uncertain what effect such diminished control will have on the quality or quantity of products or services, or the Company’s flexibility to 32 Table of Contents respond to changing conditions. Although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, if reimbursement from such manufacturers is unenforceable or insufficient, the Company may remain responsible to the consumer for warranty service in the event of product defects. Any unanticipated product defect or warranty liability, whether pursuant to arrangements with contract manufacturers or otherwise, could materially adversely affect the Company’s reputation, financial condition and operating results. If manufacturing in these locations is disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health or political issues, the Company’s financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. The Company, including the Digital business, may be unable to obtain a sufficient supply of components and parts that are free of minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries (DRC), which could result in a shortage of such components and parts or reputational damages if the Company is unable to certify that its products are free of such minerals. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act included disclosure requirements regarding the use of “conflict” minerals mined from the DRC and procedures regarding a manufacturer’s efforts to prevent the sourcing of such “conflict” minerals. The Securities and Exchange Commission adopted the final rules related to “conflict” minerals in August 2012. These rules may limit the pool of suppliers who can provide the Company DRC Conflict Free components and parts, and the Company cannot make assurances that it will be able to obtain products or supplies in sufficient quantities that meet the DRC Conflict Free designation as proposed by the requirements. In addition, the Company may incur material costs in complying with the disclosure requirements and procedures, including costs related to the due diligence process of determining the source of certain minerals used in the Company’s products as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, and suppliers as a result of implementing the procedures designed to prevent the sourcing of such “conflict” minerals. Also, because the Company’s supply chain is complex, the Company may face reputational challenges with its customers, stockholders and other stakeholders if it is unable to sufficiently verify the origins for the defined conflict metals used in its products as required by the rules on conflict minerals. The Company filed its Conflict Minerals Report for the calendar year 2014 with the SEC on June 1, 2015. Government regulation is evolving and unfavorable changes could harm the Company’s business. The Company is subject to general business regulations and laws relating to all aspects of its business, including regulations and laws relating to the Internet, online commerce, digital content and products as well as its other lines of business (including governmental investigations and litigation relating to the agency pricing model for digital content distribution). Existing and future laws and regulations and their application and/or enforcement may impede the growth of the Internet, digital content distribution or other online services and impact digital content pricing, including requiring modifications or elimination of related pricing models including the agency pricing model. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, competition and/or antitrust, content, copyrights, distribution, college distribution, mobile communications, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, unencumbered Internet access to the Company’s services, the design and operation of websites, the characteristics and quality of products and services and employee benefits (including the costs associated with complying with the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act). Unfavorable regulatory and legal developments, including among other things the July 2013 U.S. federal court ruling that Apple Inc. violated antitrust laws by colluding to raise the price of digital books with certain U.S. publishers and the settlement between the U.S. Department of Justice and certain U.S. publishers for allegedly colluding to raise the price of digital books, could diminish the demand for the Company’s products and services, increase its cost of doing business, decrease its margins and materially adversely impact its results of operations or financial operations. 33 Table of Contents The Company relies on third-party digital content and applications, which may not be available to the Company on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The Company contracts with certain third-parties to offer their digital content, including on NOOK® and through its eBookstore. Its licensing arrangements with these third-parties do not guarantee the continuation or renewal of these arrangements on reasonable terms, if at all. Some third-party content providers currently or in the future may offer competing products and services, and could take action to make it more difficult or impossible for the Company to license their content in the future. Other content owners, providers or distributors may seek to limit the Company’s access to, or increase the total cost of, such content. If the Company is unable to offer a wide variety of content at reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, its financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. The College business may not be able to enter into new contracts and contracts for existing or additional college and university affiliated bookstores may not be profitable. An important part of the College business’s business strategy is to expand sales for its college bookstore operations by being awarded additional contracts to manage bookstores for colleges and universities. The College business’s ability to obtain those additional contracts is subject to a number of factors that it is not able to control. In addition, the anticipated strategic benefits of new and additional college and university bookstores may not be realized at all or may not be realized within the time frames contemplated by management. In particular, contracts for additional managed stores may involve a number of special risks, including adverse short-term effects on operating results, diversion of management’s attention and other resources, standardization of accounting systems, dependence on retaining, hiring and training key personnel, unanticipated problems or legal liabilities, and actions of its competitors and customers. Because certain terms of any contract are generally fixed for the initial term of the contract and involve judgments and estimates which may not be accurate, including for reasons outside of its control, the College business has contracts which are not profitable and may have such contracts in the future. Even if the College business has the right to terminate a contract, it may be reluctant to do so even when a contract is unprofitable due to, among other factors, the potential effect on the College business’s reputation. Any unprofitable contracts may negatively impact the Company’s operating results. The College business may not be able to successfully retain or renew its managed bookstore contracts on profitable terms. The College business faces significant competition in retaining existing store contracts and when renewing those contracts as they expire. The College business’s contracts are typically for five years with renewal options but can range from two to 15 years, and most contracts are cancelable by either party without penalty, typically with 120 days’ notice. The College business may not be successful in retaining its current contracts, renewing its current contracts, or renewing its current contracts on terms that provide it the opportunity to improve or maintain the profitability of managing the store. If the College business is unable to retain or renew its contracts on profitable terms, or at all, its profit margins could be adversely impacted. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 34 Table of Contents 