ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. The following information sets forth risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements we have made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and those we may make from time to time. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operation, prospects or financial condition could be harmed. These are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also affect our business operations. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of operating losses. We expect to incur net losses and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. With the exception of 1996, we have not been profitable since our inception in 1986. We reported net losses of $112.7 million, $169.7 million and $168.3 million for the years ended 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $868.9 million. To date, our revenue from product sales has been in the form of royalty payments from Amgen on sales of cinacalcet HCl, royalty payments from Nycomed on sales of PREOTACT® and product sales to Nycomed of PREOTACT®. We have assigned the right to receive future royalties from Amgen for sales of cinacalcet HCl to a wholly owned subsidiary. The subsidiary has pledged the right to such royalties as security for the repayment of certain notes. Until such notes, with a carrying value of $173.7 million at December 31, 2006, are paid in full, all royalties from Amgen will go to repay the loan and related interest and not to us. If the Amgen royalties are not sufficient to repay the notes on a timely basis, or at all, then we may never receive additional cash flows from future royalty payments from Amgen on sales of cinacalcet HCl. We have not generated any other revenue from product sales to date, and it is possible that we will never have sufficient product sales revenue to achieve profitability. We expect to continue to incur losses for at least the next several years as we and our collaborators and licensees pursue clinical trials and research and development efforts. To become profitable, we, alone or with our collaborators and licensees, must successfully develop, manufacture and market our current product candidates and continue to identify, develop, manufacture and market new product candidates. It is possible that we will never have significant product sales revenue or receive significant royalties on our licensed product candidates. We may require additional funds. Currently, we are not a self-sustaining business and certain economic, operational and strategic factors may require us to secure additional funds. If we lack sufficient funding at any time in the future, we may not be able to develop or commercialize our products, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. Our current and anticipated operations require substantial capital. We expect that our existing cash and cash equivalents will sufficiently fund our current and planned operations through the next 12 months. However, our future capital needs will depend on many factors, including the extent to which we enter into collaboration agreements with respect to any of our proprietary product candidates, receive royalty and milestone payments from our collaborators and make progress in our development and commercialization activities. Our capital requirements will also depend on the magnitude and scope of these activities, our ability to maintain existing and establish new collaborations, the terms of those collaborations, the success of our collaborators in developing and marketing products under their respective collaborations with us, our ability to effectively out-source our clinical development, regulatory, data management, research, quality control and assurance, and other activities, the success of our contract manufacturers in producing clinical and commercial supplies of our product candidates and drug delivery devices on a timely basis and in sufficient quantities to meet our requirements, competing technological and market developments, the time and cost of obtaining regulatory approvals, the cost of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent and other rights and our success in acquiring and 22 Table of Contents integrating complimentary products, technologies or companies. We do not have committed external sources of funding, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional funds on acceptable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to: • engage in equity financings that would be dilutive to current stockholders; • delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our development programs; • obtain funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to technologies, product candidates or products that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves; or • license rights to technologies, product candidates or products on terms that are less favorable to us than might otherwise be available. If we do not receive regulatory approval to market PREOS® in the United States in a timely manner, or at all, or if we obtain regulatory approval to market PREOS® but the approved label is not competitive with then existing competitive products, our business will be materially harmed and our stock price may be adversely affected. In May 2005, we filed an NDA for PREOS® with the FDA seeking approval to market PREOS® in the U.S. On March 9, 2006, we received notification from the FDA that the PREOS® NDA is approvable. In the approvable letter, the FDA indicated that our pivotal Phase III study with PREOS® demonstrated significant fracture risk reductions in post menopausal women with osteoporosis, but noted the higher incidence of hypercalcemia with PREOS® compared to placebo. The FDA expressed concern regarding hypercalcemia associated with the proposed daily dose of PREOS® and requested additional clinical information. The FDA also requested additional information regarding the reliability and use of the injection device for delivery of PREOS®. Since receiving the approvable letter from the FDA, we have had further communications with the FDA including an in person meeting with senior staff from the FDA’s Division of Endocrine and Metabolism Drug Products. During the meeting, the FDA proposed that we generate additional clinical data through the conduct of a new clinical trial in order to adequately address the hypercalcemia issue raised in the approvable letter. Since receiving the approvable letter we have been carefully evaluating the regulatory path forward for PREOS®. We submitted a new clinical trial protocol for PREOS® to support U.S. registration. After multiple communications with the FDA, we believe the protocol design is now finalized. The clinical study under the protocol is a 12-month bone-mineral density bridging study designed to evaluate the relative efficacy and safety of PREOS® as compared to placebo in women with post-menopausal osteoporosis. We have concluded at this time that we will not initiate the study until we secure additional funding for the study from a corporate or financial partner. There is no assurance that we will secure such funding on acceptable terms or at all. There are no assurances that the FDA will ultimately concur with our new clinical trial protocol. If the FDA does not ultimately concur with our submitted protocol, the regulatory approval process for PREOS® will be further delayed. Even if the FDA concurs with our submitted protocol, there are no assurances that the results of any clinical studies based on the protocol will satisfy the concerns raised by the FDA in the approvable letter or that the FDA will ultimately determine that the applicable regulatory requirements for approval of PREOS® in the U.S. have been met. Biotechnology stock prices, including our stock price, have declined significantly in certain instances where companies have failed to meet expectations with respect to FDA approval or the timing for FDA approval. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for PREOS® in a timely manner, or at all, or if we receive regulatory approval to market PREOS® in the United States but the FDA approved indication, side effect and adverse events profile, and product distribution requirements are not competitive with existing competitor products, our business will be materially harmed and our stock price may be adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents We are entirely dependent on the efforts of Nycomed to market PREOTACT® in Europe. If Nycomed does not devote adequate resources to the marketing of PREOTACT® in Europe or if Nycomed is not successful in its efforts, sales of PREOTACT® in Europe will be reduced, our profitability will be delayed and our stock price adversely affected. We have licensed to Nycomed the exclusive right to develop and market PREOS® in Europe under the brand name PREOTACT®. The success of the commercialization of PREOTACT® in Europe depends on Nycomed’s efforts and is beyond our control. For us to receive any significant royalty payments from Nycomed, they must devote adequate resources to marketing PREOTACT in Europe and achieve market acceptance for the drug. If Nycomed does not devote adequate resources to marketing PREOTACT® in Europe then European sales of PREOTACT® will be negatively impacted, our corresponding receipt of royalties from Nycomed will be negatively impacted and our profitability will be adversely affected. Nycomed has also assumed responsibility to comply with any and all post-marketing regulatory requirements for PREOTACT® in Europe. If Nycomed fails to comply with such post-marketing regulatory requirements, it may be subject to disciplinary proceedings from applicable regulatory authorities and its marketing and sales of PREOTACT® in Europe may be negatively impacted. If we do not receive regulatory approval to market teduglutide in a timely manner, or at all, or if we obtain regulatory approval to market teduglutide but the approved label is not competitive with then existing competitive products, our business will be materially harmed and our stock price may be adversely affected. Before we apply for regulatory approval for the commercial sale of teduglutide, we must complete our Phase III clinical trial in adult patients with short bowel syndrome and the data from such trial must indicate that the drug was safe and effective in those patients. It is our intention to utilize a single pivotal Phase III clinical trial to support the filing of an NDA for teduglutide. The FDA may not accept a single trial and may require that we conduct another Phase III clinical trial in support of our application for approval. In addition, we will need to prepare and file an NDA with the FDA for teduglutide. The preparation of an NDA is a time consuming and expensive endeavor and there can be no assurances that we will be able to prepare such NDA in a timely manner or that the data from the Phase III trial will support the filing of an NDA. Additionally, the FDA may not ultimately approve teduglutide for commercial sale. Analysis and reporting on a carcinogenicity study for teduglutide is nearing completion. Tumors were observed in animals receiving the study drug and those receiving placebo. Although the final study report is not yet complete, after reviewing the data from the study, an expert panel of pathologists has concluded that there were no treatment-related malignant tumors in the animals. Nevertheless, the FDA may require a black-box warning be placed on the packaging of the product or may impose other labeling requirements that could substantially restrict revenues from such product when and if it is approved for marketing. Our failure to obtain regulatory approval to commercialize teduglutide would substantially impair our ability to generate revenues to sustain our operations and would materially harm our business and adversely affect our stock price. Biotechnology stock prices, including our stock price, have declined significantly in certain instances where companies have failed to meet expectations with respect to FDA approval or the timing for FDA approval. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for teduglutide in a timely manner, or at all, or if we receive regulatory approval to market teduglutide but the FDA approved indication, side effect and adverse events profile, and product distribution requirements are not competitive with existing competitor products, our business will be materially harmed and our stock price may be adversely affected. We may never develop any more commercial drugs or other products that generate revenues. Cinacalcet HCl and PREOTACT® are our only drugs, to date, that are generating commercial revenues. Our remaining product candidates will require significant additional development, clinical trials, regulatory approvals and additional investment before they can be commercialized. As a result of our March 14, 2007 corporate restructuring, we now outsource all of our clinical development and discovery research activities. If we are unable to transition to an outsourcing company in an efficient and timely manner, the development of our product candidates will be delayed. Additionally, our product development efforts may not lead to commercial drugs for a number of reasons, including the failure of our product candidates to be safe and effective in clinical trials or 24 Table of Contents because we have inadequate financial or other resources to pursue the programs through the clinical trial process. Even if we are able to commercialize one or more of our product candidates, we cannot assure you that such product candidates will find acceptance in the medical community. We have limited capacity to conduct pre-clinical testing and clinical trials, and our dependence on contract research organizations could result in delays in and additional costs for our drug development efforts. We have limited internal resources and capacity to perform pre-clinical testing and clinical trials. As a result, we have engaged and intend to continue engaging contract research organizations, or CROs, to perform pre-clinical testing and clinical trials for drug candidates that we choose to develop without a collaborator. If the CROs that we hire to perform our pre-clinical testing and clinical trials or our collaborators or licensees do not meet deadlines, do not follow proper procedures, or a conflict arises between us and our CROs, our pre-clinical testing and clinical trials may take longer than expected, may be delayed or may be terminated. If we were forced to find a replacement entity to perform any of our pre-clinical testing or clinical trials, we may not be able to find a suitable entity on favorable terms, or at all. Even if we were able to find another company to perform a pre-clinical test or clinical trial, the delay in the test or clinical trial may result in significant expenditures. Events such as these may result in delays in our obtaining regulatory approval for our drug candidates or our ability to commercialize our products and could result in increased expenditures that would adversely affect our operating results. In addition, for some of our drug candidates, we plan to contract with collaborators or licensees to advance those candidates through later-stage, more expensive clinical trials, rather than invest our own resources to perform these clinical trials. Depending on the terms of our agreements with these collaborators or licensees, we may not have any control over the conduct of these clinical trials, and in any event we would be subject to the risks associated with depending on collaborators or licensees to develop these drug candidates. We have no internal manufacturing capabilities. We depend on third parties, including a number of sole suppliers, for manufacturing, supply, and storage of our product candidates and drug delivery devices to be used for our commercial launch of products, our partner’s commercial launch of products, and in our clinical trials. We have experienced instances where our contract manufacturers have produced product and drug delivery devices which have not complied with our specifications and could not be used for commercial use or clinical trials. Product introductions and clinical trials may be delayed or suspended if the manufacture or supply of our products or drug delivery devices are delayed, interrupted or discontinued. We do not have internal manufacturing capabilities to produce supplies of PREOS®, teduglutide or any of our other product candidates to support clinical trials or commercial launch of these products, if they are approved. We also do not have internal manufacturing capabilities to produce supplies of the injection pen devices used to administer PREOS® and teduglutide. We are dependent on third parties for manufacturing, supply, and storage of our product candidates and injection devices. If we are unable to contract for a sufficient supply of our product candidates or injection devices on acceptable terms, or if we encounter delays or difficulties in the manufacturing or supply process or our relationships with our manufacturers, we may not have sufficient product or injection devices to conduct or complete our clinical trials, support preparations for the commercial launch of our product candidates, if approved, or support our partners in the commercialization of partnered products, including Nycomed’s commercialization of PREOTACT® in the EU. We depend on a number of contract manufacturers to supply key components of PREOS®. For instance, we have entered into agreements with SynCo Bio Partners B.V., or SynCo, and Boehringer Ingelheim Austria GmbH, or BI, to produce bulk supplies of the active pharmaceutical ingredient of PREOS®. Historically, SynCo has supplied the bulk drug product for our clinical requirements. Bulk drug product manufactured by SynCo is being used in Nycomed’s commercial launch of PREOTACT® in the EU. Our agreement with SynCo has expired and BI is now our sole supplier of the bulk drug product for PREOS ®. BI will supply the bulk drug product for our commercial requirements of PREOS® and for PREOTACT® when and if BI becomes an approved supplier in 25 Table of Contents the EU. The technology utilized by SynCo to produce the active pharmaceutical ingredient of PREOS® has been transferred to BI. In connection with the technology transfer, we are required to establish for regulatory purposes comparability between the finished drug product supplied by SynCo in the conduct of our clinical trials and the commercial supplies of the finished drug product supplied by BI. We believe that we established the required comparability in our NDA filing. BI has successfully completed initial manufacturing runs of the commercial bulk drug product and we expect BI to be able to produce sufficient bulk supplies of PREOS® on a timely basis. Nevertheless, manufacturing biological products is complex and no assurances can be provided that BI will be able to produce commercial quantities of bulk drug product in a timely manner or at all. We also depend on Vetter Pharma-Fertigung GmbH, or Vetter, for the production of finished supplies of PREOS®. Because the “fill and finish” aspect of the manufacturing process for PREOS® requires the use of Vetter’s proprietary technology, Vetter is our sole source for finished supplies of PREOS®. Absent the development of an alternative method of delivery of PREOS®, we will remain dependent on the availability of Vetter’s proprietary technology. Vetter has only produced small quantities of finished supplies of PREOS® to date and has commenced manufacturing commercial quantities of finished supplies of PREOS®. Recent productions runs at Vetter have resulted in batches of finished supplies of PREOS® that do not meet our specifications. We are currently working with Vetter to identify the cause of the recent failed production runs. The fill and finish aspect of the manufacturing process for PREOS® is complex and no assurances can be provided that Vetter will be able to produce commercial quantities of finished supplies of PREOS® in a timely manner or at all, in order to meet Nycomed’s requirements for its commercialization of PREOTRACT® or for the conduct of our clinical trials with PREOS®. We rely on Ypsomed AG, or Ypsomed, to manufacture the injection pen device used for the administration of PREOS®. Ypsomed is our sole source for the pen and, absent the development of an alternative method of delivery of PREOS®, we will remain dependent on Ypsomed’s technology to produce the pen. The pen has been specifically designed and developed for delivery of PREOS®. This will be the first time that Ypsomed will have produced commercial quantities of the pen. To date, Ypsomed has not produced commercial quantities of the pen. We are working with Ypsomed to produce sufficient supplies of the pen on a timely basis to support Nycomed’s commercialization of PREOTACT® in the EU, and our commercial needs for PREOS® in the U.S., when and if approved. Manufacturing drug delivery devices such as the pen is complex and no assurances can be provided that Ypsomed will be able to produce commercial quantities of the pen in a timely manner or at all. We are subject to various risks when relying on our contract manufacturers for the supply of PREOS® and the pen. If, for example, Vetter is unable to produce finished supplies of PREOS® in required quantities or in accordance with our required specifications, in a timely manner or at all, or if Ypsomed is unable to produce the pen in required quantities and in accordance with our required specifications, in a timely manner or at all, Nycomed’s commercialization of PREOTACT® in the EU and our commercial launch of PREOS® in the U.S., if and when approved, would be delayed and we could be forced to ultimately develop an alternative delivery process for PREOS®, which would require additional clinical trials and regulatory approvals. We have experienced certain instances where our contract manufacturers have produced product and pens that have not met our required specifications and could not be used in clinical trials or for commercial launch. Any extended disruption or termination of our relationship with any of our contract manufacturers for PREOS® or the pen would materially harm our business and financial condition and could adversely impact our stock price. Additionally, under our agreement with Nycomed, we are responsible to supply Nycomed with its requirements of PREOTACT® and the pen to support the commercialization of PREOTACT® in the EU and any further clinical studies required for PREOTACT® in EU. To the extent that the manufacture and supply of PREOS® or the pen is interrupted or delayed, we may be unable to support Nycomed’s commercial or clinical requirements for PREOTACT® or the pen. Such a delay may cause European sales of PREOTACT® to be negatively impacted and adversely affect our relationship with Nycomed, our profitability and stock price. We also have arrangements with contract manufacturers for clinical supplies of teduglutide. If clinical supplies of teduglutide are disrupted, exhausted, or fail to arrive when needed, we will have to substantially curtail or postpone initiation of planned clinical trials with teduglutide. 26 Table of Contents Dependence on contract manufacturers for commercial production involves a number of additional risks, many of which are outside our control. These additional risks include: • there may be delays in scale-up to quantities needed for clinical trials and commercial launch or failure to manufacture such quantities to our specifications, or to deliver such quantities on the dates we require; • our current and future manufacturers are subject to ongoing, periodic, unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and international regulatory authorities for compliance with strictly enforced cGMP regulations and similar foreign standards, and we do not have control over our contract manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards; • our current and future manufacturers may not be able to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, which would prohibit them from manufacturing products or drug delivery devices for us; • if we need to change to other commercial manufacturing contractors, the FDA and comparable foreign regulators must approve these contractors prior to our use, which would require new testing and compliance inspections, and the new manufacturers would have to be educated in, or themselves develop substantially equivalent processes necessary for, the production of our products and drug delivery devices; • our manufacturers might not be able to fulfill our commercial needs, which would require us to seek new manufacturing arrangements and may result in substantial delays in meeting market demand; and • we may not have intellectual property rights, or may have to share intellectual property rights, to any improvements in the manufacturing processes or new manufacturing processes for our products or drug delivery devices. Any of these factors could cause us to delay or suspend clinical trials, regulatory submission, required approvals or commercialization of our products under development, entail higher costs and result in our being unable to effectively commercialize our products. We do not currently intend to manufacture any of our product candidates, although we may choose to do so in the future. If we decide to manufacture our products, we would be subject to the regulatory risks and requirements described above. We would also be subject to similar risks regarding delays or difficulties encountered in manufacturing our pharmaceutical products and we would require additional facilities and substantial additional capital. We cannot assure you that we would be able to manufacture any of our products successfully in accordance with regulatory requirements and in a cost-effective manner. Clinical trials are long, expensive and uncertain processes and the FDA may ultimately not approve any of our product candidates. We cannot assure you that data collected from preclinical and clinical trials of our product candidates will be sufficient to support approval by the FDA, the failure of which could delay our profitability and adversely affect our stock price. Before we receive regulatory approval for the commercial sale of our product candidates, our product candidates are subject to extensive pre-clinical testing and clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy. Clinical trials are long, expensive and uncertain processes. Clinical trials may not be commenced or completed on schedule, and the FDA may not ultimately approve our product candidates for commercial sale. Further, even if the results of our preclinical studies or clinical trials are initially positive, it is possible that we will obtain different results in the later stages of drug development or that results seen in clinical trials will not continue with longer-term treatment. Drugs in late stages of clinical development may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. For example, positive results in early Phase I or Phase II clinical trials may not be repeated in larger Phase II or Phase III clinical trials. All of our potential drug candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. The clinical trials of any of our drug candidates, including teduglutide, could be unsuccessful, which would prevent us from commercializing the drug. Our failure to develop safe, commercially viable drugs would substantially impair our ability to generate revenues and sustain our operations and would materially harm our business and adversely affect our stock price. 27 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain our existing or establish new collaborative relationships, or if our collaborators do not devote adequate resources to the development and commercialization of our licensed drug candidates, we may have to reduce our rate of product development and may not see products brought to market or be able to achieve profitability. Our strategy for developing, manufacturing and commercializing our products includes entering into various relationships with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to advance many of our programs. We have granted exclusive development, commercialization and marketing rights to a number of our collaborators for some of our key product development programs, including cinacalcet HCl, PREOTACT®, calcilytics, mGluRs and glycine reuptake inhibitors. Except in the case of our collaboration with AstraZeneca for research involving mGluRs, our collaborators have full control over those efforts in their territories and the resources they commit to the programs. Accordingly, the success of the development and commercialization of product candidates in those programs depends on their efforts and is beyond our control. For us to receive any significant milestone or royalty payments from our collaborators, they must advance drugs through clinical trials, establish the safety and efficacy of our drug candidates, obtain regulatory approvals and achieve market acceptance of those products. As a result, if a collaborator elects to terminate its agreement with us with respect to a research program, our ability to advance the program may be significantly impaired or we may elect to discontinue funding the program altogether. Under our agreement with AstraZeneca, we are required to co-direct the research and to pay for an equal share of the preclinical research costs, including capital and a minimum number of personnel through March 2009. As a result of the March 14, 2007 restructuring, we will outsource this obligation to a contract research organization. This commitment of capital may limit or restrict our ability to initiate or pursue other research efforts. As part of our product development and commercialization strategy, we evaluate whether to seek collaborators for our product candidates. If we elect to collaborate, we may not be able to negotiate collaborative arrangements for our product candidates on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to establish collaborative arrangements, we will either need to increase our expenditures and undertake the development and commercialization activities at our own expense or delay further development of the affected product candidate. Collaborative agreements, including our existing collaborative agreements, pose the following risks: • our contracts with collaborators may be terminated and we may not be able to replace our collaborators; • the terms of our contracts with our collaborators may not be favorable to us in the future; • our collaborators may not pursue further development and commercialization of compounds resulting from their collaborations with us; • a collaborator with marketing and distribution rights to one or more of our product candidates may not commit enough resources to the marketing and distribution of such candidates; • disputes with our collaborators may arise, leading to delays in or termination of the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates, or resulting in significant litigation or arbitration; • contracts with our collaborators may fail to provide significant protection if one or more of them fail to perform; • in some circumstances, if a collaborator terminates an agreement, or if we are found to be in breach of our obligations, we may be unable to secure all of the necessary intellectual property rights and regulatory approval to continue developing the same compound or product; • our collaborators could independently develop, or develop with third parties, drugs that compete with our products; and • we may be unable to meet our financial or other obligations under our collaborative agreements. 28 Table of Contents We cannot assure you of the success of our current collaborative efforts nor can we assure you of the success of any of our future collaborative efforts. If our collaborative efforts fail, our business and financial condition would be materially harmed. Because we have never marketed, sold or distributed a product, we may be unable to successfully market and sell our products and generate revenues. Due to the delay in obtaining regulatory approval of PREOS® we have eliminated all commercial sales and related field operations. This included the termination of our promotion agreement with Allergan to promote Restasis® and our agreement with our contract sales organization Ventiv Pharma Services. As a result, if and when we receive regulatory approval to market and sell one or more of our product candidates we will have to enter into agreements with contract sales organizations to provide sales, marketing, market research and product planning services. Our inability to enter into such agreements may limit our ability to gain market acceptance for our products and generate revenues. We cannot assure you that when and if we enter into such agreements, we will be successful in managing such service providers and in generating sales revenue with any of our product candidates. Further, if we establish relationships with one or more companies with existing distribution systems and direct sales forces to market any or all of our product candidates, we cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into or maintain agreements with these companies on acceptable terms, if at all. Because of the uncertainty of pharmaceutical pricing, reimbursement and healthcare reform measures, we may be unable to sell our products profitably. The availability of reimbursement by governmental and other third-party payors affects the market for any pharmaceutical product. These third-party payors continually attempt to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare. There have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system and further proposals are likely. Medicare’s policies may decrease the market for our products that are designed to treat patients with age-related disorders, such as osteoporosis and hyperparathyroidism. Significant uncertainty exists with respect to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. In addition, third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services. We might not be able to sell our products profitably or recoup the value of our investment in product development if reimbursement is unavailable or limited in scope, particularly for product candidates addressing small patient populations, such as teduglutide for the treatment of short bowel syndrome. The passage of the Medicare Prescription Drug and Modernization Act of 2003, or the MMA, imposes new requirements for the distribution and pricing of prescription drugs for Medicare beneficiaries which may affect the marketing of our products. The MMA also introduced a new reimbursement methodology, part of which went into effect in 2004. At this point, it is not clear what effect the MMA will have on prices paid for currently approved drugs and the pricing options for new drugs approved after January 1, 2006. Moreover, while the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own payment rates. Any reduction in payment that results from the MMA may result in a similar reduction in payments from non-governmental payors. In addition, in some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. We expect that there will continue to be a number of federal and state proposals to implement governmental pricing controls. While we cannot predict whether such legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the adoption of such proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profitability. As a result of intense competition and technological change in the pharmaceutical industry, the marketplace may not accept our products, and we may not be able to compete successfully against other companies in our industry and achieve profitability. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are intensely competitive. We have competitors both in the U.S. and internationally including major multi-national pharmaceutical companies, chemical companies, 29 Table of Contents biotech companies, universities and other research organizations. Many of our competitors have drug products that have already been approved or are in development, and operate large, well-funded research and development programs in these fields. For example, Forteo®, a fragment of the full-length parathyroid hormone for the treatment of osteoporosis, is currently being marketed in the United States and Europe by Eli Lilly as a treatment for patients with osteoporosis who are at high risk of bone fracture. If PREOS® is approved by the FDA, it will compete directly with Forteo® and other approved therapies, including supplementing dietary calcium and vitamin D, estrogen replacement therapies, calcitonin, bisphosphonate and selective estrogen modulators therapies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and management resources, superior intellectual property positions and greater manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities, areas in which we have limited or no experience. In addition, many of our competitors have significantly greater experience than we do in undertaking preclinical testing and clinical trials of new or improved pharmaceutical products and obtaining required regulatory approvals. Consequently, our competitors may obtain FDA and other regulatory approvals for product candidates sooner and may be more successful in manufacturing and marketing their products than we or our collaborators, which could render our product candidates obsolete and non-competitive. Existing and future products, therapies and technological approaches will compete directly with the products we seek to develop. Current and prospective competing products may provide greater therapeutic benefits for a specific problem, may offer easier delivery or may offer comparable performance at a lower cost. Any product candidate that we develop and that obtains regulatory approval must then compete for market acceptance and market share. Our product candidates may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community. Further, any products we develop may become obsolete before we recover any expenses we incurred in connection with the development of these products. As a result, we may never achieve profitability. We may be unable to obtain patents to protect our technologies from other companies with competitive products, and patents of other companies could prevent us from manufacturing, developing or marketing our products. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has not established a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims that it will allow in biotechnology patents. If it allows broad claims, the number and cost of patent interference proceedings in the U.S. and the risk of infringement litigation may increase. If it allows narrow claims, the risk of infringement may decrease, but the value of our rights under our patents, licenses and patent applications may also decrease. In addition, the scope of the claims in a patent application can be significantly modified during prosecution before the patent is issued. Consequently, we cannot know whether our pending applications will result in the issuance of patents or, if any patents are issued, whether they will provide us with significant proprietary protection or will be circumvented, invalidated, or found to be unenforceable. Until recently, patent applications in the United States were maintained in secrecy until the patents issued, and publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries. Patent applications filed in the United States after November 2000 generally will be published 18 months after the filing date unless the applicant certifies that the invention will not be the subject of a foreign patent application. We cannot assure you that, even if published, we will be aware of all such literature. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that the named inventors of our products and processes were the first to invent that product or process or that we were the first to pursue patent coverage for our inventions. Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to maintain and enforce our proprietary rights. If third parties engage in activities that infringe our proprietary rights, our management’s focus will be diverted and we may incur significant costs in asserting our rights. We may not be successful in asserting our proprietary rights, which could result in our patents being held invalid or a court holding that the third party is not infringing, either of which would harm our competitive position. In addition, we cannot assure you that others will not design around our patented technology. 30 Table of Contents Moreover, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office or other analogous proceedings in other parts of the world to determine priority of invention and the validity of patent rights granted or applied for, which could result in substantial cost and delay, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us. We cannot assure you that our pending patent applications, if issued, would be held valid or enforceable. Additionally, many of our foreign patent applications have been published as part of the patent prosecution process in such countries. Protection of the rights revealed in published patent applications can be complex, costly and uncertain. In order to protect goodwill associated with our company and product names, we rely on trademark protection for our marks. We registered the “PREOS” trademark with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. A third party may assert a claim that the PREOS® mark is confusingly similar to its mark, and such claims or the failure to timely register the PREOS mark or objections by the FDA could force us to select a new name for PREOS®, which could cause us to incur additional expense or delay its introduction to market. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and confidentiality provisions in our agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants to protect our intellectual property. However, these and other parties may not comply with the terms of their agreements with us, and we might be unable to adequately enforce our rights against these people or obtain adequate compensation for the damages caused by their unauthorized disclosure or use. Our trade secrets or those of our collaborators may become known or may be independently discovered by others. Our products and product candidates may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which could increase our costs and negatively affect our profitability. Our success also depends on avoiding infringement of the proprietary technologies of others. In particular, there may be certain issued patents and patent applications claiming subject matter which we or our collaborators may be required to license in order to research, develop or commercialize at least some of our product candidates, including PREOS® and teduglutide. In addition, third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us based on our patents or other intellectual property rights. An adverse outcome in these proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease or modify our use of the technology. If we are required to license such technology, we cannot assure you that a license under such patents and patent applications will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Further, we may incur substantial costs defending ourselves in lawsuits against charges of patent infringement or other unlawful use of another’s proprietary technology. We are subject to extensive government regulations that may cause us to cancel or delay the introduction of our products to market. Our research and development activities and the clinical investigation, manufacture, distribution and marketing of drug products are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. Prior to marketing in the United States, a drug must undergo rigorous testing and an extensive regulatory approval process implemented by the FDA under federal law, including the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. To receive approval, we or our collaborators must, among other things, demonstrate with substantial evidence from well-controlled clinical trials that the product is both safe and effective for each indication where approval is sought. Depending upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product and the nature of the disease or disorder to be treated, that approval process can take several years and require substantial expenditures. Data obtained from testing are susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals of our products. Drug testing is subject to complex FDA rules and regulations, including the requirement to conduct human testing on a large number of test subjects. We, our collaborators or the FDA may suspend human trials at any time if a party believes that the test subjects are exposed to unacceptable health risks. We cannot assure you that any of our product candidates will be safe for human use. Other countries also have extensive requirements regarding clinical trials, market authorization and pricing. These regulatory requirements vary widely from country to country, but, in general, are subject to all of the risks associated with United States approvals. 31 Table of Contents If any of our products receive regulatory approval, the approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is safe and effective, as demonstrated through clinical trials. In addition, results of pre-clinical studies and clinical trials with respect to our products could subject us to adverse product labeling requirements which could harm the sale of such products. Even if regulatory approval is obtained, later discovery of previously unknown problems may result in restrictions of the product, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Further, governmental approval may subject us to ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies. Even if we obtain governmental approval, a marketed product, its respective manufacturer and its manufacturing facilities are subject to unannounced inspections by the FDA and must comply with the FDA’s cGMP and other regulations. These regulations govern all areas of production, record keeping, personnel and quality control. If a manufacturer fails to comply with any of the manufacturing regulations, it may be subject to, among other things, product seizures, recalls, fines, injunctions, suspensions or revocations of marketing licenses, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Other countries also impose similar manufacturing requirements. Our promotional materials and sales activities are governed by FDA regulation. The FDA may require us to withdraw promotional material, to issue corrected material, or to cease promotion resulting in loss of credibility with our customers, reduced sales revenue or increased costs. As a result of our 2007 and 2006 restructuring initiatives and the related reductions in our workforce, we have reallocated certain employment responsibilities and will be required to outsource certain corporate functions, which will render us more dependent on third-parties to perform these corporate functions. On March 14, 2007 we announced a restructuring initiative which included reductions in our world-wide workforce as well as our intention to transition the company to an outsourcing business strategy. The reductions will result in the reallocation of certain employment responsibilities, which could adversely impact operational efficiencies, employee performance and retention. Also, as a result of these reductions, we will be required to outsource certain corporate functions which will make us more dependent on third-parties for the performance of these functions in connection with our business and product candidates. To the extent that we are unable to effectively reallocate employee responsibilities, retain key employees, establish and maintain agreements with competent third-party contractors on terms that are acceptable to us, or effectively manage the work performed by any retained third-party contractors, our ability to advance our business or product candidates may be significantly impaired and our stock price may be adversely affected. If we fail to attract and retain key employees, the development and commercialization of our products may be adversely affected. We depend heavily on the principal members of our clinical development and management staff. To the extent that we lose key personnel, our ability to develop products and become profitable may suffer. The risk of being unable to retain key personnel may be increased by the fact that we have not executed long-term employment contracts with our employees. Our future success will also depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel. We face competition for personnel from other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. After the 2007 restructuring, we will base our operations in Parsippany, New Jersey. Our future success will depend in part on how well we are able to transition activities in our Toronto and Salt Lake City locations to our Parsippany location. We are dependent upon key members of our management team who are employed at will and will be difficult to replace should they leave the company. If we are unable to retain members of our management team or if we are unable to attract and retain other highly qualified executives and employees in our industry, we may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy. We are highly dependent on key members of our management team, including Dr. Anthony Coles, our Chief Executive Officer and President, to manage our business. In addition to Dr. Coles, we have hired other key members of our management team over the past two years, each of whom is highly qualified, important to our business and would be difficult to replace. 32 Table of Contents In connection with our March 2007 restructuring and the related closure of our Toronto and Salt Lake City operations and our plan to transition the company to an outsourcing business strategy, certain members of our management team will be leaving the company by the end of 2007. We may also lose other certain key employees and members of our management team. If we are unable to retain those key employees and members of our management team in connection with or after our 2007 restructuring initiative, our ability to transition the company to the outsourcing business model may be delayed and hindered and our business may suffer. Each member of our management team is an employee at will and, despite our retention efforts, we can not assure you that they will remain with the company. Our successful transition to the outsourcing business model and our overall ability to compete in the highly competitive biotechnology and pharmaceuticals industry will also depend on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled executives and employees. The skill sets needed to operate an outsourcing business model are different from those that our current personnel now possess. As a result, we will need to retain new employees with the requisite skills and experience. If we are unable to do so, we may not be able to implement our business strategy and our business will suffer. We are involved in purported securities class action litigation and shareholder derivative litigation that could become expensive and divert management’s attention from operating our business. NPS and certain of its officers have been named as defendants in a consolidated securities class action lawsuit. In addition, certain NPS’ officers, directors and former officers and directors have been named as defendants in a shareholder derivative lawsuit. NPS believes that the claims in these lawsuits are without merit and intends to vigorously defend itself and the other defendants against the claims. We maintain insurance for claims of this nature, which we believe is adequate. Moreover, we believe, based on information currently available, that the filing and ultimate outcome of the lawsuits will not have a material impact on our financial position. However, NPS’s extended involvement in these actions may become expensive and divert management’s attention and resources from operating our business. Additionally, we may not be successful in having these lawsuits dismissed or settled within the limits of our insurance or at all. If product liability claims are brought against us or we are unable to obtain or maintain product liability insurance, we may incur substantial liabilities that could reduce our financial resources. The clinical testing and commercial use of pharmaceutical products involves significant exposure to product liability claims. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trial on humans, however, our insurance coverage may be insufficient to protect us against all product liability damages. Further, liability insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and we might not be able to obtain or maintain product liability insurance in the future on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts to protect us against product liability damages. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in decreased demand for a future product, injury to reputation, withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers, loss of revenue, costs of litigation, distraction of management and substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs. Additionally, if we are required to pay a product liability claim, we may not have sufficient financial resources to complete development or commercialization of any of our product candidates and our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our operations involve hazardous materials and we must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. Our research and development activities have involved the controlled use of hazardous materials, radioactive compounds and other potentially dangerous chemicals and biological agents. Although we believe our safety procedures for these materials comply with governmental standards, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. We currently have insurance, in amounts and on terms typical for companies in businesses that are similarly situated, that could cover all or a portion of a damage 33 Table of Contents claim arising from our use of hazardous and other materials. However, if an accident or environmental discharge occurs, and we are held liable for any resulting damages, the associated liability could exceed our insurance coverage and our financial resources. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, new SEC regulations and Nasdaq Global Market rules are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and management time related to compliance activities. We expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed and we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Common Stock and Notes Payable Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. You should consider an investment in our common stock as risky and invest only if you can withstand a significant loss and wide fluctuations in the market value of your investment. We receive only limited attention by securities analysts and frequently experience an imbalance between supply and demand for our common stock. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile. Factors affecting our common stock price include: • fluctuations in our operating results; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us, our collaborators or our competitors; • published reports by securities analysts; • the progress of our and our collaborators’ clinical trials, including our and our collaborators’ ability to produce clinical supplies of our product candidates on a timely basis and in sufficient quantities to meet our clinical trial requirements; • governmental regulation and changes in medical and pharmaceutical product reimbursement policies; • developments in patent or other intellectual property rights; • publicity concerning the discovery and development activities by our licensees; • public concern as to the safety and efficacy of drugs that we and our competitors develop; • our ability to meet market expectations with respect to FDA approval or the timing for FDA approval for our product candidates; and. • general market conditions. 34 Table of Contents Antitakeover provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, stockholder rights plan and under Delaware law may discourage or prevent a change of control. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws and Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law could delay or prevent a change of control of us. For example, our Board of Directors, without further stockholder approval, may issue preferred stock that could delay or prevent a change of control as well as reduce the voting power of the holders of common stock, even to the extent of losing control to others. In addition, our Board of Directors has adopted a stockholder rights plan, commonly known as a “poison pill,” that may delay or prevent a change of control. Substantial future sales of our common stock by us or by our existing stockholders could cause our stock price to fall. Additional equity financings or other share issuances by us could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Sales by existing stockholders of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market and the sale of shares issued in connection with strategic alliances, or the perception that such additional sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to drop. Our cash flow may not be sufficient to cover interest payments on the 3% Convertible Notes due 2008 or to repay the notes at maturity. Our ability to make interest payments on and to repay at maturity or refinance our 3% Convertible Notes due 2008 will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash. We have never generated positive annual cash flow from our operating activities, and we may not generate or sustain positive cash flows from operations in the future. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow will depend on our ability, or the ability of our strategic partners, to successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval for new products and to successfully market these products, as well as the results of our research and development efforts and other factors, including general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory conditions, many of which are outside of our control. Conversion of the notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their notes. The conversion of some or all of the notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants. Royalty and milestone revenues received from Amgen on sales of cinacalcet HCl may not be sufficient to cover the interest and principal payments on the Secured 8.0% Notes due March 30, 2017. As a result, we would have to either make such payments out of available cash resources or risk forfeiture of certain royalty rights under the Amgen agreement. In December 2004, we completed a private placement of $175.0 million in secured 8.0% Notes due March 30, 2017, or Secured Notes. The Secured Notes are non-recourse to us and are secured by certain royalty and related rights of the company under our agreement with Amgen. Additionally, the principal sources for interest payments and principal repayment of the Secured Notes is limited to royalty and milestone payments received from Amgen. If the revenues received from Amgen are insufficient to cover the interest and other payments due under the secured Notes we would have to either make the payments out of available cash resources or forfeit our rights to royalties and other rights under the Amgen agreement. If we elect to make the payments our cash resources would be significantly reduced and we may not have sufficient cash resources to fund our programs and operations. If we do not make the payments due under the Secured Notes then we risk losing the future revenue stream from Amgen for sales of cinacalcet HCl which could adversely effect future cash resources and we would lose rights to the technology licensed to Amgen under the Amgen agreement. 35 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 