ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS OCCUR, OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OR FUTURE GROWTH COULD SUFFER. YOU SHOULD ALSO REFER TO THE OTHER INFORMATION IN THIS REPORT, INCLUDING OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE RELATED NOTES. FOR THE DEFINITION OF SOME OF THE TERMS USED IN THIS SECTION AND THROUGHOUT THIS REPORT, YOU SHOULD REFER TO THE "GLOSSARY OF SELECTED TERMS." 11 WE FACE DELAYS IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF OUR TECHNOLOGY, WE NEED TO DEVELOP AND/OR ACQUIRE NEW TECHNOLOGIES, AND ANY TECHNOLOGY WE USE MAY NOT WORK AS WELL AS EXPECTED, IF AT ALL, OR EVER BE ECONOMICALLY VIABLE. The steam classification and processing technology that we intend to use has not yet been widely applied within the municipal solid waste industry and may not work as well as expected or be economically viable. The successful application of the technology at large scale and high volumes to create commercially usable cellulose fiber, electricity, ethanol or other products has yet to be proven. Any inability under our current plan to operate our Anaheim plant in a manner that will produce large volumes of commercially usable cellulose fiber may require additional investment in capital equipment and/or increased operating expenses beyond currently contemplated business and construction plans. Potential issues may include, but are not limited to, handling large quantities of textiles and other debris, unforeseen labor and energy costs, higher than expected contamination levels of the water discharge to the sewer, and capturing sufficient cellulose in the process. Unforeseen difficulties in the development or market acceptance of this cellulose fiber may lead to significant delays in production and the subsequent generation of revenue. For example, laboratory testing of the cellulose biomass created during trials since December 2005 indicated that higher than anticipated levels of BOD will result from our fiber cleaning and screening process. Although we believe technology to address and remove these BOD levels is readily available to us and that equipment incorporating such technology can be installed at this facility, we have determined, based on the size of our facility, the regulatory environment in which the facility is located, and the level of tipping fees we generate, not to expend any additional funds to address this BOD problem. We have instead redirected our focus to research and development activities during the remainder of 2007 and will continue to analyze changes to the Anaheim plant that could enable us to operate profitably at such facility. We also need to seek to develop or identify and acquire other technologies to enable us to continue to pursue our strategy. In any event we will need to raise additional financing which, if not available, could force us to curtail or cease operations altogether. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO OBTAIN THE LARGE AMOUNT OF ADDITIONAL CAPITAL THAT WE NEED TO EXECUTE OUR BUSINESS PLAN. Our business plan includes the construction and operation of additional plants and the development and/or acquisition of new technologies. Each plant is expected to cost between $50 million and $70 million. We anticipate that we will fund the construction and startup operation of these plants through the sale of securities or the issuance of debt. We may be unable to raise the additional funds necessary to build and operate these additional plants. You should not rely on the prospect of future financings in evaluating us. Any additional funding that we obtain may reduce the percentage ownership of the company held by our existing stockholders. The amount of this dilution may be substantially increased as the trading price of our common stock declines. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO ACHIEVE COMMERCIAL PRODUCTION LEVELS AT OUR INITIAL FACILITY ON A TIMELY BASIS OR AT ALL. We recently completed construction of our initial facility in Anaheim, California. Prior to completion, laboratory testing of the cellulose biomass created during certain trial runs of our process indicated that the level of biological oxygen demand ("BOD") that will result from our process would be higher than the levels previously anticipated. We believe that the sewer surcharges by the local sanitation district as a result of such discharges would negatively affect our profitability. We believe that the technology capable of significantly reducing these BOD discharges to acceptable levels is readily available to us and that equipment incorporating such technology is available for purchase and installation at our facility. However, we have determined that the costs to remedy the BOD problem is greater than we are willing to spend at this time on the Anaheim facility. We have taken an impairment charge for the "wetlap" processing equipment in 2006. We plan to spend the remainder of 2007 focusing on research and development. We plan to make appropriate changes to the "steam classification" equipment during 2008 depending on the results of the research and development. 12 WE ANTICIPATE THAT A SUBSTANTIAL PORTION OF OUR REVENUES WILL BE GENERATED FROM OUR AGREEMENT WITH TAORMINA INDUSTRIES; WE ARE NOT CURRENTLY IN COMPLIANCE WITH ALL OF OUR OBLIGATIONS UNDER THIS AGREEMENT. In June 2003, we signed a 10-year contract with Taormina Industries, a division of Republic Services, Inc. The agreement provides for Taormina to deliver up to 500 tons of MSW per day to us for processing at our Anaheim facility on the campus of Taormina in Anaheim, California. The second phase calls for us to build an additional plant in the Orange County area at which Taormina will deliver up to an additional 2,000 tons of MSW per day. The agreement grants Taormina a right of first refusal to participate in potential additional projects in an additional 10 counties throughout California where Taormina has operations. Under the terms of the agreement, Taormina is required to pay us a per ton tipping fee. We anticipate that a substantial portion of our revenues will be generated from this agreement for the foreseeable future. The Taormina agreement, as amended, provides that Taormina's obligations are subject to our ability to maintain compliance with all necessary permits and that Taormina may suspend delivery of MSW to us at any time if it determines that our operations would threaten to place Taormina's operations in non-compliance with its own permits or other governmental approvals. In addition, in the agreement we represented to Taormina that the residual waste we deliver to them would not exceed 40%, by weight, of the associated MSW delivered to us by Taormina. Primarily because we are currently operating the plant solely in a research and development mode, we are not currently in compliance with this representation. Until we are able to remedy this situation, Taormina could attempt to re-negotiate or terminate the agreement or refuse to deliver any waste from us. If Taormina were to stop delivering MSW to us for any reason or if we are unable to extend this agreement on terms favorable to us or at all prior to its expiration, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially harmed. IF WE FAIL TO IMPLEMENT NEW TECHNOLOGIES, WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO KEEP UP WITH OUR INDUSTRY, WHICH COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE AFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. We expect to utilize patented and proprietary steam classification technology in our processing facilities and to adopt other technologies from time to time. Our ability to achieve profitability and future growth is dependant on our ability to improve our knowledge and implementation of waste processing and energy development technologies. Inability to successfully implement commercially viable waste processing technologies will have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operation. OUR LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY MAKES IT DIFFICULT TO PREDICT FUTURE RESULTS. We are in the development stage and are subject to all the business risks associated with a new enterprise, including uncertainties regarding product development, constraints on our financial and personnel resources, and dependence on and need for third party relationships. For the period from June 18, 2002 (inception) to December 31, 2006, we incurred total net losses of approximately $32.0 million. To date, we have not generated substantial revenues and do not know when or whether we will be able to develop meaningful sources of revenue or whether our operations will become profitable, even if we are able to begin generating sufficient revenue. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue, we would need to develop a new business plan or curtail or cease operations completely. The auditors' report with respect to our financial statements for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005 includes an explanatory paragraph wherein they expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include any adjustment that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties. 13 THE MARKET FOR SERVICES AND PRODUCTS IN THE SOLID WASTE PROCESSING AND RECYCLING INDUSTRY IS COMPETITIVE, AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY. The market for services and products in the solid waste processing industry is highly competitive. Most of these competitors have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have, and may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or changing opportunities and customer requirements. Also, our competitors have greater name recognition and more extensive customer bases that they can leverage to gain market share. These competitors are able to undertake more extensive promotional activities, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and offer more attractive terms to purchasers than we can, which could adversely affect our competitive position and business. Likewise, the selling cycle for developing, permitting, financing and constructing new plants is long and will consume considerable resources. We may be unable to develop additional projects in a timely manner which may adversely affect our business. WE MAY ENGAGE IN STRATEGIC TRANSACTIONS THAT MAY FAIL TO ENHANCE STOCKHOLDER VALUE. We may investigate potential strategic transactions, including the acquisitions of products, technologies and companies, and other alternatives within and outside of our industry with the goal of maximizing stockholder value. We may never complete a strategic transaction(s) and in the event that we do complete a strategic transaction(s), it may not be consummated on terms favorable to us. Further, such transactions may impair stockholder value or otherwise adversely affect our business. Any such transaction may require us to incur non-recurring or other charges and may pose significant integration challenges and/or management and business disruptions, any of which could harm our results of operation and business prospects. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN OR SUSTAIN MARKET ACCEPTANCE FOR OUR SERVICES AND PRODUCTS. We do not intend to engage in advertising during our development phase. Failure to establish a brand and presence in the marketplace on a timely basis could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We may fail to successfully complete the development and introduction of new products or product enhancements, and new products that we develop may not achieve acceptance in the marketplace. We may also fail to develop and deploy new products and product enhancements on a timely basis. Any of the foregoing could require us to revise our business plan, raise additional capital or curtail operations. OUR SUCCESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO PROTECT OUR PROPRIETARY TECHNOLOGY. Our success depends, to a significant degree, upon the protection of our, and that of our licensors', proprietary technologies. We exploit our technology through owning the patent itself and through a sublicense of the patent from Bio-Products International, Inc (BPI). BPI licenses this patent from the patent owner, which had been, until recently, the University of Alabama in Huntsville (UAH). Although we recently acquired ownership of the patent from the University, our use of the technology is still subject to our sublicense with BPI. Additionally, the need to pursue additional protections for our intellectual property is likely as new products and techniques are developed and as existing products are enhanced, and such protections may not be attained in a timely manner or at all. Legal fees and other expenses necessary to obtain and maintain appropriate patent protection in the U.S. could be material. Insufficient funding may inhibit our ability to obtain and maintain such protection. Additionally, if we must resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights, or those of our licensors', the proceedings could be burdensome and expensive and could involve a high degree of risk to our proprietary rights if we are unsuccessful in, or cannot afford to pursue, such proceedings. 14 We also rely on trade secrets and contract law to protect certain of our proprietary technology. If any of our contracts is breached or if any of our trade secrets becomes known or independently discovered by third parties, we could face significant increased competition and our business could be harmed. If other persons independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and know-how, the result could be significant increased competition for our services. In addition, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or other proprietary rights from third parties. If we are unable to obtain such licenses on acceptable terms, we may encounter delays in product development or find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses could be foreclosed. IF WE DO NOT OBTAIN A SIGNIFICANT SUPPLY OF SOLID WASTE AND TIMELY PAYMENT FOR THAT SOLID WASTE, OUR OPERATING RESULTS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. If we do not obtain a supply of solid waste at quantities and qualities that are sufficient to operate our proposed facilities at the expected operating levels, or if third parties do not promptly pay for the solid waste they deliver to us for processing, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Additionally, our current waste supply agreement does not include a specification requirement for the composition of materials in our incoming waste stream. One or more of the following factors could impact the price and supply of waste: o defaults by waste suppliers under their contracts; o changing composition of the material in the waste stream, including the percentage of paper fiber; o a decline in recyclables in the solid waste supply due to increased recovery by material recovery facilities; o composting of municipal solid waste; o incineration of municipal solid waste; o legal prohibitions against processing of certain types of solid waste in our facilities; or o increased competition from landfills and increasingly automated recycling facilities. OUR REVENUES AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS WILL FLUCTUATE. Our revenues and results of operations will vary from quarter to quarter in the future. A number of factors, many of which are outside our control, may cause variations in our results of operations, including: o demand and price for our products; o the timing and recognition of product sales; o unexpected delays in developing and introducing products; o unexpected delays in building and permitting our processing facilities; o unexpected downtime in operations to maintain or improve equipment; 15 o increased expenses, whether related to plant operations, marketing, product development or administration or otherwise; o the mix of revenues derived from products; o the hiring, retention and utilization of personnel; o waste collection companies being impacted by seasonal and cyclical changes and facing competition, work stoppages and environmental issues that could adversely affect our business and operations; o general economic factors; and o changes in the revenue recognition policies required by generally accepted accounting principles. THE DEMAND FOR OUR SERVICES MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS. To a certain extent, demand for our services is created by environmental laws and regulations, including (a) requirements to safely dispose of RMSW by various methods including in properly constructed and operated landfills, (b) requirements to attempt to recycle a certain proportion of RMSW, and (c) requirements that businesses operating in the solid waste industry comply with applicable land, water and air emission regulations. The lack of environmental laws and regulations, or the loosening or non-enforcement of existing regulations, would decrease demand for our services and may have a material adverse affect on our business. THE LOSS OF KEY EXECUTIVES AND THE FAILURE TO ATTRACT QUALIFIED MANAGEMENT COULD LIMIT OUR GROWTH AND NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR OPERATIONS. We depend highly upon our senior management team. We will continue to depend on operations management personnel with waste handling experience. At this time, we do not know the availability of such experienced management personnel or how much it may cost to attract and retain such personnel. The loss of the services of any member of senior management or the inability to hire experienced operations management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. We do not have an employment agreement with our CEO. OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY CHANGING RESALE PRICES OR MARKET REQUIREMENTS FOR RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. The resale price for our recycled products, including our unbleached fiber product, aluminum, and steel, will be tied to commodity pricing. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by changing resale prices or market requirements for these recyclable materials. The resale, and market demand for, these materials can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond our control, which may cause significant variability in our period-to-period results of operations. ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS AND LITIGATION COULD SUBJECT US TO FINES, PENALTIES, JUDGMENTS AND LIMITATIONS ON OUR ABILITY TO EXPAND. We are subject to potential liability and restrictions under environmental laws, including those relating to handling, recycling, treatment, storage of wastes, discharges to air and water, and the remediation of contaminated soil, surface water and groundwater. We will also be subject to liability under laws relating to the production of ethanol, electricity and other energy products that we may produce in the future. The waste management industry has been, and will continue to be, subject to significant regulation, including permitting and related financial assurance requirements, as well as to attempts to further regulate the industry through new legislation. Our business is subject to a wide range of federal, state and, in some cases, local environmental, odor and noise and land use restrictions and regulations. If we are not able to comply with the 16 requirements that apply to a particular facility or if we operate without necessary approvals, we could be subject to civil, and possibly criminal, fines and penalties, and we may be required to spend substantial capital to bring an operation into compliance or to temporarily or permanently discontinue operations, and/or take corrective actions. We may not have sufficient insurance coverage for our environmental liabilities. Those costs or actions could be significant to us and significantly impact our results of operations, as well as our available capital. In addition to the costs of complying with environmental laws and regulations, if governmental agencies or private parties brought environmental litigation against us, we would likely incur substantial costs in defending against such actions. We may be, in the future, a defendant in lawsuits brought by parties alleging environmental damage, personal injury, and/or property damage. A judgment against us, or a settlement by us, could harm our business, our prospects and our reputation. FUTURE COSTS UNDER ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND SAFETY LAWS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. We could be liable if our operations cause environmental damage to our properties or to the property of other landowners, particularly as a result of the contamination of drinking water sources or soil. Under current law, we could even be held liable for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired the assets or operations involved. Any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO OBTAIN OR RETAIN PERMITS THAT ARE REQUIRED TO OPERATE OUR BUSINESS. Our failure to obtain or retain the permits required to operate our initial facility or additional facilities we may seek to construct would have a material negative effect on our business operations. Permits to operate waste processing facilities have become increasingly difficult and expensive to obtain and retain as a result of many factors including numerous hearings and compliance with zoning, environmental and other regulatory measures. The granting of these permits is also often subject to resistance from citizen or other groups and other political pressures. Our failure to obtain or retain the required permits to operate our facilities could have a material negative effect on our future results of operations. WE MAY BE EXPOSED TO SUBSTANTIAL LIABILITY CLAIMS IN THE ORDINARY COURSE OF OUR BUSINESS. Since our personnel are expected to routinely handle solid waste materials, we may be subject to liability claims by employees, customers and third parties. We currently have liability insurance in place, but such insurance may not be adequate to cover claims asserted against us. Also, we may be unable to maintain or purchase such insurance in the future. Either of these events could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition or our ability to raise additional capital. CLAIMS BY OTHER COMPANIES THAT WE INFRINGE THEIR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. If any of our products or processes is found to violate third party intellectual property rights, we may be required to re-engineer one or more of those products or processes or seek to obtain licenses from third parties to continue offering our products or processes without substantial re-engineering, and such efforts may not be successful. We may be unable to obtain such licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. Failure to do so could result in significant curtailment of our operations. Future patents may be issued to third parties upon which our technology may infringe. We may incur substantial costs in defending against claims under any such patents. Furthermore, parties making such claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which effectively could block our ability to further develop or commercialize some or all of our products or services, and 17 could result in the award of substantial damages against us. In the event of a claim of infringement, we may be required to obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We may be unable to obtain such licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any such license could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. OUR SUB-LICENSE AGREEMENT WITH BIO-PRODUCTS INTERNATIONAL, INC. IS NOT EXCLUSIVE IN ALL RESPECTS AND IMPOSES CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS ON US TO MAINTAIN EXCLUSIVITY IN SPECIFIED APPLICATIONS. Our sub-license agreement with BPI generally grants us the exclusive rights to exploit the technology covered by the license in the United States with respect to most applications. We do not, however, have the exclusive right to applications in which the cellulose biomass product of waste, including municipal solid waste, processed utilizing the licensed technology is either used directly as a fuel source or converted into an end product for energy production (although BPI agreed to grant us a sub-license for such applications on a site-specific basis upon our request). Accordingly, BPI may grant third parties the right to use the technology for the production of marketable solid combustion fuel end products. In order to maintain exclusivity with respect to the other applications, we are required to continue to improve our initial facility in Anaheim, California on a regular schedule or construct new facilities. Our failure to maintain exclusivity of the sub-license could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO IMPLEMENT SECTION 404 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT ON A TIMELY BASIS. The SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, adopted rules generally requiring each public company to include a report of management on the company's internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company's internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, the company's independent registered accounting firm must attest to and report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of the company's internal controls over financial reporting. The requirement to include such a report will first apply to our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. We have not yet developed a Section 404 implementation plan. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that need improvement. How companies should be implementing these new requirements including internal control reforms to comply with Section 404's requirements and how independent auditors will apply these requirements and test companies' internal controls, is still reasonably uncertain. We can not assure you that we will be able to complete a Section 404 plan on a timely basis. Additionally, upon completion of a Section 404 plan, we may not be able to conclude that our internal controls are effective, or in the event that we conclude that our internal controls are effective, our independent accountants may disagree with our assessment and may issue a report that is qualified. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could negatively affect our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. WE MAY BECOME SUBJECT TO LIABILITY AND INCUR INCREASED EXPENDITURES AS A RESULT OF THE RESTATEMENT OF OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. We previously restated our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 and the quarters ended March 31, 2005, June 30, 2005, and September 30, 2005, to correct certain accounting errors in the original financial statements related to the fair value of options and warrants, the relative value of senior secured debt and the related warrants and the classification of redeemable preferred stock. The principal accounting errors reflected in such financial statements that led to the restatements were as follows: 18 1. FAIR VALUE OF OPTIONS AND WARRANTS: In order to properly account for the expense associated with the issuance of options and warrants, we are required to determine the fair value of these securities. In determining this value we undertook a "Black Scholes" analysis, a method of valuation that takes into account the expected volatility of the stock underlying the convertible securities being valued. Because at the time of this valuation we had no stock trading history as a company with the operations of Old WWT (i.e. all of the trading had been as VPTI, a company with no operations), in determining expected volatility, we used the trading prices of a representative sample of companies within our industry as opposed to VPTI's trading history. Based on our review of current practices in applying the applicable accounting guidelines and further review of the authoritative accounting literature for new public companies, we concluded that the use of a volatility factor more consistent with our stage of life cycle and financial leverage would be more appropriate than a volatility factor based on the trading of shares of companies within our industry. We also changed the price used in calculating the fair value of the warrants issued in connection with the private placement of our Series A Preferred Stock from the price such shares were actually sold at to the quoted market price of our common stock as of the closing of such issuance. These changes affected primarily the recorded value on our balance sheet of debt offering costs, patent and licenses, senior secured debt, redeemable preferred stock, warrant liability, additional paid in capital and deficit accumulated during the development stage. For the year ended December 31, 2005, these changes resulted in a $250,507 increase in general and administrative expense and a $323,450 increase in fair value of warrant liabilities resulting in a $72,943 net decrease in our net loss for the year. In addition, the amortization of preferred stock warrants, offering costs and beneficial conversion feature classified similar to preferred stock dividends increased by $491,939. 2. RELATIVE FAIR VALUE: In November 2005 we completed a private placement of senior debt securities with detachable warrants. In accounting for this transaction, we discounted the recorded value of the senior debt securities by an amount equal to the fair value of the warrants. Upon further review of the applicable accounting literature, we determined that we should have discounted the senior debt for the "relative fair value" of the warrants rather than the "fair value" of the warrants. Although this had the effect of overstating the discount on the senior debt at December 31, 2005 by approximately $235,000, the change had no impact on our statement of operations for 2005. 3. PREFERRED STOCK: Our preferred stock had been classified as a liability because it is redeemable at the end of five years, at the option of the holders. Upon further review of authoritative literature, we determined that our preferred stock should have been classified as "mezzanine equity" rather than as a liability. This change had no impact on our statement of operations for 2005. Based on our assessment of the foregoing, we concluded that the factors that resulted in the restatements were caused by a lack of consistent authoritative guidance and not a failure to detect and assess the issues and collect relevant data. The restatement of these previously issued financial statements could expose us to legal and regulatory risk, such as securities class action or other lawsuits that may be brought against us or our officers and directors, or inquiries, proceedings or actions from United States federal or state regulatory agencies. The defense of any such actions could cause the diversion of management's attention and resources, and we could be required to pay damages to settle such actions if any such actions are not resolved in our favor. Even if resolved in our favor, such actions could cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses. Moreover, we may be the subject of negative publicity focusing on the financial statement inaccuracies and resulting restatements and negative reactions from our stockholders or others with which we do business. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could harm our business and reputation and cause the price of our securities to decline. 19 SUBSTANTIAL SALES OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO FALL. As of March 27, 2007, we had outstanding 26,257,122 shares of common stock and approximately 17.0 million shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of our outstanding preferred stock, as well as options and warrants to acquire up to an additional approximately 7.0 million shares of common stock. A substantial portion of these shares are either freely tradable shares or eligible for public resale under Rule 144. In addition, we currently have an effective registration statement on file with the SEC which covers the resale of approximately 32 million shares of our common stock (which includes shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of our preferred stock). Sales of the shares subject to Rule 144 or the registration statement, or the possibility that substantial amounts of common stock may be sold in the public market under Rule 144 or the registration statement, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. THE LIMITED MARKET FOR OUR COMMON STOCK MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT TRADING PRICES OR THE ABILITY OF A SHAREHOLDER TO SELL OUR SHARES IN THE PUBLIC MARKET. Our common stock is thinly-traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common stock at or near ask prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including that we are a small company that is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and would likely be reluctant to follow an unproven, early stage company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we became more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. SHAREHOLDERS MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY SELLING THEIR SHARES BECAUSE OUR SHARES ARE DEEMED "PENNY STOCKS." Since our common stock is not listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, if the trading price of our common stock remains below $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock will continue to be subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a penny stock (generally, any non-Nasdaq equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions). Such rules require the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally defined as an investor with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 individually or $300,000 together with a spouse). For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to the broker-dealer, current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer's presumed control over the market. Such information must be provided to the customer orally or in writing before or with the written confirmation of trade sent to the customer. Monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of our common stock and the ability of holders of our common stock to sell their shares. 20 THE HOLDERS OF OUR PREFERRED STOCK HAVE CERTAIN RIGHTS THAT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE VALUE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Under our articles of incorporation, our board of directors has the power, without further action by the holders of our common stock, to designate the relative rights and preferences of the preferred stock, and to issue the preferred stock in one or more series as designated by our board of directors. The designation of rights and preferences could include preferences as to liquidation, redemption and conversion rights, voting rights, dividends or other preferences, any of which may be dilutive of the interest of the holders of our common stock or the preferred stock of any other series. The issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company without further stockholder action and may adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of the holders of our common stock. We currently have two such series of preferred stock, designated as "8% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Convertible Participating Preferred Stock" and "8% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Convertible Participating Preferred Stock." The rights, preferences and privileges of our preferred stock are described under note 9 to our financial statements. OUR DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND THEIR AFFILIATES HOLD A SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF OUR COMMON STOCK AND MAY BE ABLE TO PREVENT OTHER STOCKHOLDERS FROM INFLUENCING SIGNIFICANT CORPORATE DECISIONS. Our directors and executive officers and their affiliates beneficially own a substantial amount of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, if they were to act together, would likely be able to direct the outcome of matters requiring approval of the stockholders, including the election of our directors and other corporate actions such as: o our merger with or into another company; o a sale of substantially all of our assets; and o amendments to our articles of incorporation. The decisions of these stockholders may conflict with our interests or those of our other stockholders. In addition, the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock currently have the right, upon 30 days' prior notice to us, to appoint, as a class, a majority of the members of our Board of Directors. This right terminates upon the first to occur of (i) the Operational Date (generally defined as if and when our initial plant in Anaheim, California generates total operating cash flow of at least $672,000 for any consecutive three month period) and (ii) the date on which less than 3.0 million shares of Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding. THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR STOCK MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY MARKET VOLATILITY. The market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to many factors, including: o actual or anticipated variations in our operating results due to the level of development expenses and other factors; o developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; o announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; o announcements of new products or new contracts by us or our competitors; 21 o changes in financial estimates by securities analysts and whether our earnings meet or exceed such estimates; o conditions and trends in the waste industry and other industries; o changing environmental standards; o new accounting standards; o general economic, political and market conditions and other factors; and o the occurrence of any of the other risks described in this prospectus. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 