D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to the Bank’s Business Bladex faces liquidity risk, and its failure to adequately manage this risk could result in a liquidity shortage, which could adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Bladex, like all financial institutions, faces liquidity risk, or the risk of not being able to maintain adequate cash flow to repay its deposits and borrowings and fund its credit portfolio on a timely basis. Failure to adequately manage its liquidity risk could produce a cash shortage as a result of which the Bank would not be able to repay these obligations as they become due. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 12% of the Bank’s funding represents short-term borrowings from international banks, the majority of which are European, North American and Asian institutions, which compete with the Bank in its credit extension activity and represent a source of business for the Bank. If these international banks cease to provide funding to the Bank, the Bank would have to seek funding from other sources, which may not be available, or if available, may be at a higher cost. Financial turmoil in the international markets could negatively impact liquidity in the financial markets, reducing the Bank’s access to credit or increasing its cost of funding, which could lead to tighter lending standards. An example of this situation is the liquidity constraint experienced since the second half of 2007 in the international financial markets, which intensified during the third quarter of 2008, driven first by the subprime crisis in the United States and then followed by the credit crisis. The reoccurrence of such unfavorable market conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s liquidity. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 26% of the Bank’s short-term funding represents deposits from Central Banks. As a U.S. dollar-based economy, Panama does not have a central bank in the traditional sense, and there is no lender of last resort to the banking system in the country. Central Banks in the Region would not be obligated to act as lenders of last resort if Bladex were to face a liquidity shortage and the Bank would have to rely on commercial liquidity sources to cover the shortfall. The Bank’s allowances for credit losses could be inadequate to cover credit losses related to its loans and contingencies. The Bank determines the appropriate level of allowances for credit losses based on a process that estimates the probable loss inherent in its portfolio, which is the result of a statistical analysis supported by the Bank’s historical portfolio performance and the qualitative judgment of the Bank’s Management. The latter includes assumptions and estimates made in the context of changing political and economic conditions in the Region. The Bank’s allowances could be inadequate to cover losses in its credit portfolio due to exposure concentration or deterioration in certain sectors or countries, which in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Bank’s businesses are subject to market risk. Market risk generally represents the risk that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. Market risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with many of the Bank’s operations and activities, including loans, deposits, investment and trading securities, short-term borrowings, long-term debt, derivatives and trading positions. Among many other market conditions that may shift from time to time are fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates, changes in the implied volatility of interest rates and changes in securities prices, due to changes in either market perception or actual credit quality of either the issuer or its country of origin. Accordingly, depending on the instruments or activities impacted, market risks can have wide ranging, complex adverse affects on the Bank’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and business. See Item 11, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.” 7 The Bank faces interest rate risk that is caused by the mismatch in maturities of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. If not properly managed, this mismatch can reduce net interest income as interest rates fluctuate. As a bank, Bladex faces interest rate risk because interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice at a different pace than interest-earning assets. Bladex’s exposure to instruments whose values vary with the level or volatility of interest rates contributes to its interest rate risk. Failure to adequately manage eventual mismatches may reduce the Bank’s net interest income during periods of fluctuating interest rates. The Bank’s credit portfolio may decrease or may not continue to grow at the present or a similar rate. It is difficult to predict that the Bank’s credit portfolio, including the Bank’s foreign trade portfolio, will continue to grow in the future at historical rates. A reversal in the growth rate of the Region’s economy and trade volumes could adversely affect the growth rate of the Bank’s credit portfolio. Increased competition and banking industry consolidation could limit the Bank’s ability to grow and may adversely affect results of operations. Most of the competition the Bank faces in the trade finance business comes from international banks, the majority of which are European and North American institutions. Many of these international banks have substantially greater resources than the Bank and enjoy access to less expensive funding than the Bank does. It is difficult to predict how increased competition will affect the Bank’s growth prospects and results of operations. Merger activity in the financial services industry has produced companies that are capable of offering a wide array of financial products and services at competitive prices. Globalization of the capital markets and financial services industries exposes the Bank to further competition. The Bank’s ability to grow its business and therefore, its earnings, is affected by these competitive pressures. Operational problems or errors can have a material adverse impact on the Bank’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Bladex, like all financial institutions, is exposed to operational risks, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, failure to obtain proper internal authorizations, failure to properly document transactions, equipment failures, and errors by employees. For example, any failure, interruption or breach in the security or operation of the Bank’s information technology systems could result in interruptions in the Bank’s risk management, deposit servicing, loan organization and/or other important activities. Operational problems or errors may occur, and their occurrence may have a material adverse impact on the Bank’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Bank has an operational risk function that evaluates the operational risk level of every key product or process that could have an impact on its financial statements. Each incident reported, with real or potential loss, is registered in an operational risk database. On a periodic basis, the Bank’s Management is informed of the relevant incidents that occurred (if any), as well as the suggested mitigation plan. Any delays or failure to implement business initiatives that the Bank may undertake could prevent the Bank from realizing the anticipated revenues and benefits of the initiatives. Part of the Bank’s strategy is to diversify income sources through business initiatives, including targeting new clients and developing new products and services. These initiatives may not be fully implemented within the time frame the Bank expects, or at all. In addition, even if such initiatives are fully implemented, they may not generate revenues as expected. Any delays in implementing these business initiatives could prevent the Bank from realizing the anticipated benefits of the initiatives, which could adversely affect the Bank’s business, results of operations and growth prospects. 8 Any failure to remain in compliance with applicable banking laws in the jurisdictions in which the Bank operates could harm its reputation and/or cause it to become subject to fines, sanctions or legal enforcement, which could have an adverse effect on the Bank’s business, financial condition and results of operation. Bladex believes that it is in compliance with applicable laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates, including anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing laws and regulations. Bladex has adopted various policies and procedures to ensure compliance with applicable laws, including internal controls and “know-your-customer” procedures aimed at preventing money laundering and terrorist financing. The participation of multiple parties in any given trade finance transaction can make the process of due diligence difficult. Further, because trade finance can be more document-based than other banking activities, it is susceptible to documentary fraud, which can be linked to money laundering, terrorist financing, illicit activities and/or the circumvention of sanctions or other restrictions (such as export prohibitions, licensing requirements, or controls). While the Bank is alert to high-risk transactions, it is also aware that efforts, such as forgery, double invoicing, partial shipments of goods and use of fictitious goods, may be used to evade applicable laws and regulations. If the Bank’s policies and procedures are ineffective in preventing third parties from using it as a conduit for money laundering or terrorist financing without its knowledge, the Bank’s reputation could suffer and/or it could become subject to fines, sanctions or legal enforcement (including being added to any “blacklists” that would prohibit certain parties from engaging in transactions with the Bank), which could have an adverse effect on the Bank’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Risk Relating to the Region The Bank’s credit portfolio is concentrated in the Region. The Bank also faces borrower concentration. Adverse economic changes in the Region or in the condition of the Bank’s largest borrowers could adversely affect the Bank’s growth, asset quality, prospects, profitability, financial condition and financial results. The Bank’s credit activities are concentrated in the Region, which is a reflection of the Bank’s mission and strategy. Historically, economies of countries in the Region have occasionally experienced significant volatility characterized, in some cases, by political uncertainty, slow growth or recessions, declining investments, government and private sector debt defaults and restructurings, and significant inflation and/or devaluation. Global economic changes, including oil prices, commodities prices, U.S. dollar interest rates, the U.S. dollar exchange rate, and slower economic growth in industrialized countries, could have a significant adverse effect on the economic condition of countries in the Region. In turn, adverse changes affecting the economies of countries in the Region could have a significant adverse impact on the quality of the Bank’s credit portfolio, including increased loan loss provisions, debt restructuring, and loan losses. As a result, this could also have an adverse impact on the Bank’s asset growth, asset quality, prospects, profitability and financial condition. The Bank’s credit activities are concentrated in a relatively small number of countries, which could have an adverse impact on the Bank’s credit portfolio and, as a result, its financial condition, growth, prospects, results of operations and financial condition, if one or more of those countries encounters economic difficulties. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 75% of the Bank’s credit portfolio was outstanding to borrowers in the following five countries: Brazil ($1,484 million, or 41%), Mexico ($418 million, or 12%), Colombia ($343 million, or 9%), Chile ($286 million, or 8%), and Peru ($191 million, or 5%). In addition, as of December 31, 2009, of the Bank’s total credit portfolio balances, 12% were to five borrowers in Brazil, 5% were to five borrowers in Mexico, 7% were to five borrowers in Colombia, 7% were to five borrowers in Chile, and 5% were to five borrowers in Peru. A significant deterioration of the financial or economic condition of any of these countries or borrowers could have an adverse impact on the Bank’s credit portfolio, requiring the Bank to create additional allowances for credit losses, or suffer credit losses with the effect being accentuated because of this concentration. 9 Local country foreign exchange controls or currency devaluation may harm the Bank’s borrowers’ ability to pay U.S. dollar-denominated obligations. The Bank makes mostly U.S. dollar-denominated loans and investments. As a result, the Bank faces the risk that local country foreign exchange controls will restrict the ability of the Bank’s borrowers, even if they are exporters, to acquire dollars to repay loans on a timely basis, and/or that significant currency devaluation might occur, which could increase the cost, in local currency terms, to the Bank’s borrowers of acquiring dollars to repay loans. Increased risk perception in countries in the Region where the Bank has large credit exposure could have an adverse impact on the Bank’s credit ratings, funding activities and funding costs. Increased risk perception in any country in the Region where the Bank has large exposures could trigger downgrades to the Bank’s credit ratings. A credit rating downgrade would likely increase the Bank’s funding costs, and reduce its deposit base and access to the debt capital markets. In that case, the Bank’s ability to obtain the necessary funding to carry on its financing activities in the Region at meaningful levels could be affected in an important way. Item 