Risk Factors Risks Relating to the Region The Bank’s credit portfolio is concentrated in Latin America and the Caribbean. The Bank also faces borrower concentration. Adverse economic changes in those countries or in the condition of the Bank’s largest borrowers could affect adversely the Bank’s growth, asset quality, prospects, profitability and financial condition. The Bank’s credit activities are concentrated in Central and South America and the Caribbean (the “Region”), which is a reflection of the Bank’s mission and strategy. Historically, economies of countries in the Region have occasionally experienced significant volatility characterized, in some cases, by political uncertainty, slow growth or recession, declining investments, government and private sector debt defaults and restructurings, significant inflation and/or devaluation. Global economic changes, including oil prices, commodities prices, the U.S. dollar interest rates and exchange rate, and slower economic growth in industrialized countries, could have a significant adverse effect on the economic condition of countries in the Region. In turn, adverse changes affecting the economies of countries in the Region could have a significant adverse impact on the quality of the Bank’s credit portfolio, including increased loan loss provisions, debt restructurings, and loan losses. As a result, this could also have an adverse impact on the Bank’s asset growth, asset quality, prospects, profitability and financial condition. The Bank’s credit activities are concentrated in a relatively small number of countries, which could have an adverse impact on the Bank’s credit portfolio and, as a result, its financial condition, growth, prospects, results of operations and financial condition if one or more of those countries encounters economic difficulties. At December 31, 2007, approximately 67% of the Bank’s credit portfolio was outstanding to borrowers in the following four countries: Brazil ($1,728 million, or 36%); Colombia ($530 million, or 11%); Peru ($484 million, or 10%); and Mexico ($451 million, or 9%). 6 In addition, at December 31, 2007, 11% of the Bank’s total credits were to five borrowers in Brazil, and 13% of total credits were to four borrowers from Peru (5%), Colombia (3%), Mexico (2%) and Venezuela (3%). A significant deterioration of the financial or economic condition of any of these countries or borrowers could have an adverse impact on the Bank’s credit portfolio, requiring the Bank to create additional allowances for credit losses, or suffer credit losses with the effect being accentuated because of this concentration. Local country foreign exchange controls or currency devaluation may harm the Bank’s borrowers’ ability to pay U.S. dollar-denominated obligations. The Bank makes mostly U.S. dollar-denominated loans and investments. As a result, the Bank faces the risk that local country foreign exchange controls will restrict the ability of the Bank’s borrowers, even if they are exporters, to acquire dollars to repay loans on a timely basis, and/or that significant currency devaluation will occur, which could increase the cost, in local currency terms, to the Bank’s borrowers of acquiring dollars to repay loans. Increased risk perception in countries in the Region where the Bank has large credit exposure could have an adverse impact on the Bank’s credit ratings, funding activities and funding costs. Increased risk perception in any country in the Region where the Bank has large exposures could trigger downgrades to the Bank’s credit ratings. A credit rating downgrade would likely increase the Bank’s funding costs, and reduce its deposit base and access to the debt capital markets. In that case, the Bank’s ability to obtain the necessary funding to carry on its financing activities in the Region at meaningful levels could be severely hampered. Risks Relating to the Bank’s Business Bladex faces liquidity risk, and its failure to adequately manage this risk could result in a liquidity shortage, which could adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Bladex, like all financial institutions, faces liquidity risk, or the risk of not being able to maintain adequate cash flow to repay its deposits and borrowings, and fund its credit portfolio on a timely basis. Failure to adequately manage its liquidity risk could produce a cash shortage as a result of which the Bank would not be able to repay these obligations as they become due. Approximately one third of the Bank’s funding represents short-term borrowings from international banks, the majority of which are European and North American institutions, which also compete with the Bank in its credit extension activity, and represent a source of business for the Bank, as well. If these international banks ceased to provide funding to the Bank, the Bank would have to seek funding from other sources, which may not be available, or if available, may be at higher interest cost. Financial turnmoil in the international markets could negatively impact liquidity in the financial markets, reducing the Bank’s access to credit or increasing its cost of funding, which could lead to tighter lending standards. An example of this situation is the liquidity constraint experienced since the second half of 2007 in the international financial markets, driven by the subprime crisis in the United States. The persistence or worsening of these unfavorable market conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Bank's liquidity. As a U.S. dollar-based economy, Panama does not have a central bank in the traditional sense, and there is no lender of last resort to the banking system in the country. Central banks in other Latin American and Caribbean countries would not be obligated to act as lenders of last resort if Bladex were to face a liquidity shortage. Accordingly, if the Bank faced a liquidity shortage, it would have to rely on commercial liquidity sources to resolve the liquidity shortage. The Bank’s allowances for credit losses could be inadequate to cover credit losses related to its loans and contingencies. The Bank determines the appropriate level of allowances for credit losses based on a process that estimates the probable loss inherent in its portfolio, which is the result of a statistical analysis supported by the Bank’s historical portfolio performance and the Bank’s management’s qualitative judgment. The latter includes assumptions and estimates made in the context of changing political and economic conditions in the Region. The Bank’s allowances could be inadequate to cover losses in its credit portfolio due to exposure concentration, which in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 7 The Bank’s businesses are subject to market risk. Market risk generally represents the risk that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. Market risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with many of the Bank’s operations and activities, including loans, deposits, investment and trading securities, short-term borrowings, long-term debt, derivatives and trading positions. Among many other market conditions that may shift from time to time are fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates, changes in the implied volatility of interest rates and changes in securities prices, due to changes in either market perception or actual credit quality of either the issuer or its country of origin. Accordingly, depending on the instruments or activities impacted, market risks can have wide ranging, complex adverse affects on the Bank’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and business. See Item 11, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk”. The Bank faces interest rate risk which is caused by the mismatch in maturities of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. If not properly managed, this mismatch can reduce net interest income as interest rates fluctuate. As a bank, Bladex faces interest rate risk because interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice at a different pace than interest-earning assets. Failure to adequately manage eventual mismatches may reduce the Bank’s net interest income during periods of fluctuating interest rates. Operational problems or errors can have a material adverse impact on the Bank’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Bladex, like all financial institutions, is exposed to operational risks, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, failure to obtain proper internal authorizations, failure to properly document transactions, equipment failures, and errors by employees. Operational problems or errors may occur, and their occurrence may have a material adverse impact on the Bank’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Bladex, has an Operational Risk department that evaluates the operational risk level of every key product or process that could have an impact on the financial statements. This department coordinates periodic training for all personnel and auto-evaluations with the participation of those personnel controlling each process. Each incident reported, with real or potential loss, is registered in an operational risk database, and on a quarterly basis, the Bank’s management is informed of the relevant incidents that occurred (if any) and the suggested mitigation plan. The Bank’s credit portfolio may not continue to grow at the same or similar rate. No assurance can be given that, in the future, the Bank’s credit portfolio, including the Bank’s foreign trade portfolio, will continue to grow at historical rates. A reversal in the growth rate of the Region’s economy and trade volumes could adversely affect the growth rate of the Bank’s credit portfolio. Increased competition and banking industry consolidation could limit the Bank’s ability to grow and may adversely affect results of operations. Most of the competition the Bank faces in the trade finance business comes from international banks, the majority of which are European and North American institutions. Many of these international banks have substantially greater resources than the Bank and enjoy access to less expensive funding than the Bank does. There can be no assurance that increased competition will not adversely affect the Bank’s growth prospects and results of operations. Merger activity in the financial services industry has produced companies that are capable of offering a wide array of financial products and services at competitive prices. Globalization of the capital markets and financial services industries exposes the Bank to further competition. The Bank's ability to grow its business and, therefore, its earnings, is affected by these competitive pressures. 8 Any delays or failure to implement business initiatives that the Bank may undertake could prevent the Bank from realizing the anticipated revenues and benefits of the initiatives. Part of the Bank’s strategy is to diversify income sources through business initiatives, including targeting new clients and developing new products and services. These initiatives may not be fully implemented within the time frame the Bank expects, or at all. In addition, even if such initiatives are fully implemented, they may not generate revenues as expected. Any delays in implementing these business initiatives could prevent the Bank from realizing the anticipated benefits of the initiatives, which could adversely affect the Bank’s business, results of operations and growth prospects. Item 