Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks, including the following: Our results of operations may vary from quarter to quarter as a result of a number of factors, which may make it difficult to evaluate our business and could cause instability in the trading price of our common stock. Factors that may cause our quarterly results to fluctuate include: •the level of demand for our temporary staffing services and the efficiency with which we source and assign our contract professionals and support our staffing consultants in the execution of their duties; •changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; and •our ability to control costs and manage our accounts receivable balances. In addition, most temporary staffing companies experience seasonal declines in demand during the first and fourth quarters as a result of fewer business days and the reduced number of contract professionals willing to work during the holidays. Historically, we have experienced variability in the duration and depth of these seasonal declines, which in turn have materially affected our quarterly results of operations and made period-to-period comparisons of our financial and operating performance difficult. If our operating results are below the expectations of public market analysts or investors in a given quarter, the trading price of our common stock could decline. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified contract professionals for our Life Sciences, Healthcare, Physician and IT and Engineering segments, our business could be negatively impacted. Our business is substantially dependent upon our ability to attract and retain contract professionals who possess the skills, experience and, as required, licenses to meet the specified requirements of our clients. We compete for such contract professionals with other temporary staffing companies and with our clients and potential clients. Currently, there is a shortage of qualified nurses in most areas of the United States. Competition for nursing personnel is increasing and salaries and benefits have risen. Further, there can be no assurance that qualified healthcare, life science, IT and engineering professionals will be available to us in adequate numbers to staff our operating segments. Moreover, our contract professionals are often hired to become regular employees of our clients. Attracting and retaining contract professionals depends on several factors, including our ability to provide contract professionals with desirable assignments and competitive benefits and wages. The cost of attracting and retaining contract professionals may be higher than we anticipate and, as a result, if we are unable to pass these costs on to our clients, our likelihood of achieving or maintaining profitability could decline. If we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of contract professionals to meet client demand, we may be required to forgo staffing and revenue opportunities, which may hurt the growth of our business. We may not successfully make or integrate acquisitions, which could harm our business and growth. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to opportunistically pursue selected acquisitions. We compete with other companies in the professional staffing and consulting industries for acquisition opportunities, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to effect future acquisitions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In January 2007, we acquired VISTA and Oxford. With 15 these two recent acquisitions or to the extent we enter into acquisition transactions in the future, we may experience: •delays in realizing or a failure to realize the benefits, cost savings and synergies that we anticipate; •difficulties or higher-than-anticipated costs associated with integrating any acquired companies into our businesses; •attrition of key personnel from acquired businesses; •diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; •inability to maintain the business relationships and reputation of the acquired companies; •difficulties in integrating the acquired companies into our information systems, controls, policies and procedures; •additional risks relating to the businesses or industry of the acquired companies that are different from ours; •unexpected costs or charges; or •unforeseen operating difficulties that require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing operations. We incurred debt for our recent acquisitions, which increased our interest expense. To undertake more transactions, we may incur additional debt in the future. We may face unexpected contingent liabilities arising from these or future acquisitions that could harm our business. We may also issue additional equity in connection with these transactions, which would dilute our existing shareholders. If we cannot attract, develop and retain qualified and skilled staffing consultants, our business growth will suffer. A key component of our ability to grow our lines of business is our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified and skilled staffing consultants, particularly persons with industry experience. The available pool of qualified staffing consultant candidates is limited, and further constrained by the industry practice of entering into non-compete agreements with these employees, which may restrict their ability to accept employment with other staffing firms, including us. We cannot assure that we will be able to recruit, develop and retain qualified staffing consultants in sufficient numbers or that our staffing consultants will achieve productivity levels sufficient to enable growth of our business. Failure to attract and retain productive staffing consultants could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Reclassification of our independent contractors by tax authorities could materially and adversely affect our business model and could require us to pay significant retroactive wages, taxes and penalties. We consider our locum tenens physicians to be independent contractors rather than employees. As such, we do not withhold or pay income or other employment related taxes or provide workers' compensation insurance for them. Our classification of locum tenens physicians as independent contractors is consistent with general industry standard, but can nonetheless be challenged by the contractors themselves as well as the relevant taxing authorities. If federal or state taxing authorities determine that locums tenens physicians engaged as independent contractors are employees, our business model for that segment would be materially and adversely 16 affected. Although we believe we would qualify for safe harbor under the provisions of Section 530 of the Revenue Act of 1978, Pub. L. No. 95-600 ("Section 530"), and any similar applicable state laws, we could incur significant liability for past wages, taxes, penalties and other employment benefits if we could not so qualify. In addition, many states have laws that prohibit non-physician owned companies from employing physicians. If our independent contractor physicians are classified as employees, we could be found in violation of such state laws, which could subject us to liability in those states and thereby negatively impact on our profitability. If we lose a major client in our Nurse Travel line of business and are not able to replace the lost business quickly, our business could be negatively impacted. Our top ten clients in the Nurse Travel line of business accounted for 28.6 percent of Nurse Travel revenues in 2007. The loss of a major client in Nurse Travel and the failure to replace the lost business with existing or new clients could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In 2007, we earned 2.9 percent of our consolidated revenues from several customers operating under a single contract with Los Angeles County. The revenues from this contract are included in Healthcare segment revenues. No other single customer or contract accounted for 2.9 percent or more of total revenues during 2007. If our information systems do not function in a cost effective manner, our business will be harmed. The operation of our business is dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems. In 2006 and 2007, we continued to upgrade our information technology systems, including PeopleSoft and Vurv Technology, enterprise-wide information systems. Critical information systems used in daily operations identify and match staffing resources and client assignments, track regulatory credentialing, manage scheduling and also perform billing and accounts receivable functions. If the systems fail to perform reliably or otherwise do not meet our expectations, or if we fail to successfully complete the implementation of other modules of the systems, we could experience business interruptions that could result in deferred or lost sales. Our information systems are vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins and similar events. Our network infrastructure is currently co-located at a single facility in Burbank, California. As a result, any system failure or service outage at this primary facility could result in a loss of service for the duration of the failure of the outage. Our location in Southern California is susceptible to earthquakes and has, in the past, experienced power shortages and outages, any of which could result in system failures or outages. In 2007, we began the process of relocating our network from Burbank, California to our facility in Salt Lake City, Utah. If we are unable to successfully complete this migration without interruption, it could impact our business. If our information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, these functions would have to be accomplished manually, which could impact our ability to respond to business opportunities quickly, to pay our staff in a timely fashion and to bill for services efficiently. If we are not able to remain competitive in obtaining and retaining temporary staffing clients, our future growth will suffer. The contract staffing industry is highly competitive and fragmented with limited barriers to entry. We compete in national, regional and local markets with full-service agencies and in regional and local markets with specialized contract staffing agencies. Some of our competitors in the Nurse Travel line of business include AMN Healthcare Services, Inc. Cross Country, Inc. and several privately-held companies. Some of our competitors in the Life Sciences segment and Allied Healthcare line of business include Kelly Services, Inc., Manpower, Inc., Adecco, SA, Kforce Inc. and Yoh Scientific. Competitors for the Physician segment include the locum tenens divisions of 17 CHG Healthcare Services, TeamHealth, Inc. and AMN Healthcare Services, Inc., along with several other privately-held companies specializing in locum tenens. Competitors of our IT and Engineering segment include Robert Half International, Accenture, International Business Machines Corporation (IBM) and the Yoh Company. Several of these companies have significantly greater marketing and financial resources than we do. Our ability to attract and retain clients is based on the value of the service we deliver, which in turn depends principally on the speed with which we fill assignments and the appropriateness of the match based on clients' requirements and the skills and experience of our contract professionals. Our ability to attract skilled, experienced contract professionals is based on our ability to pay competitive wages or contract rates, to provide competitive benefits and to provide multiple, continuous assignments, thereby increasing the retention rate of these employees or contractors. To the extent that competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices or increasing marketing expenditures, we could lose revenues and our gross and operating margins could decline, which could seriously harm our operating results and cause the trading price of our stock to decline. As we expand into new geographic markets, our success will depend in part on our ability to gain market share from competitors. We expect competition for clients to increase in the future, and the success and growth of our business depend on our ability to remain competitive. Our contract staffing agreements may be terminated by clients and contract professionals at will and the termination of a significant number of such agreements would adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Each contract professional's employment with us is terminable at will. A locum tenens physician may generally terminate his or her contract with VISTA for non-emergency reasons upon 60 days notice. The duration of agreements with clients are generally dictated by the contract. Usually, contracts with clients may be terminated with 30 days notice by us or by the clients. We cannot assure that existing clients will continue to use our services at historical levels, if at all. If clients terminate a significant number of our staffing agreements and we are unable to generate new contract staffing orders to replace lost revenues or a significant number of our contract professionals terminate their employment with us and we are unable to find suitable replacements, our revenues and results of operations could be harmed. We are subject to business risks associated with international operations, which could make our international operations significantly more costly. As of December 31, 2007, we had international operations in the United Kingdom, Netherlands, Belgium and Ireland. We have limited experience in marketing, selling and, particularly, supporting our services outside of North America. Operations in certain markets are subject to risks inherent in international business activities, including: •fluctuations in currency exchange rates; •complicated work permit requirements; •varying economic and political conditions; •seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe and Asia; •overlapping or differing tax structures; •difficulties collecting accounts receivable; and •regulations concerning pay rates, benefits, vacation, union membership, redundancy payments and the termination of employment. 18 Our inability to effectively manage our international operations could result in increased costs and adversely affect our results of operations. Improper activities of our contract professionals could result in damage to our business reputation, discontinuation of our client relationships and exposure to liability. We may be subject to possible claims by our clients related to errors and omissions, misuse of proprietary information, discrimination and harassment, theft and other criminal activity, malpractice and other claims stemming from the improper activities or alleged activities of our contract professionals. We cannot assure that our current liability insurance coverage will be adequate or will continue to be available in sufficient amounts to cover damages or other costs associated with such claims. Claims raised by clients stemming from the improper actions of our contract professionals, even if without merit, could cause us to incur significant expense associated with the costs or damages related to such claims. Further, such claims by clients could damage our business reputation and result in the discontinuation of client relationships. Claims against us by our contract professionals for damages resulting from the negligence or mistreatment by our clients could result in significant costs and adversely affect our recruitment and retention efforts. We may be subject to possible claims by our contract professionals alleging discrimination, sexual harassment, negligence and other similar activities by our clients. Our physicians may also be subject to medical malpractice claims. We cannot assure that our current liability insurance coverage will be adequate or will continue to be available in sufficient amounts to cover damages or other costs associated with such claims. Claims raised by our contract professionals, even if without merit, could cause us to incur significant expense associated with the costs or damages related to such claims. Further, any associated negative publicity could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain qualified contract professionals in the future. If we are required to further write down goodwill or identifiable intangible assets, the related charge could materially impact our reported net income or loss for the period in which it occurs. In 2004, we recorded a charge of $26.4 million related to impairment of goodwill and an impairment charge of $3.9 million related to our identifiable intangible assets. We did not record any such charges in 2005, 2006 or 2007. However, we continue to have approximately $193.6 million in goodwill on our balance sheet at December 31, 2007, as well as $41.0 million in identifiable intangible assets. As part of the analysis of goodwill impairment, SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" (SFAS 142), requires the Company's management to estimate the fair value of the reporting units on at least an annual basis. At December 31, 2007, we performed our annual goodwill impairment test and concluded that there was no further impairment of goodwill. In addition, at December 31, 2007, we determined that there were no events or changes in circumstances that indicated that the carrying values of other identifiable intangible assets subject to amortization may not be recoverable. Although a future impairment of the remaining $193.6 million in goodwill and $41.0 million in identifiable intangible assets on our balance sheet at December 31, 2007 would not affect our cash flow, it would negatively impact our operating results. 19 If we are subject to material uninsured liabilities under our partially self-insured workers' compensation program and medical malpractice coverage, our financial results could be adversely affected. We maintain a partially self-insured workers' compensation program and medical malpractice coverage. In connection with these programs, we pay a base premium plus actual losses incurred up to certain levels. We are insured for losses greater than certain levels, both per occurrence and in the aggregate. There can be no assurance that our loss reserves and insurance coverage will be adequate in amount to cover all workers' compensation or medical malpractice claims. If we become subject to substantial uninsured workers' compensation or medical malpractice liabilities, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our costs of providing travel and housing for nurses and other traveling contract professionals may be higher than we anticipate and, as a result, our margins could decline. If our travel and housing costs, including the costs of airline tickets, rental cars, apartments and rental furniture for our nurses and other traveling contract professionals exceed the levels we anticipate, and we are unable to pass such increases on to our clients, our margins may decline. To the extent the length of our apartment leases exceed the terms of our staffing contracts, we bear the risk that we will be obligated to pay rent for housing we do not use. If we cannot source a sufficient number of appropriate short-term leases in regional markets, or if, for any reason, we are unable to efficiently utilize the apartments we do lease, we may be required to pay rent for unutilized or underutilized housing. As we continue to expand our Nurse Travel line of business, effective management of travel costs will be necessary to prevent a decrease in gross profit and gross and operating margins. Demand for our services is significantly impacted by changes in the general level of economic activity and continued periods of reduced economic activity could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Demand for the contract staffing services that we provide is significantly impacted by changes in the general level of economic activity, particularly any negative effect on healthcare, research and development and quality control spending. As economic activity slows, many clients or potential clients for our services reduce their usage of and reliance upon contract professionals before laying off their regular, full-time employees. During periods of reduced economic activity, we may also be subject to increased competition for market share and pricing pressure. As a result, continued periods of reduced economic activity could harm our business and results of operations. We do not have long-term or exclusive agreements with our temporary staffing clients and growth of our business depends upon our ability to continually secure and fill new orders. We do not have long-term agreements or exclusive guaranteed order contracts with our temporary staffing clients. Assignments for our Life Sciences segment typically have a term of three to six months. Assignments for our Healthcare segment typically have a term of two to thirteen weeks. Assignments for our Physician segment typically have a term of six weeks. Assignments for our IT and Engineering segment typically have a term of approximately five months. The success of our business depends upon our ability to continually secure new orders from clients and to fill those orders with our contract professionals. Our agreements do not provide for exclusive use of our services, and clients are free to place orders with our competitors. As a result, it is imperative to our business that we maintain positive relationships with our clients. If we fail to maintain positive relationships with these clients, we may be unable to generate new contract staffing orders, and the growth of our business could be adversely affected. 20 Fluctuation in patient occupancy rates at client facilities could adversely affect demand for services of our Healthcare and Physician segments and our results of operations. Client demand for our Healthcare and Physician segment services is significantly impacted by changes in patient occupancy rates at our hospital and healthcare clients' facilities. Increases in occupancy often result in increased client need for contract professionals before full-time employees can be hired. During periods of decreased occupancy, however, hospitals and other healthcare facilities typically reduce their use of contract professionals before laying off their regular, full-time employees. During periods of decreased occupancy, we may experience increased competition to service clients, including pricing pressure. Occupancy at certain healthcare clients' facilities also fluctuates due to the seasonality of some elective procedures. Periods of decreased occupancy at client healthcare facilities could materially adversely affect our results of operations. The loss of key members of our senior management team could adversely affect the execution of our business strategy and our financial results. We believe that the successful execution of our business strategy and our ability to build upon the significant recent investments in our business and acquisitions of new businesses depends on the continued employment of key members of our senior management team. If any members of our senior management team become unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, our financial results and our business could be materially adversely affected. Future changes in reimbursement trends could hamper our Healthcare and Physician segments clients' ability to pay us, which would harm our financial results. Many of our Healthcare and Physician segments' clients are reimbursed under the federal Medicare program and state Medicaid programs for the services they provide. In recent years, federal and state governments have made significant changes in these programs that have reduced reimbursement rates. In addition, insurance companies and managed care organizations seek to control costs by requiring that healthcare providers, such as hospitals, discount their services in exchange for exclusive or preferred participation in their benefit plans. Future federal and state legislation or evolving commercial reimbursement trends may further reduce, or change conditions for, our clients' reimbursement. Limitations on reimbursement could reduce our clients' cash flows, thereby hampering their ability to pay us. If our insurance costs increase significantly, these incremental costs could negatively affect our financial results. The costs related to obtaining and maintaining workers' compensation insurance, medical malpractice insurance, professional and general liability insurance and health insurance for our contract professionals have been increasing. If the cost of carrying this insurance continues to increase significantly, this may reduce our gross and operating margins and financial results. Healthcare reform could negatively impact our business opportunities, revenues and gross and operating margins. The U.S. and state governments have undertaken efforts to control increasing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and drug companies. In the recent past, the U.S. Congress has considered several comprehensive healthcare reform proposals. The proposals were generally intended to expand healthcare coverage for the uninsured and reduce the growth of total healthcare expenditures. While the U.S. Congress did not adopt any comprehensive reform proposals, members of Congress may raise similar proposals in the future. If any of these proposals are approved, hospitals and other healthcare facilities may 21 react by spending less on healthcare staffing, including nurses and physicians. If this were to occur, we would have fewer business opportunities, which could seriously harm our business. Furthermore, third-party payors, such as health maintenance organizations, increasingly challenge the prices charged for medical care. Failure by hospitals and other healthcare facilities to obtain full reimbursement from those third-party payors could reduce the demand or the price paid for our staffing services. We operate in a regulated industry and changes in regulations or violations of regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions that could reduce our revenues and profitability. Our organization is subject to extensive and complex federal and state laws and regulations including but not limited to: professional licensure, payroll tax regulations, conduct of operations, payment for services and payment for referrals. If we fail to comply with the laws and regulations that are directly applicable to our business, we could suffer civil and/or criminal penalties or be subject to injunctions or cease and desist orders. Extensive and complex laws that apply to our hospital and healthcare facility clients, including laws related to Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs, could indirectly affect the demand or the prices paid for our services. For example, our hospital and healthcare facility clients could suffer civil and/or criminal penalties and/or be excluded from participating in Medicare, Medicaid and other healthcare programs if they fail to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to their businesses. In addition, our hospital and healthcare facility clients could receive reduced reimbursements or be excluded from coverage because of a change in the rates or conditions set by federal or state governments. In turn, violations of or changes to these laws and regulations that adversely affect our hospital and healthcare facility clients could also adversely affect the prices that these clients are willing or able to pay for our services. The trading price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations, which could make it difficult for us to access the public markets for financing or use our common stock as consideration in a strategic transaction. In 2007, the trading price of our common stock experienced significant fluctuations, from a high of $13.78 to a low of $5.81. The closing price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market was $5.72 on March 10, 2008. Our common stock may continue to fluctuate widely as a result of a large number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: •period to period fluctuations in our financial results or those of our competitors; •failure to meet previously announced guidance or analysts' expectations of our quarterly results; •announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; •commencement of, or involvement in, litigation; •any major change in our board or management; •changes in government regulations, including those related to Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement policies; •recommendations by securities analysts or changes in earnings estimates; •announcements about our earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations; •the volume of shares of common stock available for public sale; 22 •announcements by our competitors of their earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations; •sales of stock by us or by our shareholders; •short sales, hedging and other derivative transactions in shares of our common stock; and •general economic conditions, slow or negative growth of unrelated markets and other external factors. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many companies involved in the temporary staffing industry. As a result of these fluctuations, we may encounter difficulty should we determine to access the public markets for financing or use our common stock as consideration in a strategic transaction. Future sales of our common stock and the future exercise of options may cause the market price of our common stock to decline and may result in substantial dilution. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our common stock, or the availability of our common stock for sale will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market by management or us, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and may make it more difficult for you to sell your common stock at a time and price which you may deem appropriate. We have adopted anti-takeover measures that could prevent a change in our control. In June 2003, we adopted a shareholder rights plan that has certain anti-takeover effects and will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us in a manner or on terms that have not been approved by our board of directors. This plan could delay or impede the removal of incumbent directors and could make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us, even if such events could be beneficial, in the short term, to the interests of our shareholders. In addition, such provisions could limit the price that some investors might be wiling to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that limit liability and provide for indemnification of our directors and officers, and provide that our stockholders can take action only at a duly called annual meeting of stockholders. These provisions and others also may have the affect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying changes in control or management. Provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent a change in control that our stockholders consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: •Our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors. •Our stockholders may not act by written consent. In addition, a holder or holders controlling a majority of our capital stock would not be able to take certain actions without holding a stockholder's meeting, and only stockholders owning at least 50 percent of our entire voting stock must request in writing in order to call a special meeting of stockholders (which is in 23 addition to the authority held by our board of directors to call a special stockholder meetings). •Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. •Our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, up to 1,000,000 shares of undesignated or "blank check" preferred stock. The ability to issue undesignated or "blank check" preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under these provisions, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any large stockholders who hold 15 percent or more of our outstanding voting capital stock in a merger or business combination unless the holder has held the stock for 3 years, the board of directors has expressly approved the merger or business transaction or at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting capital stock not owned by such large stockholder approve the merger or the transaction. These provisions of Delaware law may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control, and may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over its market price. In addition, our board of directors could rely on these provisions of Delaware law to discourage, prevent or delay an acquisition of us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 