D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to the Bank’s Business Bladex faces liquidity risk, and its failure to adequately manage this risk could result in a liquidity shortage, which could adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Bladex, like all financial institutions, faces liquidity risk, or the risk of not being able to maintain adequate cash flow to repay its deposits and borrowings and fund its credit portfolio on a timely basis. Failure to adequately manage its liquidity risk could produce a cash shortage as a result of which the Bank would not be able to repay its obligations as they become due. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 24% of the Bank’s funding represents short-term borrowings from international banks, the majority of which are European, North American and Asian institutions, which compete with the Bank in its credit extension activity and represent a source of business for the Bank. If these international banks cease to provide funding to the Bank, the Bank would have to seek funding from other sources, which may not be available, or if available, may be at a higher cost. Financial turmoil in the international markets could negatively impact liquidity in the financial markets, reducing the Bank’s access to credit or increasing its cost of funding, which could lead to tighter lending standards. An example of this situation is the liquidity constraint experienced in the second half of 2007 in the international financial markets, which intensified during the third quarter of 2008, driven first by the subprime crisis in the United States and then followed by the credit crisis, and in the European sovereign debt crisis experienced in 2011. The reoccurrence of such unfavorable market conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s liquidity. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 52% of the Bank’s total deposits represented deposits from state-owned banks, and 35% of the Bank’s total deposits represented deposits from central banks. As a U.S. dollar-based economy, Panama does not have a central bank in the traditional sense, and there is no lender of last resort to the banking system in the country. Central Banks in Latin America and the Caribbean, or the Region, would not be obligated to act as lenders of last resort if Bladex were to face a liquidity shortage and the Bank would have to rely on commercial liquidity sources to cover the shortfall. The credit ratings of Bladex are an important factor in maintaining the Bank’s liquidity. A reduction in the Bank’s credit rating could reduce the Bank’s access to debt markets or materially increase the cost of issuing debt, trigger additional collateral or funding requirements, and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing or permitted, contractually or otherwise, to do business with or lend to the Bank. This in turn could reduce the Bank’s liquidity and negatively impact its operating results and financial position. The Bank’s allowances for credit losses could be inadequate to cover credit losses related to its loans and contingencies. The Bank determines the appropriate level of allowances for credit losses based on a process that estimates the probable loss inherent in its portfolio, which is the result of a statistical analysis supported by the Bank’s historical portfolio performance, external sources, and the judgment of the Bank’s Management. The latter reflects assumptions and estimates made in the context of changing political and economic conditions in the Region. The Bank’s allowances could be inadequate to cover losses in its commercial portfolio due to exposure concentration or deterioration in certain sectors or countries, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 8 The Bank’s businesses are subject to market risk. Market risk generally represents the risk that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. Market risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with many of the Bank’s operations and activities, including loans, deposits, investment and trading securities, short-term borrowings, long-term debt, derivatives and trading positions. Among many other market conditions that may shift from time to time are fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates, changes in the implied volatility of interest rates and changes in securities prices, due to changes in either market perception or actual credit quality of either the relevant issuer or its country of origin. Accordingly, depending on the instruments or activities impacted, market risks can have wide ranging, complex adverse effects on the Bank’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and business. See Item 11, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.” The Bank faces interest rate risk that is caused by the mismatch in maturities of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. If not properly managed, this mismatch can reduce net interest income as interest rates fluctuate. As a bank, Bladex faces interest rate risk because interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice at a different pace than interest-earning assets. Bladex’s exposure to instruments whose values vary with the level or volatility of interest rates contributes to its interest rate risk. Failure to adequately manage eventual mismatches may reduce the Bank’s net interest income during periods of fluctuating interest rates. The Bank’s credit portfolio may decrease or may not continue to grow at the present or a similar rate. Additionally, growth in the Bank’s credit portfolio may expose the Bank to an increase in allowance for loan losses. It is difficult to predict that the Bank’s credit portfolio, including the Bank’s foreign trade portfolio, will continue to grow in the future at historical rates. A reversal in the growth rate of the Region’s economy and trade volumes could adversely affect the growth rate of the Bank’s credit portfolio. Additionally, the future expansion of Bladex’s credit portfolio may expose the Bank to higher levels of potential or actual losses and require an increase in credit risk reserves, which could negatively impact the Bank’s operating results and financial position. Increased competition and banking industry consolidation could limit the Bank’s ability to grow and may adversely affect results of operations. Most of the competition the Bank faces in the trade finance business comes from domestic and international banks, the majority of which are European and North American institutions. Many of these banks have substantially greater resources than the Bank and enjoy access to less expensive funding than the Bank does. It is difficult to predict how increased competition will affect the Bank’s growth prospects and results of operations. Over time, there has been substantial consolidation among companies in the financial services industry, and this trend continued accelerating in 2010 and 2011 as the credit crisis led to numerous mergers and asset acquisitions among industry participants and in certain cases reorganization, restructuring, or even bankruptcy. Merger activity in the financial services industry has produced companies that are capable of offering a wide array of financial products and services at competitive prices. In addition, whenever economic conditions and risk perception improve in the Region, competition from commercial banks, the securities markets and other new participants generally increases. 9 Globalization of the capital markets and financial services industries exposes the Bank to further competition. To the extent the Bank expands into new business areas and new geographic regions, the Bank may face competitors with more experience and more established relationships with clients, regulators and industry participants in the relevant market, which could adversely affect the Bank’s ability to compete. The Bank’s ability to grow its business and therefore, its earnings, is affected by these competitive pressures. Operational problems or errors can have a material adverse impact on the Bank’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Bladex, like all financial institutions, is exposed to operational risks, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, failure to obtain proper internal authorizations, failure to properly document transactions, equipment failures, and errors by employees, and any failure, interruption or breach in the security or operation of the Bank’s information technology systems could result in interruptions in such activities. Operational problems or errors may occur, and their occurrence may have a material adverse impact on the Bank’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any delays or failure to implement business initiatives that the Bank may undertake could prevent the Bank from realizing the anticipated revenues and benefits of the initiatives. Part of the Bank’s strategy is to diversify income sources through business initiatives, including targeting new clients and developing new products and services. These initiatives may not be fully implemented within the time frame the Bank expects, or at all. In addition, even if such initiatives are fully implemented, they may not generate revenues as expected. Any delays in implementing these business initiatives could prevent the Bank from realizing the anticipated benefits of the initiatives, which could adversely affect the Bank’s business, results of operations and growth prospects. Any failure to remain in compliance with applicable banking laws or other applicable regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Bank operates could harm its reputation and/or cause it to become subject to fines, sanctions or legal enforcement, which could have an adverse effect on the Bank’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Bladex has adopted various policies and procedures to ensure compliance with applicable laws, including internal controls and “know-your-customer” procedures aimed at preventing money laundering and terrorism financing; however, participation of multiple parties in any given trade finance transaction can make the process of due diligence difficult. Further, because trade finance can be more document-based than other banking activities, it is susceptible to documentary fraud, which can be linked to money laundering, terrorism financing, illicit activities and/or the circumvention of sanctions or other restrictions (such as export prohibitions, licensing requirements, or other trade controls). While the Bank is alert to high-risk transactions, it is also aware that efforts, such as forgery, double invoicing, partial shipments of goods and use of fictitious goods, may be used to evade applicable laws and regulations. If the Bank’s policies and procedures are ineffective in preventing third parties from using it as a conduit for money laundering or terrorism financing without its knowledge, the Bank’s reputation could suffer and/or it could become subject to fines, sanctions or legal action (including being added to any “blacklists” that would prohibit certain parties from engaging in transactions with the Bank), which could have an adverse effect on the Bank’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, amendments to applicable laws and regulations in Panama and other countries in which the Bank operates could impose additional compliance burdens on the Bank. Recent legislation regarding the financial services industry may subject the Bank to significant and extensive regulation, which may have an impact on the Bank’s operations. 10 On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or Dodd-Frank Act, was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act is intended primarily to overhaul the financial regulatory framework in the United States following the global financial crisis and may impact substantially all financial institutions including the Bank. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, imposes higher prudential standards, including more stringent risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity and risk-management requirements, establishes a Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, establishes a systemic risk regulator, consolidates certain federal bank regulators, imposes additional requirements related to corporate governance and executive compensation and requires various U.S. federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, for which they are given broad discretion. While we are closely monitoring this rulemaking process, the exact impact of new rules on our business remains uncertain. At this time, we cannot predict the impact or possible additional costs to us, if any, related to the implementation of, or compliance with, the potential future requirements under the Doff-Frank act. While many of the provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act will affect institutions that engage in activities in which the Bank does not engage, it will likely increase the Bank’s regulatory compliance burden. Risk Relating to the Region The Bank’s credit portfolio is concentrated in the Region. The Bank also faces borrower concentration. Adverse economic changes in the Region or in the condition of the Bank’s largest borrowers could adversely affect the Bank’s growth, asset quality, prospects, profitability, financial condition and financial results. The Bank’s credit activities are concentrated in the Region, which is a reflection of the Bank’s mission and strategy. Historically, economies of countries in the Region have occasionally experienced significant volatility characterized, in some cases, by political uncertainty, slow growth or recessions, declining investments, government and private sector debt defaults and restructurings, and significant inflation and/or currency devaluation. Global economic changes, including fluctuations in oil prices, commodities prices, U.S. dollar interest rates and the U.S. dollar exchange rate, and slower economic growth in industrialized countries, could have a significant adverse effect on the economic condition of countries in the Region, including Panama and the other countries where the Bank operates. In turn, adverse changes affecting the economies of countries in the Region could have a significant adverse impact on the quality of the Bank’s credit portfolio, including increased loan loss provisions, debt restructuring, and loan losses. As a result, this could also have an adverse impact on the Bank’s asset growth, asset quality, prospects, profitability and financial condition. The Bank’s credit activities are concentrated in a number of countries. Adverse changes affecting the economies in one or more of those countries could have an adverse impact on the Bank’s credit portfolio and, as a result, its financial condition, growth, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 70% of the Bank’s credit portfolio was outstanding to borrowers in the following five countries: Brazil ($1,984 million, or 34%), Colombia ($839 million, or 14%), Mexico ($498 million, or 9%), Argentina ($390 million, or 7%), and Chile ($389 million, or 7%). In addition, as of December 31, 2011, of the Bank’s total credit portfolio balances, 10% were to five borrowers in Brazil, 7% were to five borrowers in Colombia, 4% were to five borrowers in Mexico, 6% were to five borrowers in Argentina, and 6% were to five borrowers in Chile. A significant deterioration of the financial or economic condition of any of these countries or borrowers could have an adverse impact on the Bank’s credit portfolio, requiring the Bank to create additional allowances for credit losses, or suffer credit losses with the effect being accentuated because of this concentration. Local country foreign exchange controls or currency devaluation may harm the Bank’s borrowers’ ability to pay U.S. dollar-denominated obligations. The Bank makes mostly U.S. dollar-denominated loans and investments. As a result, the Bank faces the risk that local country foreign exchange controls will restrict the ability of the Bank’s borrowers, even if they are exporters, to acquire dollars to repay loans on a timely basis, and/or that significant currency devaluation might occur, which could increase the cost, in local currency terms, to the Bank’s borrowers of acquiring dollars to repay loans. 11 Increased risk perception in countries in the Region where the Bank has large credit exposure could have an adverse impact on the Bank’s credit ratings, funding activities and funding costs. Increased risk perception in any country in the Region where the Bank has large exposures could trigger downgrades to the Bank’s credit ratings. A credit rating downgrade would likely increase the Bank’s funding costs, and reduce its deposit base and access to the debt capital markets. In that case, the Bank’s ability to obtain the necessary funding to carry on its financing activities in the Region at meaningful levels could be affected in an important way. 