D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to the Region The Bank’s credit portfolio is concentrated in Latin America and the Caribbean and adverse economic changes in those countries, could affect adversely the Bank’s growth, asset quality, prospects, profitability and financial condition. The Bank’s lending activities and, as a result, the credit portfolio is concentrated in Central and South America and the Caribbean (the “Region”). Historically, economies of countries in the Region have sometimes experienced significant volatility characterized, in some cases, by political uncertainty, slow growth or recession, declining investments, government and private sector debt default and restructurings, significant inflation and/or devaluation. Global economic changes, including oil prices, the U.S. dollar interest rates and exchange rate, and slower economic growth in developed countries, could have a significant adverse effect on the economic condition of countries in the Region. In turn, adverse changes affecting the economies of countries in the Region could have a significant adverse impact on the Bank’s credit portfolio, including increased loan loss provisions, debt restructurings, and loan losses and, as a result, on the Bank’s growth, asset quality, prospects, profitability and financial condition. 6 Bladex’s lending activities are concentrated in a relatively small number of countries and clients, exacerbating the possible effect that adverse economic changes in such countries could have on the Bank. The Bank’s lending activities are concentrated in a relatively small number of countries, which could have an adverse impact on the Bank’s credit portfolio and, as a result, its financial condition, growth, prospects, cash flows and results of operations if one or more of those countries encounter economic difficulties. At December 31, 2005, approximately 62% of the Bank’s credit portfolio was outstanding to borrowers in the following four countries: Brazil ($1,453 million, or 40%); Chile ($315 million, or 9%); Colombia ($261 million, or 7%); and Peru ($230 million, or 6%). In addition, at December 31, 2005, 20% of the Bank’s total credits were to five borrowers in Brazil and 7% of total credits were to two borrowers in Chile. A significant deterioration of the financial condition of any of these borrowers could require the Bank to create additional allowances for credit losses, or suffer further credit losses with the effect being accentuated because of this concentration. Local country foreign exchange controls or currency devaluation may harm the Bank’s borrowers’ ability to pay U.S. dollar-denominated obligations. The Bank makes mostly U.S. dollar-denominated loans. As a result, the Bank faces the risk that local country foreign exchange controls will restrict the ability of the Bank’s borrowers, even if they are exporters, to acquire dollars to repay loans on a timely basis, and/or that significant currency devaluation will occur, which could increase the cost, in local currency terms, to the Bank’s borrowers of acquiring dollars to repay loans. The performance of financial markets, including fluctuations in interest rates, may cause changes in the value of the Bank’s investment securities portfolio and in the amount of revenues generated from these assets. Increased risk perception in countries in the Region where the Bank has large credit exposure could affect adversely the Bank’s credit ratings, funding activities and funding costs. As a result of the Argentine crisis in 2002 the major credit rating agencies downgraded the Bank’s credit ratings due to its large Argentine credit exposure and the increasing risk of default among Argentine borrowers. The downgrades also reflected the Bank’s large exposure in Brazil, where political and economic uncertainty created concerns at that time. One of the Bank’s funding sources for short-term loans is interbank deposits received principally from central banks in the Region. During 2002, these central banks withdrew a substantial portion of their deposits from the Bank, in large part because of the deterioration in the Bank’s financial condition and the credit ratings downgrades. In addition, the dramatic increase in the risk perception of Latin America resulted in a significant decline in the availability of credit lines to the Region. The Bank maintained an adequate liquidity position throughout this period. The occurrence of similar events in any countries in the Region where the Bank has large exposures could trigger downgrades to the Bank’s credit ratings. A credit rating downgrade would likely increase the Bank’s funding costs, and reduce its deposit base and access to the debt capital markets. In that case, the Bank’s ability to obtain the necessary funding to carry on trade finance activities in Latin America at meaningful levels could be severely hampered. Risks Relating to the Bank’s Business The Bank’s allowances for credit losses could prove inadequate to cover credit losses related to its loans and contingencies. Determining the appropriate level of allowances for credit losses necessarily requires the Bank’s Board’s and management’s judgment, including assumptions and estimates made in the context of changing political and economic conditions in the Region. Consequently, the Bank’s allowances could be inadequate to cover losses in its credit portfolio, which in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s financial condition, results of operations, and business. 7 The Bank’s businesses are subject to market risk. Market risk generally represents the risk that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. Market risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with many of the Bank’s operations and activities, including loans, deposits, investment securities, short-term borrowings, long-term debt and derivatives. As many other market conditions that may shift from time to time, thereby exposing the Bank to market risk, are fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates, changes in the implied volatility of interest rates, changes in foreign exchange rates and changes in securities prices, due to changes in either market perception or actual credit quality of either the issuer or its country of origin. Accordingly, depending on the instruments or activities impacted, market risks can have wide ranging, complex adverse affects on the Bank’s financial condition, results of operations, and business. Bladex faces liquidity risk, and its failure to adequately manage this risk could produce a liquidity shortage, which could affect adversely its financial condition and results of operations. Bladex faces liquidity risk, or the risk of not being able to maintain adequate cash flow to repay its deposits and borrowings required to fund its credit portfolio on a timely basis. Failure to adequately manage its liquidity risk could produce a liquidity shortage in which the Bank would not be able to repay these obligations as they become due. As a U.S. dollar based economy, Panama does not have a central bank in the traditional sense, and there is no lender of last resort to the banking system in Panama. In addition, the central banks of other Latin American countries would not be obligated to act as lenders of last resort if Bladex were to face a liquidity shortage. Accordingly, if the Bank faced a liquidity shortage, it would have to rely on commercial liquidity sources. Operational problems or errors can have a material adverse impact on the Bank’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Bladex, like all financial institutions, is exposed to operational risks, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, failure to obtain proper internal authorizations, failure to properly document transactions, equipment failures, and errors by employees. Although the Bank maintains a system of internal controls, there can be no assurance that operational problems or errors will not occur, and that their occurrence will not have a material adverse impact on the Bank’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Bank’s credit portfolio may not continue to grow at the same or similar rate. No assurance can be given that, in the future, the Bank’s credit portfolio, including the Bank’s foreign trade portfolio, will continue to grow at historical rates. A reversal in the rate of growth of the Region’s economy and trade volumes could adversely affect the rate of growth of the Bank’s credit portfolio. Increased competition and industry consolidation in some Latin American countries could increase competition and limit the Bank’s ability to grow in those markets and reduce its profitability, which may adversely affect results of operations. Most of the competition the Bank faces in the trade finance area comes from international banks, mostly European and North American, which provide similar financing services to those the Bank provides within the markets the Bank serves. These international banks have substantially greater resources and access to less expensive funding than the Bank does, which puts the Bank at a competitive disadvantage. There can be no assurance that increased competition will not affect adversely the Bank’s growth prospects and results of operations. 8 Although some of these international banks compete directly with the Bank, in many cases they also provide funding for the Bank and represent a source of business. If these international banks ceased providing funding to the Bank, the Bank would be required to seek funding from other sources, which may not be available, or if available, may only be at higher interest costs. Changes in the business and in the markets of the Region could potentially place the Bank at a competitive disadvantage with respect to scale, resources, and its ability to develop and diversify its income sources. A substantial consolidation of the banking business in Latin America has occurred and is continuing. This has reduced the number of local banks in the Region, which historically have been the Bank’s primary customers for trade finance loans. The Bank may pursue a capital management strategy that differs from that expected by some of its stockholders or others in the market. The Board’s opinion regarding the Bank’s capital adequacy and needs might differ from that of some of its stockholders or other market participants. If so, the Bank’s capital management actions and the timing of such actions might not correspond with the expectations of the Bank’s stockholders or other market participants. The Bank’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) may choose to pursue any of several capital management options, or a combination of strategies, including growth, investments, declaring dividends to stockholders, or repurchasing shares under a stock repurchase program. The Board is not required to declare dividends (or increase dividends) or effect stock repurchases pursuant to its stock repurchase program, and could use the capital for other purposes, which may not coincide with the preferences of some of the Bank’s stockholders. To the extent that the capital management strategy elected by the Bank’s Board differs from expectations of investors or other market participants, it could result in negative market perceptions of the Bank. Dissatisfaction of some of the Bank’s stockholders or a negative market perception of the Bank with regard to the use of capital could adversely affect the Bank’s stock price. Any delays or failure to implement business initiatives that the Bank may undertake could prevent the Bank from realizing the anticipated revenues and benefits of the initiatives, divert the attention of its management, cause additional expenses, or cause other negative repercussions for the Bank. Part of the Bank’s strategy is to diversify income sources through business initiatives that, in some cases, involve partnerships or strategic alliances with specialists, expanding into new markets, targeting new clients and developing new products and services. These initiatives may not be fully implemented within the time frame the Bank expects, or at all. In addition, even if such initiatives are fully implemented, they may not generate revenues as expected. Any delays in securing necessary regulatory approvals, in reaching agreement with strategic partners, or otherwise implementing the Bank’s strategic initiatives, could divert the attention of the Bank’s management, result in additional expense, prevent the Bank from pursuing other initiatives or ultimately, prevent the Bank from realizing the anticipated benefits of the initiatives, which could adversely affect the Bank’s business, results of operations and financial condition. 