Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks including, but not limited to, the following:U.S. and global market and economic developments could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the past few years, global macroeconomic conditions and trends have been uncertain and difficult to predict, particularly within the United States and Europe, which have experienced a period of recession and slow growth. Demand for our staffing services is significantly affected by the general level of economic activity and employment in the United States, Europe and the other countries in which we operate. As economic activity slows, companies may defer projects for which they utilize our services or reduce their use of temporary employees before laying off full-time employees. We may also experience more competitive pricing pressure during periods of economic downturn. Approximately 95 percent of our revenue is generated by our business operations in the United States. Any significant economic downturn in the United States or other countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Demand for the contract staffing services that we provide is significantly affected by global market and economic conditions. As economic activity slows, particularly any negative effect on healthcare, research and development and quality control and capital spending, many clients or potential clients reduce their use of and reliance upon contract professionals. During periods of reduced economic activity, we may also be subject to increased competition for market share and pricing pressure. As a result, a recession or periods of reduced economic activity could harm our business and results of operations.If we are not able to remain competitive in obtaining and retaining temporary staffing clients, our future growth will suffer. Agreements may be terminated by clients and contract professionals at will and the termination of a significant number of such agreements would adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.The contract staffing industry is highly competitive and fragmented with limited barriers to entry. We compete in national, regional and local markets with full-service agencies, and in regional and local markets with specialized contract staffing agencies. The success of our business depends upon our ability to continually secure new orders from clients and to fill those orders with our contract professionals. Our agreements do not provide for exclusive use of our services, and clients are free to place orders with our competitors. Each contract professional’s employment or independent contractor’s relationship with us is terminable at will. If clients terminate a significant number of our staffing agreements or assignments and we are unable to generate new contract staffing orders to replace lost revenues, or a significant number of our contract professionals terminate their employment with us and we are unable to find suitable replacements, the growth of our business could be adversely affected and our revenues and results of operations could be harmed. As a result, it is imperative to our business that we maintain positive relationships with our clients and contract professionals. To the extent that competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices or increasing marketing expenditures, we could lose revenues and our margins could decline, which could seriously harm our operating results and cause the trading price of our stock to decline. As we expand into new geographic markets, our success will depend in part on our ability to gain market share from competitors. We expect competition for clients to increase in the future, and the success and growth of our business depends on our ability to remain competitive. In addition, we continue to participate in a number of third party contracts as a subcontractor, and that requires us to participate in vendor management contracts, which may subject us to greater risks or lower margins.If the Company is unable to sustain its rate of growth, our growth prospects and future results are likely to be adversely affected.11Over the past several years, the Company has undergone revenue and earnings growth. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to continue this pace of growth in the future. Such growth also could be negatively affected by many factors, including future technology industry conditions or macroeconomic events. If the Company's growth rate slows, or if it fails to grow at the pace anticipated, future growth prospects and results are likely to be adversely affected.If we are unable to attract and retain qualified contract professionals, our business could be negatively impacted. Our business is substantially dependent upon our ability to attract and retain contract professionals who possess the skills, experience, and licenses, as required, to meet the specified requirements of our clients. We compete for such contract professionals with other temporary staffing companies and with our clients and potential clients. There can be no assurance that qualified professionals will be available to us in adequate numbers to staff our operating segments. Moreover, our contract professionals are often hired to become regular employees of our clients. Attracting and retaining contract professionals depends on several factors, including our ability to provide contract professionals with desirable assignments and competitive wages and benefits. The cost of attracting and retaining contract professionals in the future may be higher than we anticipate if there is an increase in competitive wages and benefits (including costs associated with recent federal healthcare reform legislation) and, as a result, if we are unable to pass these costs on to our clients, our likelihood of achieving or maintaining profitability could decline. In periods of high unemployment, contract professionals frequently opt for full-time employment directly with clients and, due to a large pool of available candidates, clients are able to directly hire and recruit qualified candidates without the involvement of staffing agencies. If we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of contract professionals to meet client demand, we may be required to forgo staffing and revenue opportunities, which may hurt the growth of our business. The loss of key members of our senior management team could adversely affect the execution of our business strategy and our financial results.We believe that the successful execution of our business strategy and our ability to build upon the significant recent investments in our business and acquisitions of new businesses depends on the continued employment of key members of our senior management team. If any members of our senior management team become unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, our financial results and our business could be materially adversely affected.Reclassification of our independent contractors by tax or regulatory authorities could materially and adversely affect our business model and could require us to pay significant retroactive wages, taxes and penalties. We consider various individuals who provide services in connection with our business, including our locum tenens physicians, as independent contractors rather than employees. As such, we do not withhold or pay income or other employment related taxes, or provide workers’ compensation insurance for them. We believe that our classification of those individuals as independent contractors is consistent with general industry standard and applicable guidelines from the U.S. Department of Labor and the Internal Revenue Service, but can nonetheless be challenged by the contractors themselves or by relevant taxing authorities. If federal or state taxing authorities determine that individuals engaged as independent contractors are employees, our business model would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, many states have laws that prohibit non-physician owned companies from employing physicians. If our independent contractor physicians are classified as employees, we could be found in violation of such state laws, which could subject us to liability in those states and thereby negatively impact our profitability. Although we believe we qualify for the safe harbor under the provisions of Section 530 of the Revenue Act of 1978, Pub. L. No. 95−600, and any similar applicable state laws, we could incur significant liability for past wages, taxes, penalties and other employment benefits if we could not so qualify. We are in the business of providing employees to clients, and significant legal actions and claims could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities, result in damage to our business reputation, discontinuation of our client relationships and adversely affect our recruitment and retention efforts. We employ people internally and in the workplaces of other businesses. Our ability to control the workplace environment of our clients is limited. Further, many of these individuals have access to client information systems and confidential information. As the employer of record of our contract professionals, we incur a risk of liability to our contract professionals for various workplace events, including claims of physical injury, discrimination, harassment or failure to protect confidential personal information. Other inherent risks include possible claims of errors and omissions; intentional misconduct; release, misuse or misappropriation of client intellectual property, employment of illegal aliens, criminal activity, torts, or other claims. In recent years, we have been subject to an increasing number of legal actions alleging malpractice, vicarious liability, intentional torts, negligent hiring, discrimination, sexual harassment, retroactive entitlement to employee benefits, violation of wage and hour requirements, and related legal theories. We may be subject to liability in such cases even if the contribution to the alleged injury was minimal. Many of these actions involve large claims and significant defense costs. In most instances, we are required to indemnify clients against some or all of these risks. A failure of any of our employees internally or contract professionals in the workplace to observe our policies and guidelines intended to reduce these risks could result in negative publicity, injunctive relief, criminal investigations and/or charges, payment of monetary damages or fines, or other material adverse effects on our business. Claims raised by clients stemming from the improper actions of our contract professionals, even if without merit, could cause us to incur significant expense associated with the costs or damages related to such claims. Further, such claims by clients could damage our business reputation and result in the discontinuation of client relationships. Any associated negative publicity could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain qualified contract professionals in the future.12To protect ourselves from the cost of these types of claims, we maintain workers’ compensation, medical malpractice, errors and omissions, employment practices and general liability insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations. Our coverage includes a retention amount, and our insurance coverage may not cover all claims against us or continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost. If we are unable to maintain adequate insurance coverage, we may be exposed to substantial liabilities. In this regard, we face various employment-related risks not covered by insurance, such as wage and hour laws and employment tax responsibility. U.S. Courts in recent years have been receiving large numbers of wage and hour class action claims alleging misclassification of overtime eligible workers and/or failure to pay overtime-eligible workers for all hours worked. Future changes in reimbursement trends could hamper our Physician or Healthcare IT segments clients’ ability to pay us, which would harm our financial results.Many of our clients are reimbursed under the federal Medicare program and state Medicaid programs for the services they provide. In recent years, federal and state governments have made significant changes in these programs that have reduced reimbursement rates. In addition, insurance companies and managed care organizations seek to control costs by requiring that healthcare providers, such as hospitals, discount their services in exchange for exclusive or preferred participation in their benefit plans. Future federal and state legislation or evolving commercial reimbursement trends may further reduce, or change conditions for, our clients’ reimbursement. Limitations on reimbursement could reduce our clients’ cash flows, thereby hampering their ability to pay us.We operate in a regulated industry and changes in regulations or violations of regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions that could reduce our revenues and profitability. Our organization is subject to extensive and complex federal and state laws and regulations including but not limited to laws and regulations related to professional licensure, labor and employment, payroll tax, conduct of operations, payment for services and payment for referrals. If we fail to comply with the laws and regulations that are directly applicable to our business, we could suffer civil and/or criminal penalties or be subject to injunctions or cease and desist orders. Extensive and complex laws that apply to our hospital and healthcare facility clients, including laws related to Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs, could indirectly affect the demand or the prices paid for our services. For example, our hospital and healthcare facility clients could suffer civil and/or criminal penalties and/or be excluded from participating in Medicare, Medicaid and other healthcare programs if they fail to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to their businesses. In addition, our hospital and healthcare facility clients could receive reduced reimbursements or be excluded from coverage because of a change in the rates or conditions set by federal or state governments. In turn, violations of or changes to these laws and regulations that adversely affect our hospital and healthcare facility clients could also adversely affect the prices that these clients are willing or able to pay for our services.U.S. healthcare legislation could negatively impact our results of operations by increasing the cost of providing temporary staffing services. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the “Acts”) were signed into U.S. law. The Acts represent comprehensive healthcare reform legislation that, in addition to other provisions, will require that we provide healthcare coverage to our temporary employees in the United States or incur penalties. While the costs associated with the law may have less impact on us than our competitors due to the level and scope of benefits we already offer, and while our intent is to bill additional costs to our customers, there can be no assurance that we will be able to increase client bill rates in a sufficient amount to cover the increased costs. This may reduce our gross and operating margins and negatively impact our financial results. Additionally, since significant provisions of the Acts did not become effective until 2014, and the requirement that we provide healthcare coverage or incur penalties has been delayed until 2015, any future changes to the Acts or their implementation, through regulations or otherwise, could significantly impact any estimates we develop regarding increased costs. As a result of this uncertainty, we are unable at this time to estimate the net impact of the Acts, although we believe the net financial impact on our results of operations could be significant.We may be subject to increases in payroll-related costs and unemployment insurance taxes, resulting in lower margins. We currently pay federal, state and local payroll costs and taxes for our corporate employees and contract professional employees. If we are subject to significant increases in costs associated with payroll and unemployment taxes, we may not be able to increase client bill rates to cover the additional expense and this may reduce our gross and operating margins and affect our financial results.13We may not successfully make or integrate acquisitions, which could harm our business and growth. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to opportunistically pursue selected acquisitions. We compete with other companies in the professional staffing and consulting industries for acquisition opportunities, and we cannot assure that we will be able to affect future acquisitions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. To the extent we enter into acquisition transactions in the future, we may experience:•delays in realizing or a failure to realize the benefits, cost savings and synergies that we anticipate; •difficulties or higher-than-anticipated costs associated with integrating any acquired companies into our businesses; •attrition of key personnel from acquired businesses; •diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; •inability to maintain the business relationships and reputation of the acquired companies; •difficulties in integrating the acquired companies into our information systems, controls, policies and procedures; •additional risks relating to the businesses or industry of the acquired companies that are different from ours; •unexpected liabilities, costs or charges; •unforeseen operating difficulties that require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing operations; and •impairment related to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets acquired.To undertake more transactions, additional financing may be necessary and, if used, would result in additional debt, dilution of outstanding equity, or both. We may face unexpected contingent liabilities arising from these or future acquisitions that could harm our business.We have indemnification obligations related to the sales of two of our business units, which could negatively impact our financial results.As part of our five-year strategic plan, in 2013 we divested of two of our business units, our Nurse Travel business and our Allied Healthcare business. The Company has ongoing indemnification obligations with respect to the sold businesses, and merger and sale activity in general correlates with higher litigation risk. We have not received any material claims for indemnification under the applicable sale agreements governing the dispositions, nor have we received any litigation claims related to the sale activities, however if any significant claims are made and become due and payable, our financial results could be negatively impacted.Impairment of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets could materially impact future results of operations. We have approximately $574.9 million in goodwill and $288.5 million in identifiable intangible assets at December 31, 2013. As part of the testing of goodwill impairment, Accounting Standards Codification Topic 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other, requires the Company to estimate the fair value of its reporting units on at least an annual basis and more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. The impairment tests consist of comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount including goodwill. We determine the fair value of each reporting unit based upon a weighted average calculation using the fair value derived from a discounted cash flow analysis and a market approach analysis. Discounted cash flows are developed for each reporting unit based on assumptions including revenue growth expectations, gross margins, operating expense projections, working capital, capital expense requirements and tax rates. The multi-year financial forecasts for each reporting unit used in the cash flow models considered several key business drivers such as new product lines, historical performance and industry and economic trends, among other considerations. The market approach considers multiples of financial metrics, primarily EBITDA, based on trading multiples of a group of guideline public companies in the staffing industry, which multiples are then applied to the corresponding financial metrics of our reporting units to derive an indication of fair value. The similar transaction method considers multiples of financial metrics, primarily EBITDA, based on trading multiples of actual transactions that have occurred, which multiples are then applied to the corresponding financial metrics of our reporting units to derive an indication of fair value.There are inherent uncertainties related to the factors, and management's judgment in applying these factors. At October 31, 2013, we performed our annual goodwill impairment test and concluded that there was no impairment. Future declines in our market capitalization or any other impairment indicators subsequent to the balance sheet date could be an early indication that remaining goodwill may become impaired in the future. Although a future impairment of goodwill and indefinite lived identifiable intangible assets would not affect our cash flow, it would negatively impact our operating results.Intangible assets with indefinite lives consist of trademarks. We test trademarks for impairment on an annual basis, on October 31. In order to test the trademarks for impairment, we determine the fair value of the trademarks and compare such amount to its carrying value. We 14determine the fair value of the trademarks using a projected discounted cash flow analysis based on the relief-from-royalty approach. The principal factors used in the discounted cash flow analysis requiring judgment are projected net sales, discount rate, royalty rate and terminal value assumption. The royalty rate used in the analysis is based on transactions that have occurred in our industry. Intangible assets having finite lives are amortized over their useful lives and are tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Customer relations are amortized using an accelerated method. Contractor relations and non-compete agreements are amortized using the straight-line method. We did not have any impairment of indefinite lived or finite lived intangibles in 2013.We are subject to business risks associated with international operations, which could make our international operations significantly more costly. During 2013, we had international sales in all countries in the European Union, Canada, New Zealand and Australia. In 2013, our international operations comprised approximately 5.0 percent of total sales compared with 6.3 percent and 11.4 percent in 2012 and 2011, respectively. We have limited experience in marketing, selling and supporting our services outside of North America. Operations in certain markets are subject to risks inherent in international business activities, including:•fluctuations in currency exchange rates; •complicated work permit requirements; •varying economic and political conditions; •seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe and Asia; •overlapping or differing tax structures; •difficulties collecting accounts receivable; and •regulations concerning pay rates, benefits, vacation, union membership, redundancy payments and the termination of employment.Our inability to effectively manage our international operations could result in increased costs and adversely affect our results of operations.An information technology system failure may adversely affect our business. The operation of our business is dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems. In 2013, we continued to upgrade our information technology systems, including our PeopleSoft TM and Recruitmax TM technology enterprise-wide information systems used in daily operations to identify and match staffing resources and client assignments, track regulatory credentialing, manage scheduling, and perform billing and accounts receivable functions. We also rely on our information systems in managing our accounting and financial reporting. If the systems fail or are otherwise unable to function in a manner that properly supports our business operations, or if these systems require significant costs to repair, maintain or further develop, we could experience business interruptions or delays that could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. Our information systems are vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, physical or software break-ins, viruses, security breaches and similar events. Our network infrastructure is currently located at our facility in Salt Lake City, Utah. As a result, any system failure or service outage at this primary facility could result in a loss of service for the duration of the failure of the outage. Our location in Southern California is susceptible to earthquakes and has experienced power shortages and outages in the past, which could result in system failures or outages. If our information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, these functions would have to be accomplished manually, which could impact our ability to respond to business opportunities quickly, to pay our staff in a timely fashion and to bill for services efficiently.Failure of internal controls may leave us susceptible to errors and fraud. Our management, including our CEO and CFO, does not expect that our disclosure controls and internal controls will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Furthermore, because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, would be detected.Our collection, use and retention of personal information and personal health information create risks that may harm our business. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and retain personal information of our employees and contract professionals and their dependants including, without limitation, full names, social security numbers, addresses, birth dates, and payroll-related information. We also have access to, receive and use personal health information in the ordinary course of our Health Information Management businesses. We use commercially available information security technologies to protect such information in digital format. We also use security and business controls to limit access to such information. However, employees or third parties may be able to circumvent these measures and acquire or misuse such information, resulting in breaches of privacy, and errors in the storage, use or transmission of such information may result in 15breaches of privacy. Privacy breaches may require notification and other remedies, which can be costly, and which may have other serious adverse consequences for our business, including regulatory penalties and fines, claims for breach of contract, claims for damages, adverse publicity, reduced demand for our services by clients and/or flex employment candidates, harm to our reputation, and regulatory oversight by state or federal agencies. The possession and use of personal information and data in conducting our business subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens. We may be required to incur significant expenses to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards or contractual obligations.As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, we had $399.8 million and $426.6 million of total debt, respectively, which could adversely affect our operating flexibility, and the restrictive covenants under our debt instruments could trigger prepayment obligations or additional costs.Our level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by our credit agreements could have important consequences for investors, including the following: •we will have to use a portion of our cash flow from operations for debt service rather than for our operations;•we may not be able to obtain additional debt financing for future working capital, capital expenditures or other corporate purposes or may have to pay more for such financing; •some or all of the debt under our current or future revolving credit facilities may be at a variable interest rate, making us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates;•we could be less able to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, and to react to changes in market or industry conditions; and•we may be disadvantaged compared to competitors with less leverage.Our failure to comply with restrictive covenants under our credit facilities and other debt instruments could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the requirement to repay such borrowings before their due date. Some covenants are tied to our operating results and thus may be breached if we do not perform as expected. Further, the terms of our revolving credit facility permit additional borrowings, subject to certain conditions. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks we now face could intensify. We expect to obtain the money to pay our expenses and to repay borrowings under our credit facility primarily from our operations. Our ability to meet our expenses thus depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. If we do not have enough money, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets or borrow additional funds. We may not be able to take such actions on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. The lenders may require fees and expenses to be paid or other changes to terms in connection with waivers or amendments. If we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by increased costs and/or rates. The lenders may require fees and expenses to be paid or other changes to terms in connection with waivers or amendments. If we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by increased costs and/or rates.16The trading price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations, which could make it difficult for us to access the public markets for financing or use our common stock as consideration in a strategic transaction. In 2013, the trading price of our common stock experienced significant fluctuations, ranging from a high of $35.71 to a low of $20.41. The closing price of our common stock on the NYSE was $29.68 on January 31, 2014. Our common stock may continue to fluctuate widely as a result of a large number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: •period to period fluctuations in our financial results or those of our competitors; •failure to meet previously announced guidance or analysts’ expectations of our quarterly results; •announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; •commencement of, or involvement in, litigation; •any major change in our board or management; •changes in government regulations, including those related to Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement policies; •recommendations by securities analysts or changes in earnings estimates; •announcements about our earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations; •the volume of shares of common stock available for public sale; •announcements by our competitors of their earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations; •sales of stock by us or by our stockholders; •short sales, hedging and other derivative transactions in shares of our common stock; and •general economic conditions, slow or negative growth of unrelated markets and other external factors.Our results of operations may vary from quarter to quarter as a result of a number of factors, including, among other things, the level of demand for our temporary staffing services, changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors, our ability to control costs, and our ability to manage our accounts receivable balances, which may make it difficult to evaluate our business and could cause instability in the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the trading prices of the common stock of many companies involved in the temporary staffing industry. As a result of these fluctuations, we may encounter difficulty should we determine to access the public markets for financing or use our common stock as consideration in a strategic transaction.Cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents could adversely affect our business and disrupt operations.Cyber incidents can result from deliberate attacks or unintentional events. These incidents can include, but are not limited to, gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. The result of these incidents could include, but are not limited to, disrupted operations, misstated financial data, liability for stolen assets or information, increased cybersecurity protection costs, litigation and reputational damage adversely affecting customer or investor confidence. A significant loss or suspension of our business with the federal government or government contractors could lead to a material reduction in our revenues, cash flows and operating results.We contract with and serve the U.S. federal government and its agencies as a prime contractor. We also provide staffing services as a subcontractor to federal prime contractors. In these capacities, we must comply with complex laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of federal government contracts. These laws and regulations create compliance risk and may impose added costs on our business. If a government review, investigation or audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, harm to our reputation, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies.There is often intense competition to win federal agency contracts. Even when a contract is awarded to us, competitors may protest such awards. If we are unable to successfully compete for new business or win competitions to maintain existing business, our business could be materially adversely affected. After a government contract is awarded and funded by the federal government, we are dependent upon the ability of the relevant agency to administratively manage the contract. We can be adversely impacted by delays in the start-up of already awarded and funded projects, including delays due to shortages of acquisition and contracting personnel within the federal government agencies.17Contracts awarded pursuant to GSA Schedules with certain terms previously negotiated with the federal government constitute a significant percentage of revenues from our federal agency clients. If we were to lose one or more of these Schedules or other contracting vehicles, we could lose revenues and our operating results could be materially adversely affected. These Schedules or contracts typically have an initial term with multiple options that may be exercised by our government agency clients to extend the contract for successive periods of one or more years. We can provide no assurance that our clients will exercise these options.Some government contracts require us to maintain facility security clearances and require some of our employees to maintain individual security clearances. If our employees lose or are unable to timely obtain security clearances, or we lose a facility clearance, a government agency client may terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. In addition, a security breach by us could cause serious harm to our business, damage our reputation, and prevent us from being eligible for further work on sensitive or classified systems for federal government clients.Provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent a change in control that our stockholders consider favorable.Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following:•Our Board of Directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the Board of Directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our Board of Directors.•Our stockholders may not act by written consent. In addition, a holder or holders controlling a majority of our capital stock would not be able to take certain actions without holding a stockholder’s meeting, and only stockholders owning at least 50 percent of our entire voting stock must request in writing in order to call a special meeting of stockholders (which is in addition to the authority held by our Board of Directors to call a special stockholder meeting).•Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the Board of Directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our Company.•Our Board of Directors may issue, without stockholder approval, up to one million shares of undesignated or “blank check” preferred stock. The ability to issue undesignated or “blank check” preferred stock makes it possible for our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us.As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under these provisions, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any large stockholders who hold 15 percent or more of our outstanding voting capital stock in a merger or business combination unless the holder has held the stock for three years, the board of directors has expressly approved the merger or business transaction or at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting capital stock not owned by such large stockholder approve the merger or the transaction. These provisions of Delaware law may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control, and may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over its market price. In addition, our Board of Directors could rely on these provisions of Delaware law to discourage, prevent or delay an acquisition of us.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 