Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks including, but not limited to, the following: Global market and economic developments could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Demand for the contract staffing services that we provide is significantly affected by global market and economic conditions. As economic activity slows, particularly any negative effect on healthcare, research and development and quality control and capital spending, many clients or potential clients reduce their use of and reliance upon contract professionals. During periods of reduced economic activity, we may also be subject to increased competition for market share and pricing pressure. As a result, a recession or periods of reduced economic activity could harm our business and results of operations.Economic conditions remain uncertain. Concerns continue about the systemic impact of energy costs, geopolitical issues, low consumer confidence, high unemployment and underemployment, and the global housing and mortgage markets. As a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economies may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, as well as the liquidity and financial condition of our lenders and clients. This could impact our ability to draw on all, or a substantial portion, of our credit facilities, refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs, as well as expose us to risks in collecting our accounts receivable.If we are not able to remain competitive in obtaining and retaining temporary staffing clients, our future growth will suffer. Agreements may be terminated by clients and contract professionals at will and the termination of a significant number of such agreements would adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.The contract staffing industry is highly competitive and fragmented with limited barriers to entry. We compete in national, regional and local markets with full-service agencies, and in regional and local markets with specialized contract staffing agencies. Many of these companies have significantly greater marketing and financial resources than we do. The success of our business depends upon our ability to continually secure new orders from clients and to fill those orders with our contract professionals. Our agreements do not provide for exclusive use of our services, and clients are free to place orders with our competitors. Each contract professional’s employment or independent contractor’s relationship with us is terminable at will. If clients terminate a significant number of our staffing agreements or assignments and we are unable to generate new contract staffing orders to replace lost revenues or a significant number of our contract professionals terminate their employment with us and we are unable to find suitable replacements, the growth of our business could be adversely affected and our revenues and results of operations could be harmed. As a result, it is imperative to our business that we maintain positive relationships with our clients and contract professionals. To the extent that competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices or increasing marketing expenditures, we could lose revenues and our margins could decline, which could seriously harm our operating results and cause the trading price of our stock to decline. As we expand into new geographic markets, our success will depend in part on our ability to gain market share from competitors. We expect competition for clients to increase in the future, and the success and growth of our business depends on our ability to remain competitive.In addition, we continue to participate in an increasing number of third party contracts as a subcontractor and that requires us to participate in vendor management contracts, which may subject us to greater risks or lower margins.If Apex is unable to sustain its rate of growth, the growth prospects and future results of On Assignment are likely to be adversely affected.Over the past eight years, Apex has undergone revenue and earnings growth. This growth has come from Apex's focus on information technology staffing, increased market share with existing clients, addition of new clients, national presence and infrastructure that promotes high operating leverage. There is no assurance that Apex will be able to continue this pace of growth in the future. Such growth also could be negatively affected by many factors, including future technology industry conditions, the effects of integration with the Company's business or macroeconomic events. If Apex's growth rate slows, or if it fails to grow at the pace anticipated by the Company, the growth prospects and future results of the Company are likely to be adversely affected.13Fluctuation in patient occupancy rates at client facilities could adversely affect demand for services of our Healthcare and Physician segments and our results of operations. Client demand for our Healthcare and Physician segment services is significantly impacted by changes in patient occupancy rates at our hospital and healthcare clients’ facilities. Increases in occupancy often result in increased client need for contract professionals before full-time employees can be hired. During periods of decreased occupancy, however, hospitals and other healthcare facilities typically reduce their use of contract professionals before laying off their regular, full-time employees. During periods of decreased occupancy, we may experience increased competition to service clients, including pricing pressure. Occupancy at certain healthcare clients’ facilities also fluctuates due to the seasonality of some elective procedures and patients declining elective procedures. Periods of decreased occupancy at client healthcare facilities could materially adversely affect our results of operations.If we cannot attract, develop and retain qualified and skilled sales and recruiting staff, our business growth will suffer. A key component of our ability to grow our business is our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified and skilled sales and recruiting staff, particularly persons with industry experience. The available pool of qualified staffing consultant candidates is limited, and further constrained by the industry practice of entering into non-compete agreements with these employees, which may restrict their ability to accept employment with other staffing firms, including us. We cannot assure that we will be able to recruit, develop and retain qualified sales and recruiting staff in sufficient numbers, or that our staffing consultants will achieve productivity levels sufficient to enable growth of our business. Failure to attract and retain productive sales and recruiting staff could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.If we are unable to attract and retain qualified contract professionals, our business could be negatively impacted. Our business is substantially dependent upon our ability to attract and retain contract professionals who possess the skills, experience, and licenses, as required, to meet the specified requirements of our clients. We compete for such contract professionals with other temporary staffing companies and with our clients and potential clients. There can be no assurance that qualified healthcare, nursing, life sciences, physician, IT and engineering professionals will be available to us in adequate numbers to staff our operating segments. Moreover, our contract professionals are often hired to become regular employees of our clients. Attracting and retaining contract professionals depends on several factors, including our ability to provide contract professionals with desirable assignments and competitive benefits and wages. The cost of attracting and retaining contract professionals may be higher than we anticipate and, as a result, if we are unable to pass these costs on to our clients, our likelihood of achieving or maintaining profitability could decline. In periods of high unemployment, contract professionals frequently opt for full-time employment directly with clients and, due to a large pool of available candidates, clients are able to directly hire and recruit qualified candidates without the involvement of staffing agencies. If we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of contract professionals to meet client demand, we may be required to forgo staffing and revenue opportunities, which may hurt the growth of our business. Reclassification of our independent contractors by tax authorities could materially and adversely affect our business model and could require us to pay significant retroactive wages, taxes and penalties. We consider our locum tenens physicians to be independent contractors rather than employees. As such, we do not withhold or pay income or other employment related taxes, or provide workers’ compensation insurance for them. Our classification of locum tenens physicians as independent contractors is consistent with general industry standard, but can nonetheless be challenged by the contractors themselves or by relevant taxing authorities. If federal or state taxing authorities determine that locums tenens physicians engaged as independent contractors are employees, our business model for that segment would be materially and adversely affected. Although we believe we qualify for safe harbor under the provisions of Section 530 of the Revenue Act of 1978, Pub. L. No. 95−600, and any similar applicable state laws, we could incur significant liability for past wages, taxes, penalties and other employment benefits if we could not so qualify. In addition, many states have laws that prohibit non−physician owned companies from employing physicians. If our independent contractor physicians are classified as employees, we could be found in violation of such state laws, which could subject us to liability in those states and thereby negatively impact our profitability.Our costs of providing travel and housing for traveling contract professionals may be higher than we anticipate and, as a result, our margins could decline. If our travel and housing costs, including the costs of airline tickets, rental cars, apartments and rental furniture for our traveling contract professionals exceed the levels we anticipate, and we are unable to pass such increases on to our clients, our margins may decline. To the extent the length of our apartment leases exceed the terms of our staffing contracts, we bear the risk that we will be obligated to pay rent for housing we do not use. If we cannot source a sufficient number of appropriate short-term leases in regional markets, or if, for any reason, we are unable to efficiently utilize the apartments we do lease, we may be required to pay rent for unutilized or underutilized housing. Effective management of travel costs will be necessary to prevent a decrease in gross profit and gross and operating margins. Future changes in reimbursement trends could hamper our Healthcare and Physician segments clients’ ability to pay us, which would harm our financial results. Many of our Healthcare and Physician segments’ clients are reimbursed under the federal Medicare program and state Medicaid programs for the services they provide. In recent years, federal and state governments have made significant changes in these programs that 14have reduced reimbursement rates. In addition, insurance companies and managed care organizations seek to control costs by requiring that healthcare providers, such as hospitals, discount their services in exchange for exclusive or preferred participation in their benefit plans. Future federal and state legislation or evolving commercial reimbursement trends may further reduce, or change conditions for, our clients’ reimbursement. Limitations on reimbursement could reduce our clients’ cash flows, thereby hampering their ability to pay us. If our insurance costs increase significantly, these incremental costs could negatively affect our financial results. The costs related to obtaining and maintaining workers’ compensation insurance, medical malpractice insurance, professional and general liability insurance and health insurance for our contract professionals have been increasing. If the cost of carrying this insurance continues to increase significantly, this may reduce our gross and operating margins and affect our financial results.We may be subject to increases in payroll-related costs and unemployment insurance taxes, resulting in lower margins. We currently pay federal, state and local payroll costs and taxes for our corporate employees and contract professional employees. If we are subject to significant increases in costs associated with payroll and unemployment taxes, we may not be able to increase client bill rates to cover the additional expense and this may reduce our gross and operating margins and affect our financial results.Significant legal actions and claims could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities, result in damage to our business reputation, discontinuation of our client relationships and adversely affect our recruitment and retention efforts.In recent years, we have been subject to an increasing number of legal actions alleging malpractice, vicarious liability, intentional torts, negligent hiring, discrimination, sexual harassment, retroactive entitlement to employee benefits, violation of wage and hour requirements, or related legal theories. We may be subject to liability in such cases even if the contribution to the alleged injury was minimal. Many of these actions involve large claims and significant defense costs. In addition, we may be subject to claims related to torts or crimes committed by our corporate employees or contract professionals. In most instances, we are required to indemnify clients against some or all of these risks. A failure of any of our corporate employees or contract professionals to observe our policies and guidelines intended to reduce these risks; relevant client policies and guidelines or applicable federal, state or local laws, rules and regulations could result in negative publicity, payment of fines or other damages. We may be subject to possible claims by our clients related to errors and omissions, misuse of proprietary information, breach of confidentiality, discrimination and harassment, theft and other criminal activity, malpractice and other claims stemming from the improper activities or alleged activities of our contract professionals. To protect ourselves from the cost of these types of claims, we maintain workers’ compensation, medical malpractice, errors and omissions, employment practices and general liability insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations. Our coverage includes a large retention amount, and our insurance coverage may not cover all claims against us or continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost. If we are unable to maintain adequate insurance coverage, we may be exposed to substantial liabilities. Claims raised by clients stemming from the improper actions of our contract professionals, even if without merit, could cause us to incur significant expense associated with the costs or damages related to such claims. Further, such claims by clients could damage our business reputation and result in the discontinuation of client relationships. Any associated negative publicity could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain qualified contract professionals in the future.We operate in a regulated industry and changes in regulations or violations of regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions that could reduce our revenues and profitability. Our organization is subject to extensive and complex federal and state laws and regulations including but not limited to laws and regulations related to professional licensure, payroll tax, conduct of operations, payment for services and payment for referrals. If we fail to comply with the laws and regulations that are directly applicable to our business, we could suffer civil and/or criminal penalties or be subject to injunctions or cease and desist orders. Extensive and complex laws that apply to our hospital and healthcare facility clients, including laws related to Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs, could indirectly affect the demand or the prices paid for our services. For example, our hospital and healthcare facility clients could suffer civil and/or criminal penalties and/or be excluded from participating in Medicare, Medicaid and other healthcare programs if they fail to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to their businesses. In addition, our hospital and healthcare facility clients could receive reduced reimbursements or be excluded from coverage because of a change in the rates or conditions set by federal or state governments. In turn, violations of or changes to these laws and regulations that adversely affect our hospital and healthcare facility clients could also adversely affect the prices that these clients are willing or able to pay for our services.U.S. healthcare legislation could negatively impact our results of operations. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the Acts) were signed into U.S. law. The Acts represent comprehensive healthcare reform legislation that, in addition to other provisions, will require that we provide healthcare coverage to our temporary employees in the United States or incur penalties. Although our intent is to bill these costs to our customers, there can be no assurance that we will be able to increase client bill rates in a sufficient amount to cover the increased costs. This may reduce our gross and operating margins and negatively impact our financial results. Additionally, since significant provisions of the Acts will not become effective until 2014, possible future changes to the Acts could significantly impact any 15estimates we develop during that period. While we are unable at this time to estimate the net impact of the Acts, we believe the net financial impact on our results of operations could be significant.We may not successfully make or integrate acquisitions, which could harm our business and growth. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to opportunistically pursue selected acquisitions. We compete with other companies in the professional staffing and consulting industries for acquisition opportunities, and we cannot assure that we will be able to affect future acquisitions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. To the extent we enter into acquisition transactions in the future, we may experience:•delays in realizing or a failure to realize the benefits, cost savings and synergies that we anticipate;•difficulties or higher-than-anticipated costs associated with integrating any acquired companies into our businesses;•attrition of key personnel from acquired businesses;•diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns;•inability to maintain the business relationships and reputation of the acquired companies;•difficulties in integrating the acquired companies into our information systems, controls, policies and procedures;•additional risks relating to the businesses or industry of the acquired companies that are different from ours;•unexpected liabilities, costs or charges;•unforeseen operating difficulties that require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing operations; and•impairment related to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets acquiredTo undertake more transactions, additional financing may be necessary and, if used, would result in additional debt, dilution of outstanding equity, or both. We may face unexpected contingent liabilities arising from these or future acquisitions that could harm our business.Impairment of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets could materially impact future results of operations. We have approximately $498.4 million in goodwill and $263.8 million in identifiable intangible assets at December 31, 2012. As part of the testing of goodwill impairment, Accounting Standards Codification Topic 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other, requires the Company to estimate the fair value of its reporting units on at least an annual basis and more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. The impairment tests consist of comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount including goodwill. We determine the fair value of each reporting unit based upon a weighted average calculation using the fair value derived from a discounted cash flow analysis and a market approach analysis. Discounted cash flows are developed for each reporting unit based on assumptions including revenue growth expectations, gross margins, operating expense projections, working capital, capital expense requirements and tax rates. The multi-year financial forecasts for each reporting unit used in the cash flow models considered several key business drivers such as new product lines, historical performance and industry and economic trends, among other considerations. The market approach considers multiples of financial metrics, primarily EBITDA, based on trading multiples of a group of guideline public companies in the staffing industry, which multiples are then applied to the corresponding financial metrics of our reporting units to derive an indication of fair value. There are inherent uncertainties related to the factors, and management's judgment in applying these factors. At October 31, 2012, we performed our annual goodwill impairment test and concluded that there was no impairment. Future declines in our market capitalization or any other impairment indicators subsequent to the balance sheet date could be an early indication that remaining goodwill may become impaired in the future. Although a future impairment of goodwill and indefinite lived identifiable intangible assets would not affect our cash flow, it would negatively impact our operating results.Intangible assets with indefinite lives consist of trademarks. We test trademarks for impairment on an annual basis, on October 31. In order to test the trademarks for impairment, we determine the fair value of the trademarks and compare such amount to its carrying value. We determine the fair value of the trademarks using a projected discounted cash flow analysis based on the relief-from-royalty approach. The principal factors used in the discounted cash flow analysis requiring judgment are projected net sales, discount rate, royalty rate and terminal value assumption. The royalty rate used in the analysis is based on transactions that have occurred in our industry. Intangible assets having finite lives are amortized over their useful lives and are tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Customer relations are amortized using an accelerated method. Contractor relations and non-compete agreements are amortized using the straight-line method. We did not have any impairment of indefinite lived or finite lived intangibles in 2012.We are subject to business risks associated with international operations, which could make our international operations significantly more costly. During 2012, we had international sales in all countries in the European Union, in Canada, New Zealand and Australia. In 2012, our international operations comprised approximately 6.3 percent of total sales compared with 11.4 percent and 7.0 percent in 2011 and 2010, respectively. We have limited experience in marketing, selling and supporting our services outside of North America. Operations in certain markets are subject to risks inherent in international business activities, including: •fluctuations in currency exchange rates;•complicated work permit requirements;•varying economic and political conditions;16•seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe and Asia;•overlapping or differing tax structures;•difficulties collecting accounts receivable; and•regulations concerning pay rates, benefits, vacation, union membership, redundancy payments and the termination of employment.Our inability to effectively manage our international operations could result in increased costs and adversely affect our results of operations.Adverse results in tax examinations could subject us to unforeseen liabilities and impact our financial results.We are subject to periodic tax audits. Adverse findings or assessments made by taxing authorities as the result of an audit could have an adverse effect on our financial results, if we are unable to sustain our position with the relevant jurisdiction.If our information systems do not function in a cost effective manner, our business will be harmed. The operation of our business is dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems. In 2012, we continued to upgrade our information technology systems, including our PeopleSoft and Recruitmax Technology enterprise-wide information systems used in daily operations to identify and match staffing resources and client assignments, track regulatory credentialing, manage scheduling, and perform billing and accounts receivable functions. If the systems fail to perform reliably or otherwise do not meet our expectations, or if we fail to successfully complete the implementation of other modules of the systems, we could experience business interruptions that could result in deferred or lost sales. Our information systems are vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins, viruses, security breaches and similar events. Our network infrastructure is currently located at our facility in Salt Lake City, Utah. As a result, any system failure or service outage at this primary facility could result in a loss of service for the duration of the failure of the outage. Our location in Southern California is susceptible to earthquakes and has experienced power shortages and outages in the past, which could result in system failures or outages. If our information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, these functions would have to be accomplished manually, which could impact our ability to respond to business opportunities quickly, to pay our staff in a timely fashion and to bill for services efficiently.The loss of key members of our senior management team could adversely affect the execution of our business strategy and our financial results. We believe that the successful execution of our business strategy and our ability to build upon the significant recent investments in our business and acquisitions of new businesses depends on the continued employment of key members of our senior management team. If any members of our senior management team become unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, our financial results and our business could be materially adversely affected.Failure of internal controls may leave us susceptible to errors and fraud. Our management, including our CEO and CFO, does not expect that our disclosure controls and internal controls will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Furthermore, because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, would be detected.Failure to comply with restrictive covenants under our debt instruments could trigger prepayment obligations or additional costs. Our failure to comply with restrictive covenants under our credit facilities and other debt instruments could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the requirement to repay such borrowings before their due date. Some covenants are tied to our operating results and thus may be breached if we do not perform as expected. The lenders may require fees and expenses to be paid or other changes to terms in connection with waivers or amendments. If we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by increased costs and/or rates.The trading price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations, which could make it difficult for us to access the public markets for financing or use our common stock as consideration in a strategic transaction. In 2012, the trading price of our common stock experienced significant fluctuations, ranging from a high of $20.93 to a low of $10.65. The closing price of our common stock on the NYSE was $24.85 on March 8, 2013. Our common stock may continue to fluctuate widely as a result of a large number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: •period to period fluctuations in our financial results or those of our competitors;•failure to meet previously announced guidance or analysts’ expectations of our quarterly results;•announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments;•commencement of, or involvement in, litigation;•any major change in our board or management;•changes in government regulations, including those related to Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement policies;•recommendations by securities analysts or changes in earnings estimates;17•announcements about our earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations;•the volume of shares of common stock available for public sale;•announcements by our competitors of their earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations;•sales of stock by us or by our shareholders;•short sales, hedging and other derivative transactions in shares of our common stock; and•general economic conditions, slow or negative growth of unrelated markets and other external factors.The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the trading prices of the common stock of many companies involved in the temporary staffing industry. As a result of these fluctuations, we may encounter difficulty should we determine to access the public markets for financing or use our common stock as consideration in a strategic transaction.Our results of operations may vary from quarter to quarter as a result of a number of factors, which may make it difficult to evaluate our business and could cause instability in the trading price of our common stock. Factors that may cause our quarterly results to fluctuate include: •the level of demand for our temporary staffing services and the efficiency with which we source and assign our contract professionals and support our staffing consultants in the execution of their duties;•changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; and•our ability to control costs and manage our accounts receivable balances.Most temporary staffing companies experience seasonal declines in demand during the first and fourth quarters, as a result of fewer business days and the reduced number of contract professionals willing to work during the holidays. Historically, we have experienced variability in the duration and depth of these seasonal declines, which in turn have materially affected our quarterly results of operations and made period-to-period comparisons of our financial and operating performance difficult. If our operating results are below the expectations of public market analysts or investors in a given quarter, the trading price of our common stock could decline.Future sales of our common stock and the future exercise of options may cause the market price of our common stock to decline and may result in substantial dilution.We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our common stock, or the availability of our common stock for sale will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market by management or us, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and may make it more difficult for you to sell your common stock at a time and price which you may deem appropriate. We have adopted anti-takeover measures that could prevent a change in our control. We adopted a shareholder rights plan that has certain anti-takeover effects and will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us in a manner or on terms that have not been approved by our board of directors. This plan could delay or impede the removal of incumbent directors and could make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us, even if such events could be beneficial, in the short-term, to the interests of our shareholders. In addition, such provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that limit liability and provide for indemnification of our directors and officers, and provide that our stockholders can take action only at a duly called meeting of stockholders. These provisions and others also may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying changes in control or management. Provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent a change in control that our stockholders consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: •Our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors.•Our stockholders may not act by written consent. In addition, a holder or holders controlling a majority of our capital stock would not be able to take certain actions without holding a stockholder’s meeting, and only stockholders owning at least 50 percent of our entire voting stock must request in writing in order to call a special meeting of stockholders (which is in addition to the authority held by our board of directors to call a special stockholder meeting).•Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company.•Our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, up to one million shares of undesignated or “blank check” preferred stock. The ability to issue undesignated or “blank check” preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred 18stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us.As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under these provisions, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any large stockholders who hold 15 percent or more of our outstanding voting capital stock in a merger or business combination unless the holder has held the stock for 3 years, the board of directors has expressly approved the merger or business transaction or at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting capital stock not owned by such large stockholder approve the merger or the transaction. These provisions of Delaware law may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control, and may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over its market price. In addition, our board of directors could rely on these provisions of Delaware law to discourage, prevent or delay an acquisition of us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 