Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to many risks that may negatively affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Risks Relating To Our Business And Strategy If we are unable to attract and retain healthcare staff at reasonable costs, it could increase our operating costs and negatively impact our business. We rely significantly on our ability to attract and retain homecare aides, nurses and nurses aides who possess the skills, experience and, if required, licenses necessary to meet the requirements of our customers. We compete for flexible healthcare staffing personnel with other flexible healthcare staffing companies, with hospitals and healthcare facilities and with other entry-level employment opportunities. Staff choose to work for a healthcare staffing company based on the quantity, diversity and quality of assignments offered and on compensation packages and other benefits. We must continually evaluate and upgrade our flexible staffing network to keep pace with our customers’ needs and to remain competitive in our business. While the shortage of homecare aides, nurses and nurses aides in most areas of the United Kingdom has become less of an issue in the current worldwide economic downturn, we anticipate that over time as the economy recovers a shortage will reoccur. We may be unable to continue to increase the number of healthcare staff that we recruit, decreasing the potential for growth of our business. Our ability to attract and retain healthcare staff depends on several factors, including our ability to provide them with assignments that they view as attractive and to provide them with competitive benefits and wages. We cannot assure that we will be successful in any of these areas. The cost of attracting healthcare staff and providing them with attractive benefit packages may be higher than we anticipate and, as a result, if we are unable to pass these costs on to our customers, our profitability could decline. Moreover, if we are unable to attract and retain healthcare staff, our ability to provide adequate services to our customers may decline and, as a result, we could lose customers. - 18 - Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive market and our success depends on our ability to obtain and retain customers. The flexible healthcare staffing business is highly competitive. We compete in national, regional and local markets in the United Kingdom with full-service staffing companies, specialized flexible staffing agencies, NHS Professionals, hospitals, nursing homes and other home healthcare businesses. There are relatively few barriers to entry in the markets we serve and, historically, our industry has been highly fragmented. While we expect to continue to face competition from a broad range of companies, the recent consolidation trend in our industry is likely to result in an increase in the number of larger companies that are able to service regional or national markets. We believe that the primary competitive factors in obtaining and retaining customers are identifying appropriate healthcare staff for specific job requirements, providing staff in a timely manner, pricing services competitively and effectively monitoring job performance. With the introduction by the U.K. government of individualized budgets and direct payments for service users (the “personalization agenda”), another competitive factor is the ability to transition from the business to business sales model (whereby currently the local governmental social service department chooses the level and type of care and support services the service user requires) to a business to consumer model (whereby the service user chooses the level and type of care and support services they require). Competition for customers may increase in the future and, as a result we may not be able to remain competitive. To the extent competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices or increasing marketing expenditures, we could lose revenues and our margins could decline, which could harm our operating results. In addition, the development of alternative recruitment channels and the introduction of the individualized budget and direct payments could lead our hospital, healthcare facility and other customers to bypass our services, which would also cause our revenues and margins to decline. A change in treatment of flexible staff for U.K. tax, employment, benefits and pension purposes could result in increased costs. In December 2008, the Temporary Agency Workers Directive (the “Directive”), which introduced additional protection for agency workers, was published by the European Union. The Directive gives member states until December 5, 2011 to implement its provisions. The U.K. government has announced its intention for the relevant U.K. legislation to come into effect on October 1, 2011 in Great Britain. The Directive will not apply to Northern Ireland. Pursuant to this legislation, once agency workers have been engaged for a period of 12 weeks, they will be entitled to at least the basic working and employment conditions to which they would have been entitled if they had been recruited directly by the client. Engagement in a substantially different role breaks the continuity. - 19 - Table of Contents The implementation of the U.K. legislation in 2011 could adversely affect our business. The requirement to give agency workers engaged for a period of more than 12 weeks at least the same basic working and employment conditions as other employees of the client or the same basic working and employment conditions that they would have received had they been recruited directly by the client may make the use of agency workers less attractive to our hospital and institutional care customers. It is not yet clear how an assessment of working and employment conditions can be conducted where the client does not have any of its own employees providing the same services or whether it is even applicable to homecare services, which constitutes the majority of our business. In the U.K., the Pensions Act 2008 is to be introduced in phases, over a five year period beginning in 2012, and will require employers to automatically enroll all eligible jobholders, who are not already in a qualifying workplace or personal pension plan, into either a qualifying workplace or personal pension plan or a new type of savings arrangement, known as the personal accounts plan. Automatic enrollment means that if jobholders do not wish to be a member of the plan offered to them they must actively opt out of that arrangement. Initially employers will be required to contribute a minimum of 1% of the jobholder’s qualifying earnings. Upon the final phase in of the legislation, employers will be required to contribute a minimum of 3% of the jobholders qualifying earnings, which will be supplemented by contributions from the jobholder so that, in total, the pension contribution for each jobholder should equal a minimum of 8% of the jobholder’s qualifying earnings. There will be limits set on the amount that employers and jobholders can contribute in any one year. The personal accounts plan will be a new trust-based occupational plan, which is independent of the U.K. government and run by a trustee corporation. The extent to which we can recover this additional cost from our customers is uncertain and could impact our profit margins. Our branch structure could result in unforeseen costs and could adversely impact our business. Our branches operate on a relatively autonomous basis in terms of the recruitment and placement of staff and the marketing of customers. However, we generally maintain centralized management control in the areas of payroll, accounts receivable, contracts, pricing, regulatory matters, quality control and information technology. If we fail to exert proper centralized management control, our local branches could engage in unauthorized activities, our management initiatives may not be successfully implemented and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. The loss of key senior management personnel could adversely affect our ability to remain competitive. We rely heavily on our senior management team, led by Alexander (Sandy) Young, our chief executive officer, and Paul Weston, our chief financial officer. We have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Young. Mr. Young’s employment agreement provides that it shall continue until terminated by either party giving the other party no less than 12 month’s prior written notice. In addition, the employment agreement automatically terminates on Mr. Young’s 65th birthday (although, under legislation to take effect in October 2011, such an automatic retirement would need to be justified). We have also entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Weston. Mr. Weston’s employment does not have a fixed term, but provides that either party may terminate the agreement upon six months’ written notice. The loss or unavailability for an extended period of time of either Mr. Young or Mr. Weston could have a material adverse effect on our operations and prospects. - 20 - Table of Contents We are dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems. We are dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems in operating our business. Our operations have an IT disaster recovery plan. However, they are still vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins and similar events. If critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, these functions would have to be accomplished manually, which could temporarily impact our ability to identify business opportunities quickly, to maintain billing and clinical records reliably, to bill for services efficiently and to maintain our accounting and financial reporting effectively. In fiscal 2008, we approved the purchase of a new branch operating system supplied by Coldharbour, a privately-owned U.K. company that supplies many of our competitors. This system is currently being rolled out across our branch network with a targeted completion date in fiscal 2012. We anticipate incurring total expenditures, both contractual and non-contractual, relating to software, hardware, hosting services and training costs, of approximately $6.9 million (at the closing exchange rate at September 30, 2010), of which $4.5 million has been incurred and $2.4 million is expected to be incurred in fiscals 2011 and 2012. Our business is subject to certain risks inherent to international operations. We operate in the United Kingdom and Ireland. As a result, we are subject to a variety of risks, including: • because the revenues and expenses of our principal operations are denominated in pounds sterling and euros but we report our financial results in U.S. dollars, our financial results are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates that are unrelated to our results of operations; • varying laws relating to, among other things, employment and employment termination; • changes in regulatory requirements; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. These risks may materially and adversely affect our business results of operations or financial condition. - 21 - Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected by the current economic recession. The United Kingdom, Irish and other international economies are experiencing a significant recession. The recession has been magnified by the tightening of the credit markets. Although our business was not significantly affected at the beginning of fiscal 2010 by the recession, we have noticed some impact in our fourth quarter results as we did not see typical increases in either service prices or the number of service hours. We believe this is as a result of the efforts by the U.K. government to restrict its public spending in an effort to reduce its fiscal deficit. In addition, due to the Republic of Ireland’s request for external funding support from the International Monetary Fund and other European bodies, it will be forced to implement plans to significantly reduce its spending. There can be no assurance that our business will not be materially affected by the consequences of these events during fiscal 2011 and in future years. Risks Relating To The Flexible Healthcare Staffing Market Our ability to compete in the homecare services market depends on our ability to obtain assignments from local governmental social service departments and NHS Primary Care Trusts. The largest providers of homecare services in the United Kingdom are local governmental social service departments and NHS Primary Care Trusts. Outsourcing of homecare by these bodies is the principal source of revenue and growth in the homecare staffing market. Though figures vary widely among local governments, homecare provided directly by the local governments typically is significantly more expensive per hour of care than homecare outsourced to independent homecare providers. While we believe there is potential for further outsourcing of homecare by local governments and NHS Primary Care Trusts, the benefits arising from these benefits may be reduced by tighter local governmental and NHS Primary Care Trust budgets, the implementation of the personalization agenda or by policy changes or legislation. Both governmental and NHS bodies are under pressure to achieve significant cost savings and efficiencies and to support the personalization agenda. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will be chosen by local governmental social service departments or NHS Primary Care Trusts, or other providers of homecare services, to provide outsourced homecare services in the future, or that we will be able to recruit and retain homecare staff at hourly rates that local governments and NHS Primary Care Trusts are willing to pay. Further, U.K. government proposals made in June 2010 provide for the abolition of NHS Primary Care Trusts in 2013 and commissioning of services to be performed at a local level by new GP Consortia and at a national level for certain larger projects by a new NHS Commissioning Board. These potential changes give rise to further risk of disruption and alteration of current outsourcing/commissioning arrangements. The introduction of the personalization agenda, individual budgets and direct payments could result in the service user utilizing companies other than us to provide healthcare services. The government introduction of the personalization agenda, individualized budgets and direct payments, whereby the service user chooses the level and type of care and support services they require instead of the local governmental social service departments, could result in the service user utilizing companies other than us to provide healthcare services. There is currently a public debate as to the applicability of employment protection legislation where personal budgets result in a change of provider. If such legislative protections were to apply it would have the effect of dedicated staff transferring to the new provider. - 22 - Table of Contents Lower U.K. government spending arising from the Comprehensive Spending Review may result in lower training support grants being awarded which may increase our training costs. Currently we benefit from grants received from the U.K. government in respect of training provided to carers. Based on the U.K. government budget constraints and in an effort to reduce its costs, the current level of training grants may be reduced, which would have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Local governmental social service departments continue to outsource the majority of their homecare service requirements. Currently local authorities outsource the majority of the homecare service requirements under a block or spot contract with private providers. New initiatives include local governmental social service departments working to deliver on the government’s concord on individual “choice and control,” as a result of which the United Kingdom is seeing the introduction of the personalization agenda. Direct payments may allow some service users to choose the level and type of care and support services they require and effectively moves the power of the purchasing decision from the local governmental social service department to the individual. Our ability to sell effectively to this new group of purchasers is affected by our ability to access the contact details of all service users receiving direct funding from the local governmental social service department. This information is secured under the Data Protection Act of 1998 and is often inaccessible. If NHS Primary Care Trusts (or, in the future, GP Consortia and NHS Commissioning Board’s) do not continue to use homecare as an alternative to residential or NHS Hospitals, our revenues may be adversely affected. We anticipate that healthcare at home will continue to expand, but there can be no assurance that this trend will continue, especially if legislation or NHS Primary Care Trust (or, in the future, GP Consortia and NHS Commissioning Board’s) provision preferences and allocated funding change. If this trend does not continue, our revenues may be adversely affected. Demand for flexible staffing may fail to rise, remain at current levels or may decline for a variety of reasons, including general economic conditions. Although we anticipate that the market for flexible staffing in the healthcare sector will continue to expand, there can be no assurance that growth will occur at all or continue at historic rates or at the rate currently expected. Our growth could be adversely affected by changes in legislation and the procurement method for homecare services that allows service users (the individual receiving healthcare services) to choose his or her level and type of care. In the last few years, U.K. case law on agency workers has indicated that in limited circumstances agency workers could be deemed to be employees of the customer end-user. Consequently, it is possible that some of the advantages to hospitals and other purchasers of using temporary workers may be lost because of the risk that they will be deemed to be the employer of such workers, and therefore they may decide to hire permanent staff rather than temporary staff. However, current case law suggests that the circumstances in which an end user can be found to be the employer of any agency worker is rare when that agency worker is engaged directly by the agency provider, there is no direct relationship between the end user and the individual and certain other criteria are satisfied (for example, the end user does not performance-manage the individual). In addition, demand for flexible healthcare staffing services may be significantly affected by the general level of economic activity and economic conditions in the regions in which we operate. - 23 - Table of Contents If demand for staffing in the healthcare sector generally declines or does not increase at the rate we anticipate, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Fluctuations in patient occupancy at the hospitals, nursing homes and care homes of our customers may adversely affect the demand for our services and therefore our financial performance. Demand for our flexible healthcare staff is affected by the general level of patient occupancy at the hospitals and nursing and care homes of our customers. When occupancy increases, our employees are often added before full-time employees are hired. As occupancy decreases, healthcare facility customers typically will reduce their use of temporary employees before undertaking layoffs of their regular employees. In addition, we may experience more competitive pricing pressure during periods of occupancy downturn. Occupancy at our healthcare customers’ facilities also fluctuates due to the seasonality of some elective procedures. We are unable to predict the level of patient occupancy at any particular time and its effect on our revenues and earnings. We operate in a regulated industry and violations of laws or regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions that could impact our financial performance. Moreover, recent and proposed changes in U.K. regulations affecting flexible staffing companies may result in increased costs that reduce our revenue and profitability. Our business is subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations in the United Kingdom. These include, but are not limited to, laws and regulations relating to licensing, conduct of operations, payment for services and referrals, treatment of staff, benefits payable to temporary staff and taxation. If we fail to comply with the laws and regulations that are applicable to our business, we could suffer civil and/or criminal penalties or we could be required to stop operating in one or more jurisdictions. The Pension Act 2008, which will be phased in over a five year period starting in 2012, will require employers to automatically enroll all eligible jobholders, who are not already in a qualifying workplace or personal pension plan, into either a qualifying workplace or personal pension plan or a new type of savings arrangement unless they actively opt out of that arrangement. The extent to which we can recover this additional cost from our customers is uncertain and could impact our profit margins. We may not be able to pass along to our customers the costs of complying with these or other legislative changes. - 24 - Table of Contents NHS reforms may have a substantial negative impact upon us. Flexible staffing providers, such as our company, are subject to the risk that the NHS will continue to regulate the price it pays for temporary staffing services, reduce its use of temporary staffing services or replace its use of temporary staffing services where possible with permanent employees. One initiative undertaken by the NHS is the requirement that agencies wishing to supply the NHS Hospitals with temporary staff enter into Framework Agreements. Any attempt to expand the Framework Agreements to cover local governmental social service departments or a wider group of customers, including NHS Primary Care Trusts (and, in the future, GP Consortia and NHS Commissioning Boards), could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. Since the provision of flexible staff is exempt from VAT, we are largely unable to recover any VAT that we incur, thereby increasing our costs of doing business. In some of our supply of healthcare staffing services we have historically benefited from a concession under U.K. law (the “Staff Hire Concession”) which allowed us to charge value-added tax (“VAT”) only on the amount of commission charged to the purchaser of flexible staff. The Staff Hire Concession expired in March 2009. We undertook a review of our post-concession VAT treatment and concluded that, other than permanent placement, our supplies are exempt from VAT on the basis that we provide nursing and welfare services and not the supply of staff (which are not exempt from VAT). However, if we are deemed to supply staff, there is, by concession, a further exemption from VAT under U.K. law for the supply of nursing staff and nursing auxiliaries if certain conditions are met. A change in VAT legislation and/or concessions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Since the majority of our services are now exempt from VAT, our overall costs have increased as we are not able to recover any VAT that we incur on purchases from our suppliers (such as, for example, utilities) in respect of the goods and services that they supply to us. Significant legal actions could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities. In recent years, healthcare providers have become subject to an increasing number of legal actions alleging medical malpractice, abuse, neglect, negligent hiring, product liability or other breaches of duty. Many of these actions involve large claims and significant defense costs. In addition, we may be subject to civil or criminal claims arising from actions taken by our employees or staff, such as misuse of proprietary information or theft of property. In some instances, we are required to indemnify customers against some or all of these risks. A failure of any of our employees or personnel to observe our policies and guidelines intended to reduce these risks, relevant customer policies and guidelines or applicable laws, rules and regulations could result in negative publicity, payment of fines or other damages. In addition, breaches of the Care Standards Act 2000 and associated regulations could result in the revocation of registration or the imposition of conditions on that registration that could adversely effect the continuation of our business in the United Kingdom. Litigation is costly and, even if we do prevail, the cost of such litigation could adversely affect our consolidated financial statements. - 25 - Table of Contents In addition, in the course of our operations we may face possible claims by employees or employee candidates of discrimination or harassment (including for actions our customers or their employees may have taken), violations of health and safety regulations, workers compensation claims, retroactive entitlement to benefits, unfair dismissal and other similar claims. Our insurance may not be adequate to protect us from claims for which we may become liable. To protect ourselves from the cost of claims alleging medical malpractice or other causes of action, we maintain malpractice liability insurance and general liability insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations. While we have been able to obtain liability insurance in the past, this insurance varies in cost, is difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on terms acceptable to us, if it is available at all. The failure to maintain insurance coverage or a successful claim not covered by or in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, cash flows or results of operations. In addition, claims, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, may have a material adverse effect on our reputation. Risks Relating To Our Financial Condition We have incurred substantial amounts of goodwill from our acquisitions, some or all of which we may be required to write off, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Goodwill represents the purchase price of an acquisition less the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired. We have incurred substantial amounts of goodwill from our acquisitions. Part of our strategy involves making additional acquisitions. Because businesses of the type we target often do not have substantial tangible assets, we expect that our acquisition of these businesses will cause us to continue to incur significant amounts of goodwill. At September 30, 2010 we had goodwill of approximately $102.9 million, which equaled approximately 54.1% of our total assets at that date. All goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are carried at cost and are subject to an annual impairment test. We evaluate, on a regular basis, whether events or circumstances have occurred that indicate all, or a portion, of the carrying amount of goodwill may no longer be recoverable, in which case an impairment charge to our earnings would become necessary. We completed our annual impairment test during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 and determined that there was no impairment to our recorded goodwill balance. However, any future determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of the carrying value of our goodwill could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. - 26 - Table of Contents Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforward in the future is limited. As of September 30, 2010, we had a U.S. federal net operating loss carryforward of approximately $70.4 million, expiring between 2018 and 2024. Our current operations are in the United Kingdom and Ireland. Under U.S. federal tax law, we can only offset our federal net operating loss carryforward against U.S. taxable income, including income earned from operations in the United States and certain other income, including dividends from our U.K. subsidiaries. As of September 30, 2010, we had recorded a full valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset created by the U.S. federal net operating loss carryforward as we did not believe it was more likely than not that such losses would be utilized prior to their expiration. Our public offering in July 2004 of shares of our common stock caused an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). Accordingly, Section 382 imposes an annual limit on our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforward. Our company recently discovered that, upon the ownership change triggered by the 2004 public offering, an election required under Section 382 of the Code to include the value of our foreign subsidiaries for purposes of determining the annual net operating loss utilization limitation had not been filed. Absent this election, the annual net operating utilization limitation would be negligible. We intend to seek a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service to get relief which would allow for a retroactive election. Although we believe it is more likely than not that such relief will be obtained, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain such relief. An inability to use a significant portion of our federal net operating loss carryforward could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating To Our Common Stock Future sales of our common stock by existing shareholders may lower the price of our common stock. As of December 9, 2010, we had 43,571,251 shares of common stock outstanding. In addition, as of November 30, 2010, our officers, directors, employees and consultants own options to acquire an aggregate of 3,520,334 shares of common stock under our 2002 Stock Option Plan. We may issue additional options under our 2002 Stock Option Plan. The shares of common stock to be issued upon exercise of the options granted under our 2002 Stock Option Plan have been registered and may be freely sold when issued. We have also issued stock appreciation rights to our chief executive officer that, if earned, will be paid in shares of our common stock. See “Item 11—Executive Compensation—Employment Agreements; Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change-in-Control” for a description of these stock appreciation rights. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock into the public market could lower the market price of our common stock. - 27 - Table of Contents If provisions in our corporate documents and New York law delay or prevent a change in control of our company, we may be unable to consummate a transaction that our shareholders consider favorable. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws or the New York Business Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our shareholders may consider favorable. These provisions include the following: • Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to ten million shares of “blank check” preferred stock. Without shareholder approval, the board of directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to these shares of preferred stock. With these rights, preferred shareholders could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. • Our by-laws require shareholders to provide advance notice of any stockholder nominations of directors or any proposal of new business to be considered at any meeting of shareholders. • We are subject to Section 912 of the New York Business Corporation Law, which, with certain exceptions, prohibits business combinations, including mergers, between a New York corporation and an “interested stockholder,” which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 20% or more of a New York corporation’s voting stock, for a five-year period following the date that the shareholder became an interested shareholder. Under the employment agreement that we have entered into with Alexander (Sandy) Young, our chief executive officer, we are required to give Mr. Young 12 month’s notice of the termination of his employment, during which time Mr. Young would continue to be paid his salary. Under the employment agreement with Paul Weston, our chief financial officer, we are required to pay him 12 months’ salary in the event he is terminated due to an acquisition. These provisions of the employment agreements may have the effect of preventing or delaying a change of control of our company, even if the change of control was favored by our shareholders. Our shareholder rights plan may make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us. In April 2009, our board adopted a shareholder rights plan pursuant to which each share of our outstanding common stock is accompanied by one preferred share purchase right. The shareholder rights plan was ratified by our shareholders at the 2010 annual meeting of shareholders. The rights generally will not become exercisable until a person or group acquires 20% or more of our common stock in a transaction that is not approved in advance by our board of directors. In that event, each right will entitle the holder, other than the unapproved acquirer and its affiliates, upon exercise of the right to acquire from us shares of our common stock having a value equal to two times the exercise price. Our board of directors may redeem the rights for a nominal amount at any time prior to ten days after a person or group announces that it has acquired 20% or more of our common stock. If not redeemed by the board, the rights will expire on April 1, 2019. Because the rights may substantially dilute the stock ownership of a person or group attempting to take over our company without the approval of our board of directors, the shareholder rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us (or 20% or more of our outstanding shares of common stock) without first negotiating with our board of directors regarding such acquisition, even if our shareholders might receive a price in excess of the then-current market price for their shares. - 28 - Table of Contents Our stock price may be volatile. In recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are often unrelated to the operating performance of specific companies. Our market price may fluctuate based on a number of factors, including: • our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; • news announcements relating to us, our industry or our competitors; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts; • changes in general economic conditions; • the number of shares that are publicly traded; • actions of our current shareholders; and • other developments affecting us, our industry or our competitors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have not received, during the 180 days preceding the end of our 2010 fiscal year, any written comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that remain unresolved. 