Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to many risks that may negatively affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Risks Relating To Our Business And Strategy If we are unable to attract and retain healthcare staff at reasonable costs, it could increase our operating costs and negatively impact our business. We rely significantly on our ability to attract and retain nurses, nurses aides and home health aides who possess the skills, experience and, if required, licenses necessary to meet the requirements of our customers. We compete for flexible healthcare staffing personnel with other flexible healthcare staffing companies and with hospitals and healthcare facilities. Staff choose to work for a temporary healthcare staffing company based on the quantity, diversity and quality of assignments offered and on compensation packages and other benefits. We must continually evaluate and upgrade our flexible staffing network to keep pace with our customers’ needs and to remain competitive in our business. Currently, there is a shortage of nurses, nurses aides and home health aides in most areas of the United Kingdom. Competition for such personnel is increasing and salaries and benefits have risen. We may be unable to continue to increase the number of nurses and other healthcare staff that we 11 Table of Contents recruit, decreasing the potential for growth of our business. Our ability to attract and retain nurses and other healthcare staff depends on several factors, including our ability to provide them with assignments that they view as attractive and to provide them with competitive benefits and wages. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in any of these areas. The cost of attracting nurses and other healthcare staff and providing them with attractive benefit packages may be higher than we anticipate and, as a result, if we are unable to pass these costs on to our hospital, healthcare facility and other customers, our profitability could decline. Moreover, if we are unable to attract and retain nurses and other healthcare staff, our ability to provide adequate services to our customers may decline and, as a result, we could lose customers. We operate in a highly competitive market and our success depends on our ability to obtain and retain customers. The flexible healthcare staffing business is highly competitive. We compete in national, regional and local markets in the United Kingdom with full-service staffing companies, specialized flexible staffing agencies, NHS Professionals, hospitals, nursing homes and other home healthcare businesses. There are relatively few barriers to entry in the markets we serve and, historically, our industry has been highly fragmented. While we expect to continue to face competition from a broad range of companies, the recent consolidation trend in our industry is likely to result in an increase in the number of larger companies that are able to service regional or national markets. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition, access to capital and marketing, financial and other resources than we do. We believe that the primary competitive factors in obtaining and retaining customers are identifying qualified healthcare staff for specific job requirements, providing qualified staff in a timely manner, pricing services competitively and effectively monitoring job performance. Competition for customers may increase in the future and, as a result we may not be able to remain competitive. To the extent competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices or increasing marketing expenditures, we could lose revenues or hospital, healthcare facility and other customers and our margins could decline, which could harm our operating results. In addition, the development of alternative recruitment channels could lead our hospital, healthcare facility and other customers to bypass our services, which would also cause our revenues and margins to decline. Our focus on the per diem market may be a competitive disadvantage. Unlike many other healthcare staffing businesses in the United Kingdom, we have actively pursued business in the per diem market rather than through long-term contracts. Although we believe that current and forecasted healthcare staff shortages will continue to fuel demand for staff in the per diem market, a change in the supply and demand dynamics for healthcare workers could result in business derived from long-term contracts becoming more attractive. In particular, the award of long-term contracts to our competitors (thereby granting ‘‘lead’’ supplier status to such competitors) could prevent us from securing the business of potential purchasers of temporary healthcare staffing. A change in treatment of flexible staff for U.K. tax, employment and benefits purposes could result in increased costs. Like all employment businesses, we are exposed to potential employment related claims from independent contractors who assert that they are employees. We currently treat our nurses and nurses aides as independent contractors, but this position could change if challenged in an employment tribunal or court. A recent tribunal case relating to agency workers indicated that agency workers could be the employee of either the agency that places them or the customer at which they are placed, depending on the circumstances. If our nurses and nurses aides are treated as employees, they could become entitled to additional statutory rights (such as the right to a redundancy payment and the right not to be unfairly dismissed), which could result in an increase in litigation and/or severance payments. We could also become liable to pay employer’s national insurance contributions in respect of our nurses and nurses aides. As a consequence, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Restrictive covenants in our debt facilities may limit our ability to make acquisitions. Restrictive covenants in our senior credit facility, including a requirement that we obtain bank and lender consent for acquisitions exceeding £10 million in the aggregate in any fiscal year or any individual acquisition exceeding £2 million in any fiscal year, may limit our ability to complete desirable acquisitions. If we are unable to secure necessary financing under our senior credit facility because of these restrictive covenants or from other sources, we may be unable to complete desirable acquisitions. Our decentralized structure could result in unforeseen costs and could adversely impact our business. We operate with a decentralized structure under which our branches operate on a relatively autonomous basis in terms of the recruitment and placement of staff and the marketing of customers. However, we generally maintain centralized management control in the areas of payroll, accounts receivable, contracts, pricing, regulatory matters, quality control and information technology. If we fail to exert proper centralized management control, our local branches could engage in unauthorized activities, our management initiatives may not be successfully implemented and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Risks associated with performing under new contracts. We operate mainly using contractual arrangements under which failure to perform may result in litigation, financial penalties or loss of revenue. To mitigate these risks we employ an in-house contract team, external lawyers and insurance coverage. Our in-house staff routinely reviews performance under the contract terms. The loss of key senior management personnel could adversely affect our ability to remain competitive. We rely heavily on our senior management team, led by Timothy M. Aitken, our chairman of the board and chief executive officer, Sarah L. Eames, our executive vice president, and David Moffatt, our chief financial officer. We have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Aitken that expires in September 2007, subject to automatic renewal for successive periods of one year each unless terminated by either party on 90 days’ notice prior to the then applicable renewal date, and an employment agreement with Ms. Eames that expires in April 2008, subject to automatic renewal for successive periods of one year each unless terminated by either party on 90 days’ notice prior to the then applicable renewal date. As of July 31, 2006, we entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Moffatt that does not have a fixed term; rather, the employment agreement provides that, during the first six months thereof, either party may terminate the agreement upon one month’s written notice and, thereafter, either party may terminate the agreement upon six month’s written notice. The loss or unavailability for an extended period of time of these officers could have a material adverse effect on our operations and prospects. We are dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems. We are dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems in operating our business. Our operations have an IT disaster recovery plan. However, they are still vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins and similar events. If critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, these functions would have to be accomplished manually, which could temporarily impact our ability to identify business opportunities quickly, to maintain billing and clinical records reliably, to bill for services efficiently and to maintain our accounting and financial reporting effectively. In fiscal 2005 we implemented a new computerized accounting and payroll system and in fiscal 2006 we implemented further changes to the system with the goal of improving the operating performance of our branches. However, we have discovered that the system is too slow for the nature of our business and therefore is not achieving full functionality. As such, we have decided to abandon certain of the software features of the Oracle platform and not continue with the planned expansion 13 Table of Contents as we believe the cost to have a workable model would exceed alternative solutions. During fiscal 2006, we recognized a pre-tax charge of $9.0 million on the write-off of our investment in the Oracle platform. We are currently reassessing our operating system and researching alternative, lower-cost solutions. Our business is subject to certain risks inherent to international operations. We operate in the United Kingdom. As a result, we are subject to a variety of risks, including: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • varying laws relating to, among other things, employment and employment termination; • the impact of a recession in the United Kingdom; • changes in regulatory requirements; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. These risks may materially and adversely affect our business results of operations or financial condition. Risks Relating To The Flexible Healthcare Staffing Market Demand for flexible staffing may fail to rise, remain at current levels or may decline for a variety of reasons, including general economic conditions. Although we anticipate that the market for flexible staffing in the healthcare sector will continue to expand, there can be no assurance that growth will occur at all or continue at historic rates or at the rate currently expected. Our growth could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including emphasis on permanent staff and minimization of the use of temporary staff by healthcare providers and automation or computerization of services traditionally performed by temporary staff providers. In the last few years, a U.K. case on agency workers indicated that agency workers could be considered employees of either the agency that places them or the customer end-user (and in many cases the customer is likely to be considered the employer). Consequently, some of the advantages to hospitals and other purchasers to using temporary workers may be lost because of the risk that they will be deemed to be the employer of such workers, and therefore they may decide to hire permanent staff rather than temporary staff. In addition, demand for flexible healthcare staffing services may be significantly affected by the general level of economic activity and economic conditions in the regions in which we operate. If demand for temporary staffing in the healthcare sector generally declines or does not increase at the rate we anticipate, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Fluctuations in patient occupancy at the hospitals, nursing homes and care homes of our customers may adversely affect the demand for our services and therefore our financial performance. Demand for our flexible healthcare staff is significantly affected by the general level of patient occupancy at the hospitals, nursing homes and care homes of our customers. When occupancy increases, temporary employees are often added before full-time employees are hired. As occupancy decreases, healthcare facility customers typically will reduce their use of temporary employees before undertaking layoffs of their regular employees. In addition, we may experience more competitive pricing pressure during periods of occupancy downturn. Occupancy at our healthcare customers’ facilities also fluctuates due to the seasonality of some elective procedures. We are unable to predict the level of patient occupancy at any particular time and its effect on our revenues and earnings. 14 Table of Contents We operate in a regulated industry and violations of laws or regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions that could impact our financial performance. Moreover, recent and proposed changes in U.K. regulations affecting flexible staffing companies may result in increased costs that reduce our revenue and profitability. Our business is subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations in the United Kingdom. These include, but are not limited to, laws and regulations related to licensing, conduct of operations, payment for services and referrals, benefits payable to temporary staffers and taxation. If we fail to comply with the laws and regulations that are applicable to our business, we could suffer civil and/or criminal penalties or we could be required to stop operating in one or more jurisdictions. Moreover, many political, economic and regulatory organizations are supporting fundamental change in the U.K. healthcare industry. The recent introduction of new regulatory provisions in the United Kingdom affecting flexible staffing companies could substantially raise the costs associated with operating our business. Some proposed changes in these regulations could have a similar effect. We may not be able to pass along to our customers the costs of implementing any changes that result from these new and changed laws and regulations. See ‘‘Item 1 — Business — Governmental Regulation’’ for a summary of the material existing and proposed regulations affecting our business. NHS reforms may have a substantial negative impact upon us. For our fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, 15% of our flexible healthcare gross margins was attributable to the NHS. Flexible staffing providers, such as our company, are subject to the risk that the NHS will continue to regulate the price it pays for temporary staff, reduce its use of temporary staff or replace its use of temporary staff where possible with permanent employees. One initiative undertaken by the NHS is the requirement that agencies wishing to supply it with temporary staff enter into Framework Agreements. It is likely that a long-term effect of the Framework Agreements will be to reduce the cost of commissions paid to healthcare staffing companies and/or to reduce the number of healthcare staffing companies supplying staff to the NHS. Another initiative undertaken by the NHS is its creation of NHS Professionals. NHS Professionals is an internal agency of the NHS that seeks to provide an efficient temporary staffing service for NHS hospitals. NHS Professionals seeks to coordinate nurse banks operated by NHS hospitals with the intention of maintaining quality standards and controlling cost across all NHS nurse banks. The continued expansion of the NHS Professionals could adversely affect our revenues in the future. The introduction and further extension of the NHS Framework Agreements has impacted our financial results by reducing our margins from that source of business. In addition, we have experienced reduced revenues from the NHS as a result of the NHS Framework Agreements, as well as from the efforts of the NHS to source more of its work by using NHS Professionals. Our ability to compete in the homecare services market depends on our ability to obtain assignments from local governmental social service departments. The largest providers of homecare services in the United Kingdom are local governmental social services departments and NHS Primary Care Trusts. Outsourcing of homecare by these bodies is the principal source of revenue and growth in the homecare staffing market. Though figures vary widely among local governments, homecare provided directly by the local governments typically is significantly more expensive per hour of care than homecare outsourced to independent homecare providers. While we believe there is potential for further outsourcing of homecare by local governments, this potential may be partially offset by tighter local governmental budgets. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will be chosen by local governmental social service departments to provide outsourced homecare services in the future, or that we will be able to recruit and retain homecare staff at hourly rates that local governments are willing to pay. Significant legal actions could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities. In recent years, healthcare providers have become subject to an increasing number of legal actions alleging medical malpractice, negligent hiring, product liability or other legal theories. Many of 15 Table of Contents these actions involve large claims and significant defense costs. In addition, we may be subject to civil or criminal claims arising from actions taken by our employees or temporary staffing personnel, such as misuse of proprietary information or theft of property. In some instances, we are required to indemnify customers against some or all of these risks. A failure of any of our employees or personnel to observe our policies and guidelines intended to reduce these risks, relevant customer policies and guidelines or applicable laws, rules and regulations could result in negative publicity, payment of fines or other damages. In addition, breaches of the Care Standards Act 2000 and associated regulations could result in the revocation of registration or the imposition of conditions on that registration that could adversely effect the continuation of our business in the United Kingdom. Litigation is costly and, even if we do prevail, the cost of such litigation could adversely affect our consolidated financial statements. In addition, in the course of our operations we may face possible claims by employees or employee candidates of discrimination or harassment (including for actions our customers or their employees may have taken), violations of health and safety regulations, workers compensation claims, retroactive entitlement to benefits and other similar claims. Our insurance may not be adequate to protect us from claims for which we may become liable. To protect ourselves from the cost of claims alleging medical malpractice or other causes of action, we maintain malpractice liability insurance and general liability insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations. While we have been able to obtain liability insurance in the past, this insurance varies in cost, is difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on terms acceptable to us, if it is available at all. The failure to maintain insurance coverage or a successful claim not covered by or in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, cash flows or results of operations. In addition, claims, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, may have a material adverse effect on our reputation. Risks Relating To Our Financial Condition We have generated substantial amounts of goodwill from our acquisitions, some or all of which we may be required to write off, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Goodwill represents the purchase price of an acquisition less the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired. We have generated substantial amounts of goodwill from our acquisitions. Part of our strategy involves making additional acquisitions. Because businesses of the type we target often do not have substantial tangible assets, we expect that our acquisition of these businesses will continue to generate significant amounts of goodwill. At September 30, 2006 we had goodwill of approximately $112.7 million, which equaled approximately 57.7% of our total assets at that date. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, ‘‘Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,’’ (‘‘FAS No. 142’’) issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, all goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are no longer subject to amortization, but will be subject to an annual impairment test. We evaluate, on a regular basis, whether events or circumstances have occurred that indicate all, or a portion, of the carrying amount of goodwill may no longer be recoverable, in which case an impairment charge to our earnings would become necessary. As of September 30, 2006, the carrying value of our goodwill was impaired by $121.9 million. We determined there was an impairment of $121.9 million to our recorded goodwill balance by using a combination of the market multiple, comparable transaction and discounted cash flow methods. Based on a combination of factors, contributing to the impairment loss were the decrease in profits due to the decline of revenues from the NHS, the transitioning from the old pharmacy based contracts to the new supply of oxygen direct to patients contracts that have lower margins, our company’s market capitalization at the time of testing as well as current and projected operating results. At September 30, 2006, we had $112.7 million of remaining goodwill and there can be no assurances that future goodwill impairment will not occur. 16 Table of Contents We have incurred significant debt, which could impact our financial condition and results of operations. In the event of a payment default under our senior credit facility, our lenders have the right, among others, to seize our assets. At September 30, 2006, we had approximately $71.2 million of debt under our senior credit facility. The level of our indebtedness will have several important effects on our future operations, including, without limitation: • we will use a portion of cash flow from operations for the payment of principal or interest due on outstanding indebtedness; • outstanding indebtedness and leverage will increase the impact of negative changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as competitive pressures; and • the level of outstanding debt may affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, additional acquisitions or general corporate purposes. General economic conditions, industry cycle and financial, business and other factors affecting operations, many of which are beyond our control, may affect future performance. As a result, these and other factors may affect our ability to make principal and interest payments on indebtedness. Our business might not continue to generate cash flow at or above current levels. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may, among other things: • seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; • refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; • sell selected assets; or • reduce or delay planned capital expenditures or acquisitions. These measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. In addition, any financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms or at all. If we are unable to repay our indebtedness when it becomes due, our lenders will have a number of remedies. Our senior credit facility is secured by substantially all of the assets of, and the shares in, our U.K. subsidiaries. If we fail to pay our debt under our senior credit facility, which amounted to $71.2 million at September 30, 2006, the lenders thereunder could become the owner of, or force the sale of, our businesses or subsidiaries. Our compliance with restrictions and covenants in our senior credit facility may limit our ability to take corporate actions and harm our business. Our senior credit facility contains a number of covenants that significantly restrict our operations, our ability to issue additional debt and our ability to pay dividends. Under these agreements we are also required to comply with specific financial ratios and tests, including a fixed charge coverage ratio, a test regarding debtor days (i.e., the number of days sales are outstanding) and an interest coverage ratio. We may not be able to comply in the future with these covenants or restrictions as a result of events beyond our control, such as prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If we default in the performance of the covenants in our senior credit facility, our lenders could, in addition to seizing the collateral securing our obligations, declare all of the principal and interest outstanding due and payable and terminate their commitments to extend credit to us in the future. We may refinance these agreements or seek alternative credit agreements. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to secure new credit agreements on favorable terms or at all. If we are unable to secure credit on commercially reasonable terms in the future, our business could be harmed. As of September 30, 2006, we were not in compliance with the covenant ratio of EBIT to interest expense that is contained in our senior credit facility. On December 8, 2006 we obtained a temporary waiver of such covenant from our lenders. As of September 30, 2006, we were in compliance with the remainder of the covenants in our senior credit facility. Subsequent to September 30, 2006, we have amended and restated our senior credit facility and reset our financial covenants. 17 Table of Contents Our lenders have limited the right of our U.K. subsidiaries to pay dividends to our company. At September 30, 2006, we had approximately $71.2 million of debt under our senior credit facility. Our subsidiaries pay us a management fee, with which we pay the expenses of our corporate headquarters and our executive officers. However, under the terms of our senior credit facility, our U.K. subsidiaries generally may not pay dividends. Therefore, we will not be able to use the cash flow or profits, if any, of our U.K. subsidiaries to finance acquisitions, capital expenditures or other initiatives. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforward in the future is limited. As of September 30, 2006, we had a U.S. federal net operating loss carryforward of approximately $76.3 million, expiring between 2018 and 2023. Our current operations are in the United Kingdom. Under U.S. federal tax law, we can only offset our federal net operating loss carryforward against U.S. taxable income, including income earned from operations in the United States and certain other income, including dividends from our U.K. subsidiaries. As of September 30, 2006, we had recorded a full valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset created by the U.S. federal net operating loss carryforward as we did not believe it was more likely than not that such losses would be utilized prior to their expiration. Our public offering in July 2004 of shares of our common stock caused an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Accordingly, Section 382 limits our ability to use our net operating loss carryforward in the future. An inability to use a significant portion of our federal net operating loss carryforward could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We face greater costs in complying with the increasing regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards. We are spending an increased amount of management time and external resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and Nasdaq Stock Market rules. In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control systems, and attestations of the effectiveness of these systems by both management and our independent auditors. This process for fiscal 2006 resulted in additional accounting and legal expenses. There can be no assurance that these additional expenses will not continue to impact our results of operations. Risks Relating To Our Common Stock Future sales of our common stock by existing shareholders may lower the price of our common stock. As of December 8, 2006, we had 44,957,492 shares of common stock outstanding. In addition, as of December 8, 2006, our officers, directors, employees and consultants own options to acquire an aggregate of 3,470,614 shares of common stock under our 1992 Stock Option Plan and our 2002 Stock Option Plan. Although we will not issue any more options under our 1992 Stock Option Plan, we may issue additional options under our 2002 Stock Option Plan. The shares of common stock to be issued upon exercise of the options granted under our 1992 Stock Option Plan and our 2002 Stock Option Plan have been registered and may be freely sold when issued. We have also issued warrants to purchase an aggregate of 350,000 shares of our common stock to a third party. We have granted the holder of these warrants certain ‘‘piggyback’’ registration rights with respect to the shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants. Pursuant to a registration statement that was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission in August 2002, we have registered the resale of an aggregate of 23,479,157 shares of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock into the public market could lower the market price of our common stock. 18 Table of Contents Because a small group of shareholders may control our common stock, other investors may have little or no control over our company or our management. As of December 8, 2006, the four Hyperion funds that are shareholders in our company collectively own approximately 26.6% of our outstanding shares of common stock and Washington & Congress Capital Partners, L.P. owns approximately 17.1% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, these shareholders acting together may be able to exercise control over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. If provisions in our corporate documents and New York law delay or prevent a change in control of our company, we may be unable to consummate a transaction that our shareholders consider favorable. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our shareholders may consider favorable. For example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to ten million shares of ‘‘blank check’’ preferred stock. Without shareholder approval, the board of directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to these shares of preferred stock. With these rights, preferred shareholders could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. New York law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. Under the employment agreements we have entered into with Timothy M. Aitken, our chief executive officer, and Sarah L. Eames, our executive vice president, we are required to pay Mr. Aitken an amount equal to 2.9 times his salary if his employment with us is terminated within six months of a change in control of our company and we are required to pay Ms. Eames an amount equal to 1.9 times her salary if her employment with us is terminated within six months of a change in control of our company. In addition, under our employment agreement with David Moffatt, our chief financial officer, we are required to pay him 12 months’ salary in the event he is terminated due to an acquisition. Such change of control payment may have the effect of preventing or delaying a change of control of our company, even if the change of control was favored by our shareholders. Our stock price may be volatile. In recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are often unrelated to the operating performance of specific companies. Our market price may fluctuate based on a number of factors, including: • our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; • news announcements relating to us, our industry or our competitors; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts; • changes in general economic conditions; • the number of shares that are publicly traded; • actions of our current shareholders; and • other developments affecting us, our industry or our competitors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 