Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to many risks that may negatively affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Risks Relating To Our Business And Strategy If we are unable to attract and retain healthcare staff at reasonable costs, it could increase our operating costs and negatively impact our business. We rely significantly on our ability to attract and retain homecare aides, nurses and nurses aides who possess the skills, experience and, if required, licenses necessary to meet the requirements of our customers. We compete for flexible healthcare staffing personnel with other flexible healthcare staffing companies and with hospitals and healthcare facilities. Staff choose to work for a temporary healthcare staffing company based on the quantity, diversity and quality of assignments offered and on compensation packages and other benefits. We must continually evaluate and upgrade our flexible 9 Table of Contents staffing network to keep pace with our customers’ needs and to remain competitive in our business. Currently, there is a shortage of homecare aides, nurses and nurses aides in most areas of the United Kingdom. Competition for such personnel is increasing and salaries and benefits have risen. We may be unable to continue to increase the number of healthcare staff that we recruit, decreasing the potential for growth of our business. Our ability to attract and retain healthcare staff depends on several factors, including our ability to provide them with assignments that they view as attractive and to provide them with competitive benefits and wages. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in any of these areas. The cost of attracting healthcare staff and providing them with attractive benefit packages may be higher than we anticipate and, as a result, if we are unable to pass these costs on to our customers, our profitability could decline. Moreover, if we are unable to attract and retain healthca re staff, our ability to provide adequate services to our customers may decline and, as a result, we could lose customers. We operate in a highly competitive market and our success depends on our ability to obtain and retain customers. The flexible healthcare staffing business is highly competitive. We compete in national, regional and local markets in the United Kingdom with full-service staffing companies, specialized flexible staffing agencies, NHS Professionals, hospitals, nursing homes and other home healthcare businesses. There are relatively few barriers to entry in the markets we serve and, historically, our industry has been highly fragmented. While we expect to continue to face competition from a broad range of companies, the recent consolidation trend in our industry is likely to result in an increase in the number of larger companies that are able to service regional or national markets. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition, access to capital and marketing, financial and other resources than we do. We believe that the primary competitive factors in obtaining and retaining customers are identifying qualified healthcare staff for specific job requirements, providing qualified staff in a timely manner, pricing services competitively and effectively monitoring job performance. Competition for customers may increase in the future and, as a result we may not be able to remain competitive. To the extent competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices or increasing marketing expenditures, we could lose revenues or hospital, healthcare facility and other customers and our margins could decline, which could harm our operating results. In addition, the development of alternative recruitment channels could lead our hospital, healthcare facility and other customers to bypass our services, which would also cause our revenues and margins to decline. A change in treatment of flexible staff for U.K. tax, employment and benefits purposes could result in increased costs. Like all employment businesses, we are exposed to potential employment related claims from independent contractors who assert that they are employees. We currently treat our nurses and nurses aides as independent contractors, but this position could change if challenged in an employment tribunal or court. Recent case law relating to agency workers has indicated that agency workers could be deemed to be the employee of either the agency that places them or the customer at which they are placed, depending on the circumstances. If our nurses and nurses aides are deemed to employees rather than independent contractors, they could become entitled to additional statutory rights (such as the right to a redundancy payment and the right not to be unfairly dismissed), which could result in an increase in litigation and/or severance payments. We could also become liable to pay employer’s national insurance contributions in respect of our nurses and nurses aides. As a consequence, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our decentralized structure could result in unforeseen costs and could adversely impact our business. We operate with a decentralized structure under which our branches operate on a relatively autonomous basis in terms of the recruitment and placement of staff and the marketing of customers. However, we generally maintain centralized management control in the areas of payroll, accounts receivable, contracts, pricing, regulatory matters, quality control and information technology. If we fail to exert proper centralized management control, our local branches could engage in unauthorized activities, our management initiatives may not be successfully implemented and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents The loss of key senior management personnel could adversely affect our ability to remain competitive. We rely heavily on our senior management team, led by Sarah L. Eames, our deputy chairman and interim chief executive officer, and David Moffatt, our chief financial officer. We have entered into an employment agreement with Ms. Eames that expires in April 2008, subject to automatic renewal for successive periods of one year each unless terminated by either party on 90 days’ notice prior to the then applicable renewal date. We entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Moffatt that does not have a fixed term that provides that either party may terminate the agreement upon six months’ written notice. The loss or unavailability for an extended period of time of either of these officers could have a material adverse effect on our operations and prospects. We are dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems. We are dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems in operating our business. Our operations have an IT disaster recovery plan. However, they are still vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins and similar events. If critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, these functions would have to be accomplished manually, which could temporarily impact our ability to identify business opportunities quickly, to maintain billing and clinical records reliably, to bill for services efficiently and to maintain our accounting and financial reporting effectively. In fiscal 2005 we implemented a computerized accounting and payroll system and in fiscal 2006 we implemented further changes to the system with the goal of improving the operating performance of our branches. However, we discovered that the system was too slow for the nature of our business and therefore was not achieving full functionality. We decided to abandon certain of the software features of the Oracle platform and not continue with the planned expansion as we believed the cost to have a workable model would exceed alternative solutions. During fiscal 2006, we recognized a pre-tax charge of $9.0 million on the write-off of our investment in the Oracle platform. We are currently in the process of comparing various operating systems in order to determine which system best supports our branch network and allows us to interface with our customers and communicate with our staff. Our business is subject to certain risks inherent to international operations. We operate in the United Kingdom. As a result, we are subject to a variety of risks, including: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • varying laws relating to, among other things, employment and employment termination; • the impact of a recession in the United Kingdom; • changes in regulatory requirements; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. These risks may materially and adversely affect our business results of operations or financial condition. Risks Relating To The Flexible Healthcare Staffing Market Demand for flexible staffing may fail to rise, remain at current levels or may decline for a variety of reasons, including general economic conditions. Although we anticipate that the market for flexible staffing in the healthcare sector will continue to expand, there can be no assurance that growth will occur at all or continue at historic rates or at the rate currently expected. Our growth could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including emphasis on permanent staff and minimization of the use of temporary staff by healthcare providers and automation or computerization of services traditionally performed by temporary staff providers. In the last few years, U.K. case law on agency workers has indicated that agency workers could be 11 Table of Contents deemed to be employees of either the agency that places them or the customer end-user in certain circumstances (although the recent trend of Employment Appeal Tribunal decisions has held this to be unlikely where the agency relationship is not a sham). Consequently, some of the advantages to hospitals and other purchasers to using temporary workers may be lost because of the risk that they will be deemed to be the employer of such workers, and therefore they may decide to hire permanent staff rather than temporary staff. In addition, demand for flexible healthcare staffing services may be significantly affected by the general level of economic activity and economic conditions in the regions in which we operate. If demand for temporary staffing in the healthcare sector generally declines or does not increase at the rate we anticipate, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Fluctuations in patient occupancy at the hospitals, nursing homes and care homes of our customers may adversely affect the demand for our services and therefore our financial performance. Demand for our flexible healthcare staff is significantly affected by the general level of patient occupancy at the hospitals, nursing homes and care homes of our customers. When occupancy increases, temporary employees are often added before full-time employees are hired. As occupancy decreases, healthcare facility customers typically will reduce their use of temporary employees before undertaking layoffs of their regular employees. In addition, we may experience more competitive pricing pressure during periods of occupancy downturn. Occupancy at our healthcare customers’ facilities also fluctuates due to the seasonality of some elective procedures. We are unable to predict the level of patient occupancy at any particular time and its effect on our revenues and earnings. We operate in a regulated industry and violations of laws or regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions that could impact our financial performance. Moreover, recent and proposed changes in U.K. regulations affecting flexible staffing companies may result in increased costs that reduce our revenue and profitability. Our business is subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations in the United Kingdom. These include, but are not limited to, laws and regulations related to licensing, conduct of operations, payment for services and referrals, benefits payable to temporary staffers and taxation. If we fail to comply with the laws and regulations that are applicable to our business, we could suffer civil and/or criminal penalties or we could be required to stop operating in one or more jurisdictions. Moreover, many political, economic and regulatory organizations are supporting fundamental change in the U.K. healthcare industry. The recent introduction of new regulatory provisions in the United Kingdom affecting flexible staffing companies could substantially raise the costs associated with operating our business. Some proposed changes in these regulations could have a similar effect. We may not be able to pass along to our customers the costs of implementing any changes that result from these new and changed laws and regulations. See ‘‘Item 1 — Business — Government Regulation’’ for a summary of the material existing and proposed regulations affecting our business. NHS reforms may have a substantial negative impact upon us. For our fiscal year ended September 30, 2007, 21.6% of our flexible healthcare gross margins was attributable to the NHS. Flexible staffing providers, such as our company, are subject to the risk that the NHS will continue to regulate the price it pays for temporary staff, reduce its use of temporary staff or replace its use of temporary staff where possible with permanent employees. One initiative undertaken by the NHS is the requirement that agencies wishing to supply the NHS with temporary staff enter into Framework Agreements. It is likely that a long-term effect of the Framework Agreements will be to reduce the cost of commissions paid to healthcare staffing companies and/or to reduce the number of healthcare staffing companies supplying staff to the NHS. Another initiative undertaken by the NHS is its creation of NHS Professionals. NHS Professionals is an internal agency of the NHS that seeks to provide an efficient temporary staffing 12 Table of Contents service for NHS hospitals. NHS Professionals seeks to coordinate nurse banks operated by NHS hospitals with the intention of maintaining quality standards and controlling costs across all NHS nurse banks. The continued expansion of the NHS Professionals could adversely affect our revenues in the future. The introduction and further extension of the NHS Framework Agreements has impacted our financial results by reducing our margins from that source of business. In addition, we have experienced reduced revenues from the NHS as a result of the NHS Framework Agreements, as well as from the efforts of the NHS to source more of its work by using NHS Professionals. Our ability to compete in the homecare services market depends on our ability to obtain assignments from local governmental social service departments. The largest providers of homecare services in the United Kingdom are local governmental social services departments and NHS Primary Care Trusts. Outsourcing of homecare by these bodies is the principal source of revenue and growth in the homecare staffing market. Though figures vary widely among local governments, homecare provided directly by the local governments typically is significantly more expensive per hour of care than homecare outsourced to independent homecare providers. While we believe there is potential for further outsourcing of homecare by local governments, this potential may be offset by tighter local governmental budgets or by policy changes or legislation. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will be chosen by local governmental social service departments, or other providers of homecare services, to provide outsourced homecare services in the future, or that we will be able to recruit and retain homecare staff at hourly rates that loca l governments are willing to pay. Significant legal actions could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities. In recent years, healthcare providers have become subject to an increasing number of legal actions alleging medical malpractice, negligent hiring, product liability or other legal theories. Many of these actions involve large claims and significant defense costs. In addition, we may be subject to civil or criminal claims arising from actions taken by our employees or temporary staffing personnel, such as misuse of proprietary information or theft of property. In some instances, we are required to indemnify customers against some or all of these risks. A failure of any of our employees or personnel to observe our policies and guidelines intended to reduce these risks, relevant customer policies and guidelines or applicable laws, rules and regulations could result in negative publicity, payment of fines or other damages. In addition, breaches of the Care Standards Act 2000 and associated regulations could result in the revocation of registration or the imposition of conditions on that registration that could adversely effect the continuation of our business in the United Kingdom. Litigation is costly and, even if we do prevail, the cost of such litigation could adversely affect our consolidated financial statements. In addition, in the course of our operations we may face possible claims by employees or employee candidates of discrimination or harassment (including for actions our customers or their employees may have taken), violations of health and safety regulations, workers compensation claims, retroactive entitlement to benefits and other similar claims. Our insurance may not be adequate to protect us from claims for which we may become liable. To protect ourselves from the cost of claims alleging medical malpractice or other causes of action, we maintain malpractice liability insurance and general liability insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations. While we have been able to obtain liability insurance in the past, this insurance varies in cost, is difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on terms acceptable to us, if it is available at all. The failure to maintain insurance coverage or a successful claim not covered by or in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, cash flows or results of operations. In addition, claims, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, may have a material adverse effect on our reputation. 13 Table of Contents Risks Relating To Our Financial Condition We have generated substantial amounts of goodwill from our acquisitions, some or all of which we may be required to write off, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Goodwill represents the purchase price of an acquisition less the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired. We have generated substantial amounts of goodwill from our acquisitions. Part of our strategy involves making additional acquisitions. Because businesses of the type we target often do not have substantial tangible assets, we expect that our acquisition of these businesses will continue to generate significant amounts of goodwill. At September 30, 2007 we had goodwill of approximately $122.8 million, which equaled approximately 48.6% of our total assets at that date. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, ‘‘Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets’’ (‘‘FAS No. 142’’) issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, all goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are no longer subject to amortization, but will be subject to an annual impairment test. We evaluate, on a regular basis, whether events or circumstances have occurred that indicate all, or a portion, of the carrying amount of goodwill may no longer be recoverable, in which case an impairment charge to our earnings would become necessary. As of September 30, 2007, the carry ing value of our goodwill was not impaired, based on an assessment performed in accordance with FAS No. 142. However, any future determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of the carrying value of our goodwill could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforward in the future is limited. As of September 30, 2007, we had a U.S. federal net operating loss carryforward of approximately $75.4 million, expiring between 2018 and 2024. Our current operations are in the United Kingdom. Under U.S. federal tax law, we can only offset our federal net operating loss carryforward against U.S. taxable income, including income earned from operations in the United States and certain other income, including dividends from our U.K. subsidiaries. As of September 30, 2007, we had recorded a full valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset created by the U.S. federal net operating loss carryforward as we did not believe it was more likely than not that such losses would be utilized prior to their expiration. Our public offering in July 2004 of shares of our common stock caused an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Accordingly, Section 382 limits our ability to use our ne t operating loss carryforward in the future. An inability to use a significant portion of our federal net operating loss carryforward could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating To Our Common Stock Future sales of our common stock by existing shareholders may lower the price of our common stock. As of December 3, 2007, we had 44,986,229 shares of common stock outstanding. In addition, as of December 3, 2007, our officers, directors, employees and consultants own options to acquire an aggregate of 2,976,614 shares of common stock under our 1992 Stock Option Plan and our 2002 Stock Option Plan. Although we will not issue any more options under our 1992 Stock Option Plan, we may issue additional options under our 2002 Stock Option Plan. The shares of common stock to be issued upon exercise of the options granted under our 1992 Stock Option Plan and our 2002 Stock Option Plan have been registered and may be freely sold when issued. We have also issued warrants to purchase an aggregate of 485,000 shares of our common stock to two third parties. We have granted the holder of these warrants certain ‘‘piggyback’’ registration rights with respect to the shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants. Pursuant to a registration statement that was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission in August 2002, we have registered the resale of an aggregate of 23,479,157 shares of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock into the public market could lower the market price of our common stock. 14 Table of Contents If provisions in our corporate documents and New York law delay or prevent a change in control of our company, we may be unable to consummate a transaction that our shareholders consider favorable. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our shareholders may consider favorable. For example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to ten million shares of ‘‘blank check’’ preferred stock. Without shareholder approval, the board of directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to these shares of preferred stock. With these rights, preferred shareholders could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. New York law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. Under the employment agreement that we have entered into with Sarah L. Eames, our deputy chairman and interim chief executive officer, we are required to pay Ms. Eames an amount equal to 1.9 times her salary if her employment with us is terminated within six months of a change in control of our company. In addition, under our employment agreement with David Moffatt, our chief financial officer, we are required to pay him 12 months’ salary in the event he is terminated due to an acquisition. Such change of control payment may have the effect of preventing or delaying a change of control of our company, even if the change of control was favored by our shareholders. Our stock price may be volatile. In recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are often unrelated to the operating performance of specific companies. Our market price may fluctuate based on a number of factors, including: • our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; • news announcements relating to us, our industry or our competitors; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts; • changes in general economic conditions; • the number of shares that are publicly traded; • actions of our current shareholders; and • other developments affecting us, our industry or our competitors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have not received, during the 180 days preceding the end of our 2007 fiscal year, any written comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that remain unresolved. 