Risk Factors — Our business may be constrained by the intellectual property rights of others, and we have been and are currently subject to claims of intellectual property infringement, which are costly and time-consuming to defend”. Competition We compete with other software vendors for customers at the retail level and in corporate accounts, and for access to distribution channels. Our two primary competitors are Microsoft and Adobe. We believe that Microsoft Office and Adobe Systems hold most of the global market for Graphics and Productivity software and for Digital Media software. We are the next largest provider of packaged Graphics and Productivity and Digital Media software in our target markets. We also compete with a number of smaller companies, such as Sonic Solutions, Nero, ArcSoft and Cyberlink, that target certain sectors of the packaged software market. Our Graphics and Productivity products provide features and technical capabilities that are generally comparable to higher-priced products offered by Microsoft and Adobe. Our Digital Media products offer leading edge technologies for DVD playback, authoring and video editing each supporting HD-DVD, Blu-ray and AVCHD formats, which addresses the growing needs of our most advanced customers as well as our OEM partners. We also compete for strategic relationships with OEMs, online services companies and other distributors. We believe we can provide distributors with attractive pricing, channel specific marketing and sales support, incentives and customized versions of our products and packaging. We believe tailored responses to distributors’ needs distinguishes us from our competition and will allow us to broaden our distribution network. Research and Development We have a research and development (R&D) team of approximately 460 software professionals, the majority of whom are located in our Taiwan office and our corporate headquarters in Ottawa, Canada. Following the acquisition of InterVideo in fiscal 2007, we now have a stronger concentration of development expertise focused on digital media innovations. Our R&D investments in the Graphics and Productivity product lines will remain focused on extending their core technologies to deliver compelling user experiences that meet the needs of today’s workflows and to reach users in new customer segments, new vertical markets, and new geographies. Our R&D investments in the Digital Media portfolio will focus on maintaining our technological leadership with leading-edge innovations that differentiate our offerings in the minds of end users and our OEM partners. The different levels of R&D investment for each of our two main product categories is a reflection of the relative maturity and growth potential of each sector. In all cases, our R&D focus will be on increasing the user enjoyment of our products by concentrating on usability: bringing the most frequently used features to the surface in order to make them more readily accessible and intuitive to users of all skill levels. 10 Table of Contents Our increased focus on usability is reflected in the enhancements we have made to many of our products. For example we have increased the inter-operability of our WordPerfect Office Suite productivity applications with their Microsoft and Adobe counterparts. A new interface has been inserted in Corel Painter Essentials that provides for easy digital painting and making paintings from photos. We have also modernized our interfaces in both CorelDRAW Graphics Suite X4 and Corel DESIGNER so that they are more intuitive. The integrated development teams have been collaborating on key projects and sharing best practices. The development teams have standardized development, localization and release processes to ensure our products make it to the market in the most efficient way. A new industry-leading and intuitive installation, setup and patching device is being leveraged across product lines. User focused design and usability processes developed for CorelDRAW and Corel Painter are being used in the development of other product lines. Finally, in-product marketing and product updates are now delivered via a cohesive common platform. Localization and geographic expansion remains core to our product strategy, providing users in emerging markets with software in their native language. We have now integrated our localization teams under a single point of leadership in order to maximize our efficiency for expanding our global reach. We have increased the level of languages provided across all product lines, including WinDVD, CorelDRAW Graphics Suite X4 and Video Studio, which are now offered in twenty-two, nineteen and thirteen languages, respectively. Finally, while our business is largely focused on desktop applications, we have taken steps to reflect the growing importance of the web to our users. Many of our products leverage a hybrid model, maximizing the value of both the desktop and on line environments. By providing users with a bridge between the two, we believe we can offer them an even better user experience. For example, CorelDRAW Graphics Suite users can collaborate and share design ideas online through our partnership with Conceptshare.com. Our partnership with Smilebox, enables Corel Media One Plus users to create personalized photo and video projects and share them on their favorite blog, social network or via email. Zazzle enables our users to take artwork created in Painter Essentials and send it to an online printing service where they can create canvases, mugs, t-shirts and other keepsakes-all from within the Corel application. These partnerships along with others such as KDDI, NetBlender, and WhatTheFont.com ensure that we provide our users with the benefits of both the desktop and Web based environments, providing them with a more rewarding user experience. We plan to expand our product offerings through the acquisition of proven products and technology and to employ our R&D efforts to improve the utility of those products and technology to both our existing and new customers. Our research and development expenses for our fiscal years ended November 30, 2006, 2007 and 2008 were $25.9 million, $46.4 million and $44.5 million, respectively. Employees As of November 30, 2008, we had approximately 1,040 full-time employees, a reduction of 70 from our level as of November 30, 2007, due largely to restructuring activities completed in September of 2008. The total consists of 310 employees engaged in sales and marketing, 460 engaged in research and development and the remaining 270 engaged in general administration, finance and customer support. As of November 30, 2008, we have employees in 22 countries, including approximately 430 employees in our North American operations, 90 employees in EMEA, and 520 employees in APAC. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, and sales and marketing personnel. Competition for employees is intense in the software industry. To date, we believe we have been successful in our efforts to recruit qualified employees, but there is a risk that we will not continue to be successful in the future. None of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Management believes relations with employees are good. 11 Table of Contents Financial Information by Business Segment and Geographic Data We operate in one business segment, the packaged software segment. For information regarding our geographic data, please refer to Note 19 — Segment Reporting of our Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements found in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Available Information Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on the SEC Web site at http://www.sec.gov and on our Investor Relations Web site at http://www.corel.com. We make our filings available as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information posted on our Web site is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K unless otherwise noted. 12 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to our Business The recent disruption in the overall economy and the financial markets will adversely impact our business. Many industries, including businesses providing packaged software solutions, have been affected by current economic factors, including the significant deterioration of global economic conditions, declines in employment levels, and shifts in consumer spending patterns. The recent disruptions in the overall economy and volatility in the financial markets have greatly reduced, and may continue to reduce, consumer confidence in the economy, negatively affecting consumer spending, which could be harmful to our financial position. Disruptions in the overall economy may also lead to a lower collection rate on billings as consumers or businesses are unable to pay their bills in a timely fashion. Decreased cash flow generated from our products may adversely affect our financial position and our ability to fund our operations. In addition, macro economic disruptions, as well as the restructuring of various commercial and investment banking organizations, could adversely affect our ability to access the credit markets. The disruption in the credit markets may also adversely affect the availability of financing to support our strategy for growth through future acquisitions. There is a risk that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will not restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets, or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. We are subject to restrictive debt covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on our operations and could limit our ability to grow our business. Covenants contained in our debt facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions prohibit or limit, among other things, our incurrence of additional indebtedness, acquisitions, asset sales and the creation of certain types of liens. As part of our current term loan agreement, we are permitted to make acquisitions up to an aggregate consideration of $300.0 million, provided that the aggregate consideration consisting of cash and indebtedness assumed or incurred in connection with acquisition does not exceed $200.0 million over the term of the credit facilities. For amounts exceeding that amount, we are required to seek the consent of our lenders. These restrictions could limit our ability to pursue acquisitions, withstand downturns in our business, or take advantage of business and tax planning opportunities. Furthermore, our debt facilities require us to maintain specified financial ratios and to satisfy specified financial condition tests, and under certain circumstances require us to make annual mandatory prepayments with a portion of our available cash. As of November 30, 2008 we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants. However, our ability to comply with these ratios or tests may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions and there is a risk we will not be in compliance in the future. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate depending on the timing and success of product releases, which may result in volatility of our stock price. Our products generally have release cycles of between 12 and 24 months, and we typically earn the largest portion of revenues for a particular product during the first half of its release cycle. If new versions of our software do not achieve widespread market acceptance, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Because the timing and success of new product and product upgrade releases have a significant impact on our revenues and expenses and release dates do not conform to a fiscal year cycle, it is difficult to discern meaningful trends in our business by comparing our financial results for any two fiscal quarters. Due to the impact of releases of new products and versions, our future operating results and stock price may be subject to significant volatility, particularly on a quarterly basis. Any delays or failures in developing enhancements and marketing our new versions of our products or product upgrades may have a harmful impact on our results of operations. 13 Table of Contents The long-term trend in our business reflects growth in revenues from acquisitions and not our existing products and that growth through acquisitions may not be representative of future growth. Although our financial results have improved since our acquisition by Vector Capital, a significant portion of that improvement resulted from our implementation of cost reduction initiatives, including a significant reduction in our workforce, as well as additional revenue we obtained primarily through the sale of products acquired through acquisitions. Because our products and markets are relatively mature, and since our strategy does not include internal development of new product lines, our prospects for offsetting declining organic revenues in mature products and for future growth are highly dependent on our ability to complete acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies. Recent increases in our revenues are primarily attributable to the inclusion of InterVideo revenues beginning with our fiscal 2007 results. Our reliance on acquisitions as a primary means of achieving future growth involves a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. For example, the purchase price for acquisitions will depend significantly on overall market conditions, the degree of competition from other strategic or financial buyers and the availability of attractive acquisition candidates with complementary products or services. In addition, we may need debt or equity financing to pay for acquisitions, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all, particularly after the tightening in the credit market in fiscal 2008. Our ability to use our common shares as currency to pay for acquisitions will depend on the trading price of our common shares, which may be volatile as demonstrated during the final quarter of fiscal 2008, when our share price declined from a high closing price of $10.15 per share to a low closing price of $4.23 per share. If we cannot successfully execute our acquisition strategy our growth will be constrained and the value of our common shares could decline. We have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions that give rise to risks and challenges that could adversely affect our future financial results. We have in the past acquired, and we expect to acquire in the future, other businesses, business units, and technologies. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks and challenges, including: • Complexity, time, and costs associated with the integration of acquired business operations, workforce, products, and technologies into our existing business, sales force, employee base, product lines, and technology; • Diversion of management time and attention from our existing business and other business opportunities; • Loss or termination of employees, including costs associated with the termination or replacement of those employees; • Assumption of debt or other liabilities of the acquired business, including litigation related to alleged liabilities of the acquired business; • The risk that key customers and business relationships of the acquired company may not be maximized; • The incurrence of additional acquisition-related debt as well as increased expenses and working capital requirements; • Dilution of stock ownership of existing stockholders, or earnings per share; • Increased costs and efforts in connection with compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“SOX”) and the risk that the acquired company may not be SOX compliant which may in-turn cause us to be non-compliant; and • Substantial accounting charges for restructuring and related expenses, write-off of in-process research and development, impairment of goodwill, amortization of intangible assets, and stock-based compensation expense. 14 Table of Contents Integrating acquired businesses has been and will continue to be a complex, time consuming, and expensive process, and can impact the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or undergo other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. To integrate acquired businesses, we must implement our technology systems in the acquired operations and integrate and manage the personnel of the acquired operations. We also must effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired business organizations into our own in a way that aligns various interests, and may need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in those markets have stronger market positions. Any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from acquired businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. In addition, because acquisitions of technology companies are inherently risky, there is a risk that our previous or future acquisitions will not be successful and will adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business could be harmed. Our strategy is to maximize value by achieving growth both organically and through acquisitions. Our ability to effectively manage and control any future growth may be limited. To manage any growth, our management must continue to improve our operational, information and financial systems, procedures and controls and expand, train, retain and manage our employees. If our systems, procedures and controls are inadequate to support our operations, any expansion could decrease or stop, and investors may lose confidence in our operations or financial results. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, our business and operating results could be adversely affected, and any failure to develop and maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting could cause the trading price of our shares to decline substantially. Our core products compete with products offered by Microsoft and Adobe, which have dominant market positions and other significant competitive advantages. Our WordPerfect Suite competes with Microsoft Office which has the majority of the global market for office suite software. In addition, our Digital Media products compete with similar products offered by Adobe, which has the majority of the global packaged Digital Media software markets in which we compete. It is extremely difficult for us to increase our market share among existing software users because they tend to have high levels of brand loyalty due to the actual or perceived cost, time and effort required to transition existing files and learn how to use new software. The existence of these dominant brands also makes it more difficult for us to attract first-time software buyers because Microsoft and Adobe can offer ubiquitous products that enable file sharing with other users of their respective products without compatibility concerns. In addition to having dominant market positions, Microsoft and Adobe enjoy a number of other competitive advantages that result from having large scale operations, leading brand identities and significantly greater financial and other resources than we do. These advantages include, among others: • sales and marketing advantages; • advantages in the recruitment and retention of skilled technical personnel; • advantages in the establishment and negotiation of profitable strategic, distribution and customer relationships; • advantages in the development and acquisition of innovative software technology and the acquisition of software companies; • greater ability to pursue larger scale product development and distribution initiatives on a global basis; and • operational advantages. 15 Table of Contents Because we generally rely on having lower prices than Microsoft and Adobe to attract customers, to the extent Microsoft and/or Adobe were to offer products comparable to ours at a similar price, our revenues would decline and our business would be harmed. Our prices may decline, which could harm our operating results. We believe that a variety of factors in the current market could contribute to the risk that prices and our gross margins will decrease in future fiscal quarters. For example, as our customers continue to assess their business strategies and their budgets for our or our competitors product offerings, we may feel additional pressure to lower our prices. Our success depends on our ability to offer products that are highly compatible with products offered by Microsoft and Adobe. Software users often share files, making it critical that our products remain compatible with products that have dominant market positions. To make our products compatible with products offered by Microsoft, Adobe and others, we often rely on technical information provided to us through informal cooperative arrangements. We have no contractual right to receive this technical information, and if these competitors are unwilling to provide it to us, we may be unable to continue to provide products that are compatible with their products. Although we have been able to achieve a high level of compatibility with Microsoft products in the past, it is often impossible for us to achieve the same level of functionality and performance as Microsoft’s products because its products benefit from technology embedded in the Microsoft Windows operating system and other Microsoft software applications, which places us at a competitive disadvantage. Since it is often technically impossible for us to develop products that are compatible in all respects with the leading brands, there is also a risk that any non-compatible features will be criticized in the market and damage our reputation. If our products are not sufficiently compatible or are not perceived to be compatible with the leading brands for any reason, we would lose a key element of our value proposition and our revenues and results of operations would be adversely affected. We rely on relationships with a small number of companies for a significant percentage of our revenues, and if any of these companies terminates its relationship with us, our revenues could decline. In our fiscal year ended November 30, 2008, we derived a substantial amount of our revenues from our relationship with PC OEM manufacturers. To the extent our relationships with one or more of these large OEMs are interrupted or terminated for any reason, our revenues may decline. In addition, our agreements with these companies only provide a general framework governing our relationships. These agreements do not contain any exclusivity provisions, and these companies have no obligation to purchase a minimum quantity of our products, promote our products or continue distributing our products. Each of these companies also distributes the products of our direct competitors. Accordingly, these companies may stop distributing our products, they may feature competitive products more prominently or they may fail to effectively promote the sale of our products to their customers, which would harm our competitive position and operating results. Because there are a small number of large PC OEMs, we only have a limited number of potential new large OEM customers, which will cause revenue to grow at a slower rate. At present, we distribute a number of our products bundled with product offerings of OEMs such as Hewlett Packard, Lenovo, Sony, NEC, Toshiba Acer and ASUS. There are comparatively few large-scale OEMs. Our reliance on this sales channel involves many risks, including: • we lack control over the shipping dates or volume of systems shipped by OEMs; • our OEM partners are generally not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our products to their customers; 16 Table of Contents • our OEM partners may terminate or renegotiate their arrangements with us and new terms may be less favorable due, among other things, to an increasingly competitive relationship with certain partners; • sales through our OEM partners are subject to changes in strategic direction, competitive risks, and other issues that could result in a reduction of OEM sales; • the development work that we must generally undertake under our agreements with our OEM partners may require us to invest significant resources and incur significant costs with little or no associated revenues; • the time and expense required for the sales and marketing organizations of our OEM partners to become familiar with our products may make it more difficult to introduce those products to the market; • our OEM partners may develop, market, and distribute their own products and market and distribute products of our competitors, which could reduce our sales; and • we rely on these OEM partners to self report license revenues payable to us based on their product sales. If the revenues from these reports are understated we could receive significantly less cash than we are entitled. Slow growth, or negative growth, in the PC industry could reduce demand for our product, and reduce gross profit. Our revenue depends in large part on the demand for our products by OEMs. The PC industry has experienced slow or negative growth in the recent past due to general economic slowdowns, market saturation and other factors. If slow growth in the PC industry continues or negative growth occurs, demand for our products may decrease. Furthermore, if a reduction in demand for our products occurs, we may not be able to reduce expenses commensurately, due in part to the continuing need for research and development. Accordingly, continued slow growth or negative growth in the PC industry could reduce our gross profit. If we fail to maintain strong relationships with our resellers and distributors, our ability to successfully deploy and sell our products may be harmed. We primarily market our product offerings through resellers (such as Office Depot and Best Buy) and distributors (such as Ingram Micro). We focus our efforts on larger distributors, which has resulted in our dependence on a relatively small number of distributors licensing a large amount of our products. Our distributors also sell our competitors’ products, and if they favor our competitors’ products for any reason, they may fail to market our products as effectively or to devote resources necessary to provide effective sales, which would cause our results to suffer. In addition, the financial health of these distributors and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success. Some of these distributors may be unable to withstand adverse changes in business conditions. Our business could be seriously harmed if the financial condition of some of these distributors substantially weakens, as demonstrated in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 with the bankruptcy of one of our major customers. Our business may be constrained by the intellectual property rights of others, and we have been and are currently subject to claims of intellectual property infringement, which are costly and time-consuming to defend. The software industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights, and by frequent litigation based upon allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We may be constrained by the intellectual property rights of others. We are currently a defendant in a lawsuit alleging intellectual property infringement, and we may again in the future have to defend against intellectual property lawsuits. See “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings”. We may not prevail in our current or future intellectual property litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in litigation. We have in the past and expect that we will in the future receive correspondence alleging that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Any claims, regardless of their merit, could be 17 Table of Contents time-consuming and distracting to management, result in costly litigation or settlement, cause product development or release delays or require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements. In addition, some of our agreements with customers and distributors, including OEMs and online services companies, require us to indemnify these parties for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, and many of these indemnification obligations are not subject to monetary limits. The existence of these indemnification provisions could increase our cost of litigation and could significantly increase our exposure to losses from an adverse ruling. Changes to the royalties we pay to third parties, or the requirement to pay other amounts in respect of third party intellectual property, could adversely effect our margins and profitability. Our products, in particular our Digital Media applications, are sold subject to significant royalties which we pay to third parties, including third parties who hold patents and other intellectual property rights which purport to cover the technology contained within our products. These third parties could, from time to time, increase the royalties we are charged which could adversely effect our margins and profits. In addition, our products could become subject to the payment of additional royalties to other third parties which could also adversely affect our margins and profits. See prior risk factor — “Our business may be constrained by the intellectual property rights of others, and we have been and are currently subject to claims of intellectual property infringement, which are costly and time-consuming to defend”. Our success depends on our ability to adequately prevent piracy of the proprietary content owned by others which is accessed by customers through the use of our products. Our products allow our customers to use or display proprietary content owned by third parties, such as our customers’ use of our WinDVD product to play movies owned by various movie studios and production companies. Individuals who are sophisticated in the field of DVD technology and encryption have made use of our products to bypass security measures implemented by movie studios, hardware and software manufacturers (the “Advanced Access Content System” or “AACS Security Protocol”) and pirate the proprietary content, thereby making it available to others who can then view the content without paying the required fees to the content owners or their agents. While we continuously update the security of our products to prevent such occurrences, there is a risk that those breaches will occur in the future. The use of our products to improperly access proprietary third party content, and our requirement to update our software to correct any deficiencies, could harm our reputation with third party content providers and our customers. In some circumstances, it could also expose us to litigation and/or the requirement to compensate the owners of the proprietary content which is pirated. Further, repeated deficiencies of this type in our products could cause the AACS licensing authority to terminate our AACS license which allows us to participate in the AACS Security Protocol, a prerequisite for our products to be able to play high definition DVD content distributed by some movie studios and production companies. The loss of our AACS license would make our WinDVD product less attractive to some of our important OEM customers, upon whom we rely for a significant amount of our revenue. Accordingly, our failure to adequately protect proprietary third party content could cause us to lose customers and potentially expose us to having to pay compensation to content owners, either of which would harm our business. We may be unable to maintain licenses to third-party technology that is integrated into our products. We integrate third-party technology into our software products. Although we are not currently reliant on any technology license agreement from a single third party, if we were to lose our rights to technology licensed to us by several third parties, our business could be significantly disrupted, particularly if the technology subject to those agreements was either no longer available to us or no longer offered on commercially reasonable terms. In either case, if we are unable to redesign our software to function without this third-party technology or to obtain or internally develop similar technology, we might be forced to limit the features available in our current or future products. 18 Table of Contents Our success depends heavily on our ability to adequately protect our intellectual property. We depend upon our ability to protect our technology. Our means of protecting our intellectual property may not be adequate to prevent others from misappropriating or otherwise obtaining and using information that we regard as proprietary. Any of our patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. We may be unable to obtain effective patent or trademark protection in the future. Policing unauthorized use of our software is difficult and costly, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the U.S. and Canada. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. We have placed source code for our software in escrow, and this source code may, under certain circumstances, be made available to certain of our customers, distributors or OEMs. We also work with translators, localizers and independent software developers, and these third parties have access to proprietary information relating to our technology. While we have entered into confidentiality and non-competition agreements with these third parties and their employees, these arrangements could increase the ease or likelihood of potential misappropriation or other misuse of our intellectual property. Further, our software products contain open source software code licensed to us under various open source licenses. We rely in part on third parties to develop our software and may not be able to verify whether the components developed by these third parties contain additional open source code. Open source code may impose limitations on our ability to sell our products because, among other reasons, open source license terms may result in unanticipated obligations regarding our products and the disclosure of underlying derivative source code, and open source software cannot be protected under trade secret law. Our substantial indebtedness could affect our financing options and liquidity. As of November 30, 2008, we had approximately $156.4 million of total debt outstanding and an unused $69.4 million revolving credit facility. Our indebtedness is secured by substantially all of our assets and could have important consequences to our business or the holders of our common shares, including: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions; • requiring a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of the principal of and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available for other purposes; • making us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limiting our ability to withstand competitive pressures; and • making it more difficult to pay dividends on our common shares, if we decide to do so. In addition, because some of our debt bears interest at variable rates, we are subject to interest rate risk in the event interest rates increase at a faster pace and/or to higher levels than we have experienced in recent periods. See “Item 7A — Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk — Interest Rate Risk.” The packaged software industry is subject to rapid technological change, and if we fail to respond to dynamic market forces, our position within the industry will be harmed. The packaged software industry is characterized by rapid technological change. If our competitors are able to develop innovative new features or functionality that we are unable to replicate or if we experience delays in providing competing features or functionality, our business may suffer. Moreover, we devote the majority of our research and development efforts toward enhancing our existing product lines rather than pursuing the development of new applications. If our competitors are able to make significant innovative improvements to their products or develop new products with substantially enhanced capabilities, our products may become obsolete or our value proposition may become less attractive. 19 Table of Contents We face significant competitive threats from companies that may offer competitive software products at little or no cost to consumers to increase their market presence and user base. Large online services companies are constantly seeking new ways to drive Internet traffic to their websites and increase their user bases, such as Google’s Picasa, Docs, and SketchUp, which compete against some of our digital media and productivity products. Because these companies primarily earn revenues through the sale of advertising or the collection of subscription fees, they are often willing to provide free or low cost products and services to their users to increase usage of their core services. The manner in which packaged software is distributed is changing rapidly, which presents challenges to established software companies such as us and presents opportunities for potential competitors. Traditionally, most consumer software has been sold as a separate stand-alone item through retail vendors. Increasingly, software products are being bundled with hardware or online services and sold directly by the OEMs and online services companies. Although we have relationships to bundle our software with some hardware and online services providers, if we are not successful in maintaining these relationships and with forging distribution arrangements with digital camera manufacturers or additional participants in all the markets we serve, our competitors may gain a significant competitive advantage. We generally receive significantly lower prices for software that is bundled with hardware or services than we receive for physically packaged software. In the case of software bundled with hardware, we generally bundle lower functionality versions of our software and provide the opportunity for users to upgrade to more full-featured versions. Accordingly, even if we are successful in expanding our relationships with OEMs, our revenues may decline to the extent purchasers through these channels do not purchase our software through the retail channel or elect not to purchase our software upgrades. The increasing percentage of packaged software distributed by OEMs and over the Internet presents a number of challenges and competitive threats. We currently distribute a substantial portion of our products in retail locations around the world and view our retail distribution network as a competitive strength. To the extent that retail software distribution represents a diminishing percentage of total software sales, the relative benefits of our retail network will decline. A declining percentage of our sales have been derived from our retail distribution channel, and we expect this trend to continue. If in the future we need to reduce the size or scope of our retail distribution network, we will likely incur significant restructuring charges which would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, competitors such as Microsoft, increasingly are incorporating additional functionality into the Windows operating system at no additional cost which could render some or all of our products obsolete. With the growth in the Internet as a medium to download and purchase software, we expect to face increasing competition from smaller software providers. The increasing popularity of the Internet as a medium to purchase software is enabling smaller software providers to distribute products with minimal upfront costs or resources. In the past, a substantial barrier to entry into the packaged software market for small-scale providers has been the need to manufacture, package and distribute software through a retail or commercial distribution chain. To the extent consumers increasingly purchase software over the Internet, we expect to face increased competition from small software development companies and programmers worldwide. Online software distribution has certain inherent advantages over physically packaged software, such as the reduction or elimination of manufacturing, packaging, shipping and inventory costs. New entrants that have business models focused on Internet distribution may have more favorable cost structures than companies such as ours that employ a multi-channel distribution network, which could give those competitors cost savings, pricing and profitability advantages. 20 Table of Contents Open source software and open standards may make us more vulnerable to competition because new market entrants and existing competitors could introduce similar products quickly and cheaply. Open source refers to the free sharing of software code used to build applications in the software development community. Individual programmers may modify and create derivative works and distribute them at no cost to the end user. To the extent that open source software is developed that has the same or similar functionality as our products, demand for our software may decline, we may have to reduce the prices we charge for our products and our results of operations may be negatively affected. In addition, there is continuing pressure on the software industry to adopt standardized file formats. Microsoft recently released the specifications for one file format which has been implemented in its next generation office suite. While we generally support the adoption of open standards, this change may make it easier for other software companies to produce productivity software that is compatible with Microsoft Office. In the past we have been one of a small group of companies that offer productivity software that directly competes with Microsoft Office applications and is also compatible with those applications. If the proposed Microsoft Office open file format, or any other open file format, becomes the industry accepted standard, we could lose a key competitive advantage. Our products are complex and may contain errors or defects resulting from such complexity. The software products we develop and the associated professional services we offer are complex and must meet stringent technical requirements of our customers. We must develop our products quickly to keep pace with the rapidly changing software market. Our software products and services may contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. Failure to achieve acceptance could result in a delay in, or inability to, receive payment. Our products may not be free from errors or defects after commercial shipments have begun, which could result in the rejection of our products and damage to our reputation, as well as lost revenues, diverted development resources, increased service and warranty costs and related litigation expenses and potential liability to third parties, any of which could harm our business. An interruption of our supply of certain products or key components from our sole source supplier, or a price increase in those products or components, could hurt our business. We have chosen to outsource the manufacturing and distribution of many of our desktop software products to ModusLink, a third party provider. Although our reliance on a single supplier provides us with efficiencies and enhanced bargaining power, poor performance by or lack of effective communication with this contractor can significantly harm our financial condition and results of operations. This risk is amplified by the fact that we carry very little inventory and rely on just-in-time manufacturing processes. If we do not provide acceptable customer support, our reputation will suffer and it will be difficult to retain existing customers or to acquire new customers. The effectiveness of our customer service and technical support operations are critical to customer satisfaction and our financial success. If we do not respond effectively to service and technical support requests we will lose customers and miss revenue opportunities, such as product renewals and new product sales. We occasionally experience customer service and technical support problems, including longer than expected waiting times for customers when our staffing and systems are inadequate to handle a higher-than-anticipated volume of requests. If we do not adequately train our support representatives, our customers may not receive an appropriate level of support, we could lose customers and our financial results could suffer. 21 Table of Contents We are subject to risks associated with international operations that may harm our business. In our fiscal year ended November 30, 2008, we derived approximately 51.9% of our total revenues from sales to customers outside of the Americas. Our international operations subject us to a number of risks, challenges and uncertainties, including the following: • foreign currency fluctuations; • increased software piracy and uncertainty with respect to the enforcement of intellectual property rights; • international economic and political conditions; • labor and employment laws, particularly in Europe, which make it difficult to maintain flexible staffing levels; • tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions; • difficulties and expenses in localizing our products, particularly in Asian markets; • difficulties inherent in staffing and managing foreign operations; and • the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws. In addition, because increasing the scope of our operations in emerging economies, such as China, India, Eastern Europe and Latin America, is a key element of our growth strategy, we expect that our exposure to the risks and uncertainties described above will increase in the future. As a global business, we have a relatively complex tax structure, and there is a risk that tax authorities will disagree with our tax positions. We have tax losses carried forward available to offset future taxable income of $90.6 million as of November 30, 2008. Approximately 51% of our tax losses are in Canada. Under Canadian tax rules, we can only use losses to offset future taxable income from the same business or a business that is similar to the one that incurred the losses. While our Canadian losses are not subject to any annual deduction limitations, all of our losses expire between the tax years 2009 through 2028. Of the tax losses carried forward available to us, approximately C$51.0 million will expire in fiscal 2009. As of November 30, 2008, we also had approximately $155.4 million of tax depreciation in Canada that would be available to offset taxable income in future years. We have not recorded a financial statement benefit for these attributes. We have not been subject to a tax audit or review for the 2006, 2007 and 2008 tax years, and while we believe that our tax assets have been appropriately determined, there is a risk that, in the event of an audit, the tax authorities would not agree with our position. Since we conduct operations worldwide through our foreign subsidiaries, we are subject to complex transfer pricing regulations in the countries in which we operate. Transfer pricing regulations generally require that, for tax purposes, transactions between us and our foreign affiliates be priced on a basis that would be comparable to an arm’s length transaction and that contemporaneous documentation be maintained to support the tax allocation. Although uniform transfer pricing standards are emerging in many of the countries in which we operate, there is still a relatively high degree of uncertainty and inherent subjectivity in complying with these rules. To the extent Canadian or any foreign tax authorities disagree with our transfer pricing policies, we could become subject to significant tax liabilities and penalties. The Company’s tax returns are subject to review by taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Although we believe that we have provided for all tax exposures, the ultimate outcome of a tax review could differ materially from our provisions. The Minister of Revenue of Ontario issued a material reassessment in respect to our 2000 through 2002 taxation years. See note 12 of our financial statements, included in Item 8 of this Annual Form 10-K. The taxes we owe for our WinZip business are based in part on maintaining substantial business operations in an overseas jurisdiction, which has favorable tax laws. If tax authorities determined that we did 22 Table of Contents not maintain business operations in this jurisdiction sufficient to remain subject to these tax provisions, our effective tax rate would increase, and we could become subject to significant tax liabilities, penalties and interest. Impairment of our intangible assets could result in significant charges that would adversely impact our future operating results. We have significant intangible assets, including goodwill with an indefinite life, which are susceptible to valuation adjustments as a result of changes in various factors or conditions. The most significant intangible assets on our balance sheet are the technologies, customer relationships and trademarks we acquired with InterVideo and WinZip, Customer relationships are amortized on an accelerated basis based upon the pattern in which the economic benefits of customer relationships are being utilized. Other identifiable intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. We assess the potential impairment of goodwill on an annual basis, as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We assess definite lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that could trigger an impairment of such assets include the following: • significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; • significant changes in the manner of or use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; • significant negative industry or economic trends; • significant decline in our stock price for a sustained period; • changes in our organization or management reporting structure could result in additional reporting units, which may require alternative methods of estimating fair values or greater desegregation or aggregation in our analysis by reporting unit; and • a decline in our market capitalization below net book value. As of November 30, 2008, we had identified intangible assets with a carrying value in our financial statements of $67.0 million, all of which are definite-lived, and goodwill of $82.3 million. At November 30, 2008, given the current disruption and uncertainty in the global economy, our significant decrease in our stock price over the last fiscal quarter, and our revenues being slightly lower then projected, we determined that the appropriate triggers had been reached for an impairment test of all our intangible assets. We performed asset recoverability tests and determined that there has been no impairment of our definite lived intangible assets. Furthermore, we compared our carrying value of goodwill to the fair value of the associated reporting unit, the Company, and determined that there has been no impairment of our goodwill. Further adverse changes in our operations or other unforeseeable factors could result in an impairment charge in future periods that would impact our results of operations and financial position in that period. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Because we have international subsidiaries and distributors that operate and sell our products outside the United States, we are exposed to the risk of changes in foreign currency exchange rates or declining economic conditions in these countries. With our increased international presence in a number of geographic locations and with international revenue and costs projected to increase, we are exposed to changes in foreign currencies including the Euro, British Pound, Canadian Dollar, Japanese Yen, and the Taiwanese Dollar. Changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the value of the U.S. dollar could adversely affect future revenue, future operating expenses and operating results. 23 Table of Contents We are potentially exposed to default risk on our interest rate swaps and our line of credit, and there are limitations on our ability to draw on that line of credit. As of November 30, 2008, we had $134.5 million of interest rate swaps which convert an aggregate notional principal amount of $134.5 million (or approximately 86% of our interest-bearing debt) from floating rate interest payments under our term loan facility to fixed interest rate obligations. These swaps protect us against the risk of adverse fluctuations in the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR). Given the current economic disruptions and the restructuring of various commercial financing organizations, there is a risk of counter-party default on these items. Currently, our exposure to default risk on our interest rate swap agreements is minimal as we are currently in a liability position on all interest rate swaps. However, if the LIBOR rates were to significantly increase, there is a risk that one or more counterparties may be unable to meet its obligations under the swap agreement. We also have a line of credit with $75.0 million available to us under our term loan agreement to fund operating and investing activities. However, it is unlikely that we will be able to draw down the full line of credit of $75.0 million position due to debt covenants. Currently, we believe we are in a position to make draws of approximately $40.0 million based on our current financial position at November 30, 2008, without violating our current debt covenants. There is a risk that maximum draw could be less in the future depending on our operating results. Furthermore, our lender may not be able to honor their line of credit commitment, which could lead to us seeking financing in a credit market that is becoming less accessible. This could adversely impact our ability to fund some of our internal initiatives or future acquisitions. Risks Related to an Investment in our Common Shares Our common share price is likely to be volatile. The market price of our common shares may be volatile in response to a number of events, including: • our quarterly operating results; • sales of our common shares by principal shareholders; • small trading volumes and small public float; • future announcements concerning our or our competitors’ businesses; • changes in financial forecasts and recommendations by securities analysts or the termination of coverage by one or more securities analysts; • actions of our competitors; • general market conditions, economic conditions including the recent downturn, and political conditions; • natural disasters, terrorist attacks and acts of war; and • the other risks described in this section. Vector Capital has significant control over our business and an investor may not have the same corporate governance protections investors would have if we were not a controlled company. Vector Capital owns approximately 68% of our outstanding common shares. As a result, Vector Capital has the ability to influence our business, policies and affairs and has the ability to control the outcome of all elections of directors and any shareholder vote regarding a merger, other extraordinary transaction or any other matters. Messrs. Slusky and Mehta, who are members of our Board, are principals of Vector Capital. Vector Capital has no separate contractual rights to nominate any directors. There is a risk that the interests of Vector Capital and these directors will not be consistent with the interests of other holders of common shares. In addition, for so long as Vector Capital or any other entity or group owns more than 50% of the total voting power of our common shares, we will be a “controlled company” within the meaning of NASDAQ and applicable Canadian securities regulations and, as a result, will qualify for exemptions from certain corporate 24 Table of Contents governance requirements. As a controlled company, we are exempt from several NASDAQ standards, including the requirements: • that a majority of our Board consists of independent directors; • that our prospective directors be nominated solely by independent directors; and • that the compensation of our executive officers be determined solely by independent directors. We have in the past, and may in the future, rely on these exemptions and as a result, a majority of our Board may not be independent. In addition, while we will have a nominating and corporate governance committee and a compensation committee, these committees will not consist entirely of independent directors. Our audit committee had only two independent directors for the transition period ending April 25, 2007, as permitted by applicable NASDAQ and SEC rules and by the rules and regulations of the Canadian provincial securities regulatory authorities. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NASDAQ corporate governance requirements. Vector Capital’s ownership of a majority of our common shares, coupled with provisions contained in our articles of incorporation and Canadian law, reduce the likelihood that other investors will receive a premium upon a change of control. As our controlling shareholder, Vector Capital has the sole ability to transfer control of our company to a third party, making it possible that other investors will not receive a premium upon a change of control. In addition, even if and when no single shareholder controls us, provisions of our articles of incorporation and Canadian law may delay or impede a change of control transaction. Our authorized preferred shares are available for issuance from time to time at the discretion of our Board, without shareholder approval. Our Board has the authority, subject to applicable Canadian corporate law, to determine the special rights and restrictions granted to or imposed on any wholly unissued series of preferred shares, and such rights may be superior to those of our common shares. Limitations on the ability to acquire and hold our common shares may be imposed by the Competition Act (Canada). This legislation permits the Commissioner of Competition of Canada to review any acquisition of a significant interest in us and grants the Commissioner jurisdiction to challenge such an acquisition before the Canadian Competition Tribunal if the Commissioner believes that it would, or would be likely to, result in a substantial lessening or prevention of competition in any market in Canada. The Investment Canada Act subjects an acquisition of control of a company by a non-Canadian to government review if the value of our assets as calculated pursuant to the legislation exceeds a threshold amount. A reviewable acquisition may not proceed unless the relevant minister is satisfied that the investment is likely to be a net benefit to Canada. Any of the foregoing could prevent or delay a change of control and may deprive our shareholders of the opportunity to sell their common shares. Investors may be unable to enforce actions against the Company and certain of our directors under U.S. federal securities laws. A majority of our directors and officers reside outside of the U.S.. Because all or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the U.S., it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the U.S. upon the Company or those persons. Furthermore it may not be possible for investors to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the U.S. against the Company or those persons. There is doubt as to the enforceability in original actions in Canadian courts of liabilities based upon the U.S. federal securities laws, and as to the enforceability in Canadian courts of judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Therefore, it may not be possible to enforce those actions against the Company, certain of our directors and officers or our independent public accounting firm. 25 Table of Contents U.S. investors in our company could suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. As at November 30, 2008, we believe that our company is not a passive foreign investment company. However, if, for any taxable year, our passive income or our assets that produce passive income exceed levels provided by U.S. law, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to our shareholders. If we were classified as a PFIC for any taxable year in which a U.S. shareholder held our shares, such U.S. shareholder could be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liability and an interest charge upon the sale or other disposition of our common shares or upon the receipt of amounts treated as “excess distributions.” U.S. shareholders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of the PFIC rules discussed in this paragraph. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 