Item 1A. Risk Factors. Cautionary Statement on Forward-Looking Statements The statements in this Form 10-K that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements made in reliance on the safe harbor protections provided under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements may be accompanied by words such as “believe”, “estimate”, “project”, “expect”, “anticipate”, or “predict” that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. These statements are based on assumptions that we believe are reasonable; however, many important factors could cause our actual consolidated results in the future to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made herein and in any other documents or oral presentations made by, or on behalf of, the Company. These factors are discussed below. We assume no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements made herein or any other forward-looking statements made by the Company, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 8 Table of Contents Our ability to execute our business plan depends on many factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our strategic plan is focused on cost management and the continued implementation of key revenue initiatives, including strategic pricing, designed to generate future internal growth in our core funeral and cemetery operations. Many of the factors necessary for the execution of our strategic plan, such as the number of deaths and general economic conditions, are beyond our control. We cannot give assurance that we will be able to execute any or all of our strategic plan. Failure to execute any or all of the strategic plan could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Our credit agreements and debt securities contain covenants that may prevent us from engaging in certain transactions. Our credit agreements and debt securities contain, among other things, various affirmative and negative covenants that may prevent us from engaging in certain transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us. These covenants limit, among other things, our and our subsidiaries’ ability to: • Incur additional secured indebtedness (including guarantee obligations); • Create liens on assets; • Engage in certain transactions with affiliates; • Enter into sale-leaseback transactions; • Engage in mergers, liquidations, and dissolutions; • Sell assets; • Enter into leases; • Pay dividends, distributions, and other payments in respect of capital stock and purchase our capital stock in the open market; • Make investments, loans, or advances; • Repay subordinated indebtedness or amend the agreements relating thereto; • Change our fiscal year; • Create restrictions on our ability to receive distributions from subsidiaries; and • Change our lines of business. Our bank credit facility also requires us to maintain certain leverage and interest coverage ratios. See Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 11 of this Form 10-K for further information related to our bank credit facility. If we lost the ability to use surety bonding to support our preneed funeral and preneed cemetery activities, we may be required to make material cash payments to fund certain trust funds. We have entered into arrangements with certain surety companies whereby such companies agree to issue surety bonds on our behalf as financial assurance or as required by existing state and local regulations. The surety bonds are used for various business purposes; however, the majority of the surety bonds issued and outstanding have been issued to support our preneed funeral and cemetery activities. In the event all of the surety companies cancelled or did not renew our surety bonds, which are generally renewed for twelve-month periods, we would be required to either obtain replacement coverage or fund approximately $235.9 million as of December 31, 2007 into state-mandated trust accounts. 9 Table of Contents The funeral home and cemetery industry continues to be increasingly competitive. In North America, the funeral and cemetery industry is characterized by a large number of locally owned, independent operations. To compete successfully, our funeral service locations and cemeteries must maintain good reputations and high professional standards, as well as offer attractive products and services at competitive prices. In addition, we must market the Company in such a manner as to distinguish us from our competitors. We have historically experienced price competition from independent funeral home and cemetery operators, monument dealers, casket retailers, low-cost funeral providers, and other non-traditional providers of services and merchandise. If we are unable to successfully compete, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our affiliated funeral and cemetery trust funds own investments in equity securities, fixed income securities, and mutual funds, which are affected by financial market conditions that are beyond our control. In connection with our preneed funeral and preneed cemetery merchandise and service sales, most affiliated funeral and cemetery trust funds own investments in equity securities and mutual funds. Our earnings and investment gains and losses on these equity securities and mutual funds are affected by financial market conditions that are beyond our control. In addition, our investments in our funeral, cemetery, and perpetual care trusts have an indirect exposure, through our investment fund managers, to mortgage-backed securities and therefore to sub-prime mortgage markets. At December 31, 2007, our exposure to sub-prime mortgage investments is approximately $18 million, or less than 1.0% of our total investment portfolio of over $3 billion. As of December 31, 2007, net unrealized appreciation in the preneed funeral and cemetery merchandise and services trust funds amounted to $5.9 million and $29.4 million, respectively. Our perpetual care trust funds had net unrealized depreciation of $2.9 million as of December 31, 2007. The following table summarizes our investment returns, excluding fees, on our trust funds for the last three years. 2007 2006 2005 Preneed funeral trust funds 9.9 % 8.8 % 6.6 % Cemetery merchandise and services trust funds 9.8 % 8.4 % 6.9 % Perpetual care trust funds 3.2 % 10.8 % 3.9 % If earnings from our trust funds decline, we would likely experience a decline in future revenues. In addition, if the trust funds experienced significant investment losses, there could be insufficient funds in the trusts to cover the costs of delivering services and merchandise or maintaining cemeteries in the future. We would have to cover any such shortfall with cash flows from operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Increasing death benefits related to preneed funeral contracts funded through life insurance or annuity contracts may not cover future increases in the cost of providing a price-guaranteed funeral service. We sell price-guaranteed preneed funeral contracts through various programs providing for future funeral services at prices prevailing when the agreements are signed. For preneed funeral contracts funded through life insurance or annuity contracts, we receive in cash a general agency commission that typically averages approximately 14% of the total sale from the third party insurance company. Additionally, there is an increasing death benefit associated with the contract of approximately 1% per year to be received in cash at the time the funeral is performed. There is no guarantee that the increasing death benefit will cover future increases in the cost of providing a price-guaranteed funeral service, which could materially adversely affect our future cash flows, revenues, and operating margins. Unfavorable results of litigation could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. As discussed in Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 13 of this Form 10-K, we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits in the ordinary course of our business. Adverse outcomes in some or all of the pending cases may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us. While management currently believes that resolving all of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have 10 Table of Contents a material adverse impact on our financial position, cash flows, or results of operations, litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management’s view of these matters may change in the future. There exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on our financial position, cash flows, and the results of operations for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. If the number of deaths in our markets declines, our cash flows and revenues may decrease. If the number of deaths declines, the number of funeral services and interments performed by us could decrease and our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The continuing upward trend in the number of cremations performed in North America could result in lower revenue and gross profit dollars. There is a continuing upward trend in the number of cremations performed in North America as an alternative to traditional funeral service dispositions. However, we have seen a recent stabilization in the trend for our businesses as our strategic pricing initiative and discounting policies have resulted in a decline in highly-discounted, low-service cremation customers. In our operations in North America during 2007, 41.6% of the comparable funeral services we performed were cremation cases compared to 41.5% and 41.4% performed in 2006 and 2005, respectively. We expect this continuing upward trend to resume in the near future. We continue to expand our cremation memorialization products and services, which have resulted in higher average sales for cremation services. If we are unable to successfully expand our cremation memorialization products and services, and cremations continue to be a significant percentage of our funeral services, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The funeral home and cemetery businesses are high fixed-cost businesses. The majority of our operations are managed in groups called “markets”. Markets are geographical groups of funeral service locations and cemeteries that share common resources such as operating personnel, preparation services, clerical staff, motor vehicles, and preneed sales personnel. Personnel costs, the largest of our operating expenses, are the cost components most beneficially affected by this grouping. We must incur many of these costs regardless of the number of funeral services or interments performed. Because we cannot necessarily decrease these costs when we experience lower sales volumes, a sales decline may cause margin percentages to decline at a greater rate than the decline in revenues. Regulation and compliance could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Our operations are subject to regulation, supervision, and licensing under numerous foreign, federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, and regulations, including extensive regulations concerning trust funds, preneed sales of funeral and cemetery products and services, and various other aspects of our business. The impact of such regulations varies depending on the location of our funeral and cemetery operations. Violations of applicable laws could result in fines or sanctions to us. In addition, from time to time, governments and agencies propose to amend or add regulations, which would increase costs and decrease cash flows. For example, foreign, federal, state, local, and other regulatory agencies have considered and may enact additional legislation or regulations that could affect the deathcare industry, such as regulations that require more liberal refund and cancellation policies for preneed sales of products and services, limit or eliminate our ability to use surety bonding, increase trust requirements, and/or prohibit the common ownership of funeral homes and cemeteries in the same market. If adopted by the regulatory authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate, these and other possible proposals could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Compliance with laws, regulations, industry standards, and customs concerning burial procedures and the handling and care of human remains is critical to the continued success of our business and any operations we may acquire. Litigation and regulatory proceedings regarding these issues could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We are continually monitoring and reviewing our 11 Table of Contents operations in an effort to insure that we are in compliance with these laws, regulations, and standards and, where appropriate, taking appropriate corrective action. A number of years may elapse before particular tax matters, for which we have established accruals, are audited and finally resolved. The number of tax years with open tax audits varies depending on the tax jurisdiction. In the United States, the Internal Revenue Service is currently examining our tax returns for 1999 through 2005 and various state jurisdictions are auditing years through 2006. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular tax matter, we believe that our accruals reflect the probable outcome of known tax contingencies. Unfavorable settlement of any particular issue would reduce a deferred tax asset or require the use of cash. Favorable resolution could result in reduced income tax expense reported in the financial statements in the future. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could adversely affect our financial results, our operations and our stock price, and cause investors to lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. When we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, such as those disclosed in Item 9A, we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. In such event, our financial results, operations and stock price could be adversely affected, and investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 