Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Some but not all of the risks we face are described below. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows and reduce the value of an investment in our common stock. The pendency of our agreement to be acquired by Intel could have an adverse effect on our business. On August 18, 2010, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with Intel and Jefferson Acquisition Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Intel (“Merger Sub”), pursuant to which, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, Merger Sub will merge with and into McAfee and we will continue as the surviving corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Intel. Upon the consummation of the merger, subject to certain exceptions, each share of our common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the merger will be converted into the right to receive $48.00 in cash, without interest. The announcement and pendency of the acquisition by Intel could cause disruptions in our business. For example, customers may delay, reduce or even cease making purchases from us until they determine whether the merger will affect our products and services, including, but not limited to pricing, performance or support. Third-party intermediaries such as distributors, value-added resellers, PC OEMs, ISPs and other distribution channel partners may give greater priority to products of our competitors until they determine whether the merger will affect our products and services or our relationship with them. In addition, key personnel may depart for a variety of reasons including perceived uncertainty as to the affect of the merger on their employment. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our relationships with our customers, vendors and other employees. These disruptions may increase over time until the closing of the merger, and we cannot provide assurance that the merger will close by the end of the first quarter of 2011, if at all. The Merger Agreement generally requires us to operate our business in the ordinary course pending consummation of the merger, but includes certain contractual restrictions on the conduct of our business that could affect our ability to execute on our business strategies and attain our financial goals, and the pendency of the acquisition by Intel and the completion of the conditions to closing could divert the time and attention of our management. All of the matters described above, alone or in combination, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. 14 Table of Contents The failure to complete the merger with Intel could adversely affect our business. We cannot provide assurance that the pending acquisition by Intel will be completed. If the pending acquisition is not completed, the share price of our common stock may drop to the extent that the current market price of our common stock reflects an assumption that a transaction will be completed. On August 18, 2010, the day before the announcement of the pending merger, our stock’s closing price was $29.93. On August 19, 2010, following the announcement of the pending merger, our stock’s closing price was $47.01 and from August 19, 2010 through February 22, 2011 our stock’s closing price has ranged between $46.05 and $47.96. In addition, under certain circumstances specified in the Merger Agreement, we may be required to pay Intel a termination fee of approximately $230.0 million. Further, a failed transaction may result in negative publicity and a negative impression of us in the investment community. Further, any disruptions to our business resulting from the announcement and pendency of the acquisition by Intel and from intensifying competition from our competitors, including any adverse changes in our relationships with our customers, vendors and employees, could continue or accelerate in the event of a failed transaction. There can be no assurance that our business, these relationships or our financial condition will not be adversely affected, as compared to the condition prior to the announcement of the acquisition merger, if the acquisition merger is not consummated. Adverse conditions in the national and global economies and financial markets may adversely affect our business and financial results. National and global economies and financial markets have experienced a prolonged downturn stemming from a multitude of factors, including adverse credit conditions impacted by the sub-prime mortgage crisis, slower or receding economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, fluctuating energy costs, high unemployment, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns and other factors. The U.S. and many other countries have been experiencing or recently have experienced slowed or receding economic growth and disruptions in the financial markets. These conditions have been heightened recently by increased volatility in the European capital markets. The severity or length of time these economic and financial market conditions may persist is unknown. During challenging economic times, periods of heightened volatility in the capital markets, periods of high unemployment and in tight credit markets, many customers may delay or reduce technology purchases. This could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, difficulties in collection of accounts receivable, slower adoption of new technologies, lower renewal rates, and increased price competition. These results may persist even when certain economic conditions have improved. In addition, weakness in the end-user market could negatively affect the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could, in turn, delay paying their obligations to us. This would increase our credit risk exposure and cause delays in our recognition of revenue on future sales to these customers. Specific economic trends, such as declines in the demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices, or softness in corporate information technology spending, could have a more direct impact on our business. Any of these events would likely harm our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. If our products do not work properly, we could experience negative publicity, damage to our reputation, legal liability, declining sales and increased expenses. Failure to protect against security breaches. Because of the complexity of our products, we have in the past found errors in versions of our products that were not detected before first introduced, or in new versions or enhancements, and we may find such errors in the future. Because of the complexity of the environments in which our products operate, our products may have errors or defects that customers identify after deployment. Failures, errors or defects in our products could result in security breaches or compliance violations for our customers, disruption or damage to their networks or other negative consequences and could result in negative publicity, damage to our reputation, declining sales, increased expenses and customer relation issues. Such failures could also result in product liability damage claims against us by our customers, even though our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims. Furthermore, the correction of defects could divert the attention of engineering personnel from our product development efforts. A major security breach at one of our customers that is attributable to or not preventable by our products could be very damaging to our business. Any actual or perceived breach of network or computer security at 15 Table of Contents one of our customers, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, could adversely affect the market’s perception of our security products and our stock price. False alarms or false positives. Our system protection software products have in the past, and these products and our intrusion protection products may at times in the future, falsely detect viruses or computer threats that do not actually exist. These false alarms or false positives, while typical in the security industry, can damage or impair the affected computers or network, for example causing the affected computers or network to slow or even shut down, which may have adverse economic consequences to our customers. Our license agreements typically contain provisions, such as disclaimers of warranty and limitations of liability, which seek to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims. However, these provisions may not be enforceable on statutory, public policy or other grounds. In addition, these false alarms or false positives could impair the perceived reliability of our products and could therefore adversely impact market acceptance of our products. We may be subject to litigation claiming damages related to a false alarm or false positive. Damage to our reputation or product liability or related claims brought against us could materially adversely affect our sales or subject us to significant liabilities, including litigation damages. On April 21, 2010, we released a signature file that caused some of our customers’ computers to be rendered inoperable or significantly impacted. Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows were adversely affected in the second quarter of 2010 by the signature file update release and remediation actions we took. Our email and web solutions (anti-spam, anti-spyware, web categorization, and safe search products) may falsely identify emails, programs or web sites as unwanted “spam”, “potentially unwanted programs” or “unsafe.” They may also fail to properly identify unwanted emails, programs or unsafe web sites, particularly because spam emails, spyware or malware are often designed to circumvent anti-spam or spyware products and to incorrectly identify legitimate web sites as unsafe. Parties whose emails or programs are incorrectly blocked by our products, or whose web sites are incorrectly identified as unsafe or as utilizing phishing techniques, may seek redress against us for labeling them as spammers or unsafe and/or for interfering with their businesses. In addition, false identification of emails or programs as unwanted spam or potentially unwanted programs may discourage potential customers from using or continuing to use these products. Customer misuse of products. Our products may also not work properly if they are misused or abused by customers or non-customer third parties who obtain access and use of our products. These situations may arise where an organization uses our products in a manner that impacts their end users’ or employees’ privacy or where our products are misappropriated to censor private access to the internet. Any of these situations could impact the perceived reliability of our products, result in negative press coverage, negatively affect our reputation and adversely impact our financial results. We face intense competition and we expect competitive pressures to increase in the future. This competition could have a negative impact on our business and financial results. The markets for our products are intensely competitive and we expect both product and pricing competition to increase. If our competitors gain market share in the markets for our products, our sales could grow more slowly or decline. Competitive pressures could also lead to increases in expenses such as advertising expenses, product rebates, product placement fees, and marketing funds provided to our channel partners. Advantages of larger competitors. Our principal competitors in each of our product categories are described in “Business — Competition” above. Our competitors include some large enterprises such as Microsoft, Cisco Systems, Symantec, IBM and Google. In addition, smaller current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater financial resources or other competitive advantages. For example, Hewlett-Packard recently acquired 3Com Corporation. Large vendors of hardware or operating system software increasingly incorporate system and network security functionality into their products, and enhance that functionality either through internal development or through strategic alliances or acquisitions. Some of our current and potential competitors may have competitive advantages such as longer operating histories, more extensive international operations, greater name recognition, larger technical staffs, established relationships with more distributors and hardware vendors, significantly greater product development and acquisition budgets, and/or greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. 16 Table of Contents Consumer business competition. More than 35% of our revenue comes from our consumer business. Our growth of this business relies on direct sales and sales through relationships with ISPs such as AOL, Cox, Verizon and AT&T; PC OEMs, such as Acer, Dell, Sony Computer, Hewlett Packard and Toshiba; and OEM partners such as Adobe. As competition in this market increases, we have and will continue to experience pricing pressures that could have a negative effect on our ability to sustain our revenue, operating margin and market share growth. Further, as penetration of the consumer anti-virus market through the ISP model increases, we expect that pricing and competitive pressures in this market will become even more acute. Low-priced or free competitive products. Security protection is increasingly being offered by third parties at significant discounts to our prices or, in some cases is bundled for free. The widespread inclusion of lower-priced or free products that perform the same or similar functions as our products within computer hardware or other companies’ software products could reduce the perceived need for our products or render our products unmarketable — even if these incorporated products are inferior or more limited than our products. It is possible that a major competitor may offer a free anti-malware enterprise product. Purchasers of mini notebooks or netbooks, which generally are sold at a lower price than laptops, may place a greater emphasis on price in making their security purchasing decision as they did in making their computer purchasing decision. The expansion of these competitive trends could have a significant negative impact on our sales and financial results. We also face competition from numerous smaller companies, shareware and freeware authors and open source projects that may develop competing products, as well as from future competitors, currently unknown to us, who may enter the markets because the barriers to entry are fairly low. Smaller and/or newer companies often compete aggressively on price. We face product development risks due to rapid changes in our industry. Failure to keep pace with these changes could harm our business and financial results. The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological developments, continually-evolving industry trends and standards and ongoing changes in customer requirements. Our success depends on our ability to timely and effectively keep pace with these developments. Keeping pace with industry trends, new technologies and threat landscape changes. We must enhance and expand our product offerings to reflect industry trends, new technologies and new operating environments as they become increasingly important to customer deployments. For example, we must expand our offerings for virtual computer environments; we must continue to expand our security technologies for mobile environments to support a broader range of mobile devices such as mobile phones, smart phones and tablets, and the networks which increasingly are being accessed remotely or from home by these mobile devices; we must expand our security offerings for the proliferation of IP-connected embedded systems and devices; we must extend the security provided by our products to protect against the vulnerabilities present in new internet applications that are being released; we must develop products that are compatible with new or otherwise emerging operating systems, while remaining compatible with popular operating systems such as Linux, Oracle’s Solaris, UNIX, Macintosh OS_X, and Windows XP, NT, Vista and 7; and we must continue to expand our business models beyond traditional software licensing and subscription models, specifically, software-as-a- service is becoming an increasingly important method and business model for the delivery of applications. We must also continuously work to ensure that our products meet changing industry certifications and standards. In addition, internet threats such as malware have grown significantly in the last two years, we expect these threats to continue to increase both in numbers and in complexity, and we must continuously work to ensure our products protect against the increased volume and complexity. We may invest in complementary or competitive businesses, products or technologies to help us keep pace with industry changes but these investments may not result in products that are important to our customers or we may not realize the benefits of these investments. Failure to keep pace with technological changes in our industry and changes in the threat landscape could adversely affect our ability to protect against security breaches, which cause us to lose customers and could have a negative impact on our business and financial results. Failure to keep pace with changes that are important to our customers could also cause us to lose customers and could have a negative impact on our business and financial results. Impact of product development delays or competitive announcements. Our ability to adapt to changes can be hampered by product development delays. We may experience delays in product development as we have at times in 17 Table of Contents the past. Complex products like ours may contain undetected errors or version compatibility problems, particularly when first released, which could delay or adversely impact market acceptance. We may also experience delays or unforeseen costs related to integrating products we acquire with products we develop, because we may be unfamiliar with errors or compatibility issues of products we did not develop ourselves. We may choose not to deliver a partially-developed product, thereby increasing our development costs without a corresponding benefit. This could negatively impact our business. We face risks associated with past and future acquisitions. We may buy or make investments in complementary or competitive companies, products and technologies. We may not realize the anticipated benefits from these acquisitions. Future acquisitions could result in significant acquisition-related charges and dilution to our stockholders. In addition, we face a number of risks relating to our acquisitions, including the following, any of which could harm our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of our past or future acquisitions. Integration. Integration of an acquired company or technology is a complex, time consuming and expensive process. The successful integration of an acquisition requires, among other things, that we integrate and retain key management, sales, research and development and other personnel; integrate the acquired products into our product offerings from both an engineering and sales and marketing perspective; integrate and support pre-existing suppliers, distribution and customer relationships; coordinate research and development efforts; and consolidate duplicate facilities and functions and integrate back-office accounting, order processing and support functions. If we do not successfully integrate an acquired company or technology, we may not achieve the anticipated revenue or cost reduction synergies. The geographic distance between the companies, the complexity of the technologies and operations being integrated and the disparate corporate cultures being combined may increase the difficulties of integrating an acquired company or technology. Management’s focus on the integration of operations may distract attention from our day-to-day business and may disrupt key research and development, marketing or sales efforts. In addition, it is common in the technology industry for aggressive competitors to attract customers and recruit key employees away from companies during the integration phase of an acquisition. If integration of our acquired businesses or assets is not successful, we may experience adverse financial or competitive effects. Internal controls, policies and procedures. Acquired companies or businesses are likely to have different standards, controls, contracts, procedures and policies, making it more difficult to implement and harmonize company-wide financial, accounting, billing, information and other systems. Acquisitions of privately held and/or non-US companies are particularly challenging because their prior practices in these areas may not meet the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“GAAP”) and U.S. export regulations. Use of cash and securities. Our available cash and securities may be used to acquire or invest in companies or products. Moreover, when we acquire a company, we may have to incur or assume that company’s liabilities, including liabilities that may not be fully known at the time of acquisition. To the extent we continue to make acquisitions, we will require additional cash and/or shares of our common stock as payment. The use of securities would cause dilution for our existing stockholders. Key employees from acquired companies may be difficult to retain and assimilate. The success of many acquisitions depends to a great extent on our ability to retain key employees from the acquired company. This can be challenging, particularly in the highly competitive market for technical personnel. Retaining key executives for the long-term can also be difficult due to other opportunities available to them. Disputes that may arise out of earn-outs, escrows and other arrangements related to an acquisition of a company in which a key employee was a principal may negatively affect the morale of the employee and make retaining the employee more difficult. It could be difficult, time consuming and expensive to replace any key management members or other critical personnel that do not accept employment with McAfee following the acquisition. In addition to retaining key employees, we must integrate them into our company, which can be difficult and costly. Changes in management or other critical personnel may be disruptive to our business and might also result in our loss of some unique skills and the departure of existing employees and/or customers. 18 Table of Contents Accounting charges. Acquisitions may result in substantial accounting charges for restructuring and other expenses, amortization of purchased technology and intangible assets and stock-based compensation expense, any of which could materially adversely affect our operating results. Unknown tax liabilities. We may inherit from acquired companies tax liabilities unknown to us and unaccounted for by us at the time of acquisition. In certain instances, we have contractual indemnification rights that may enable us to recover these tax liabilities from prior owners of the acquired companies. If we are unable to recover, in whole or part, or if we do not have contractual indemnification rights or other rights enabling us to recover these tax liabilities from prior owners of the acquired companies, these liabilities could adversely affect our operating results. We may also incur legal expenses related to the recovery of these tax liabilities, which could further adversely affect our operating results. Potential goodwill, intangible asset and purchased technology impairment. We perform an impairment analysis on our goodwill balances on an annual basis or whenever events occur that may indicate impairment. If the fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying amount, then we must write down goodwill to its estimated fair value. We perform an impairment analysis on our intangible assets and purchased technologies whenever events occur that may indicate impairment. If the undiscounted cash flows expected to be derived from the intangible asset or purchased technology are less than its carrying amount, then we must write down the intangible asset or purchased technology to its estimated fair value. We cannot be certain that a future downturn in our business, changes in market conditions or a long-term decline in the quoted market price of our stock will not result in an impairment of goodwill, intangible assets or purchased technologies and the recognition of resulting expenses in future periods, which could adversely affect our results of operations for those periods. Establishment of Vendor Specific Objective Evidence (“VSOE”). Following an acquisition, we may be required to defer the recognition of revenue that we receive from the sale of products that we acquired, or from the sale of a bundle of products that includes products that we acquired, if we have not established VSOE for the undelivered elements in the arrangement. A delay in the recognition of revenue from sales of acquired products or bundles that include acquired products may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial results and may adversely affect our operating margins. Similarly, companies that we acquire may operate with different cost and margin structures, which could further cause fluctuations in our operating results and adversely affect our operating margins. If our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future financial results fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price could be negatively affected. Our international operations involve risks that could divert the time and attention of management, increase our expenses and otherwise adversely impact our business and financial results. Our international operations increase our risks in several aspects of our business, including but not limited to risks relating to revenue, legal and compliance, currency exchange and interest rate, and general operating. Net revenue in our operating regions outside of North America represented 42% of total net revenue in 2010 compared to 43% in 2009 and 47% in 2008. The risks associated with our international operations could adversely affect our business and financial results. Revenue risks. Revenue risks include, among others, longer payment cycles, greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable, tariffs and other trade barriers, seasonality, currency fluctuations, and the high incidence of software piracy and fraud in some countries. The primary product development risk to our revenue is our ability to deliver new products in a timely manner and to successfully localize our products for a significant number of international markets in different languages. Legal and compliance risks. We face a variety of legal and compliance risks. For example, international operations pose a compliance risk with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and the UK Bribery Act 2010. Some countries have a reputation for businesses to engage in prohibited practices with government officials to consummate transactions. Although we have implemented training along with policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with this and similar laws, there can be no assurance that all employees and third-party intermediaries (including our contractors, agents, resellers, distributors and strategic channel partners) will comply with anti-corruption laws. Any such violation could have a material adverse effect on our business. 19 Table of Contents Another legal risk is compliance with data privacy laws. The U.S., Europe and other jurisdictions have adopted and continue to adopt privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations. Any failure by us to comply with these privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could lead to legal proceedings against us by governmental entities or customers resulting in additional costs or other harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines and penalties, a governmental order requiring that we change our data practices could result, which in turn could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Compliance with these regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue. Noncompliance could result in penalties being imposed on us or orders that we cease conducting the noncompliant activity. Another legal risk is that some of our computer security solutions incorporate encryption technology that is governed by U.S. export regulations. The cost of compliance with those regulations can affect our ability to sell certain products in certain markets and could have a material adverse effect on our international revenue and expense. If we, or our resellers, fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may become subject to penalties and fines or restrictions that may adversely affect our business. Increasingly, the United States Congress (“Congress”) is taking a more active interest in information and communications technology companies doing business in China and other countries whose governments pressure businesses to comply with domestic laws and policies in ways that may conflict with the internationally recognized human rights of freedom of expression and privacy. Congress has not prohibited companies from doing business in many of these countries, however, Congress could change the export laws and regulations to prohibit or restrict the sale of products in many of these countries, which could have a material adverse effect upon our international revenue. Other legal risks include international labor laws and our relationship with our employees and regional work councils; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and compliance with our code of conduct and other internal policies. Currency exchange and interest rate risks. A significant portion of our transactions outside of the U.S. are denominated in foreign currencies. We translate revenues and costs from these transactions into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes. As a result, our future operating results will continue to be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. This combined with economic instability, such as higher interest rates in the U.S. and inflation, could reduce our customers’ ability to obtain financing for software products, or could make our products more expensive or could increase our costs of doing business in certain countries. During 2010 and 2009, we recorded net foreign currency transaction losses of $4.1 million and $2.4 million, respectively. In 2008 we recorded a net foreign currency transaction gain of $6.4 million. We may be positively or negatively affected by fluctuations in foreign currency rates in the future, especially if international sales continue to grow as a percentage of our total sales. Additionally, fluctuations in currency exchange rates will impact our deferred revenue balance, which is a key financial metric at each period end. The risk associated with fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates may be heightened due to volatility in the European capital markets. Research and development risks. We employ engineers in a number of jurisdictions outside the U.S. In many of these jurisdictions the laws relating to the protection of intellectual property are less strict than the laws in the U.S. or not enforced to the same extent as they are enforced in the U.S. As a result in some foreign jurisdictions we may be subject to heightened attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems or surreptitiously introduce software into our products. These attempts may be the result of hackers or others seeking to harm us, our products, or customers. We have implemented various measures to manage our risks related to these disruptions, but these measures may be insufficient and a system failure or security breach could negatively impact our operations and financial results. The theft and/or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an incident could negatively impact our competitive position. In addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. General operating risks. More general risks of international business operations include the increased costs of establishing, managing and coordinating the activities of geographically dispersed and culturally diverse 20 Table of Contents operations (particularly sales and support and shared service centers) located on multiple continents in a wide range of time zones. We face a number of risks related to our product sales through distributors and other third parties. We sell substantially all of our products through third-party intermediaries such as distributors, value-added resellers, PC OEMs, ISPs and other distribution channel partners (referred to collectively as distributors). Reliance on third parties for distribution exposes us to a variety of risks, some of which are described below, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. Limited control over timing of product delivery. We have limited control over the timing of the delivery of our products to customers by third-party distributors. We generally do not require our resellers and OEM partners to meet minimum sales volumes, so their sales may vary significantly from period to period. For example, the volume of our products shipped by our OEM partners depends on the volume of computers shipped by the PC OEMs, which is outside of our control. These factors can make it difficult for us to forecast our revenue accurately and they also can cause our revenue to fluctuate unpredictably. Competitive aspects of distributor relationships. Our distributors may sell other vendors’ products that compete with our products. Although we offer our distributors incentives to focus on sales of our products, they often give greater priority to products of our competitors, for a variety of reasons. In order to maximize sales of our products rather than those of our competitors, we must effectively support these partners with, among other things, appropriate financial incentives to encourage them to invest in sales tools, such as online sales and technical training and product collateral needed to support their customers and prospects and technical expertise through local sales engineers. If we do not properly support our partners, they may focus more on our competitors’ products, and their sales of our products would decline. A significant portion of our consumer revenue is derived from sales through our OEM partners that bundle our products with their products. Our reliance on this sales channel is significantly affected by our partners’ sales of new products into which our products are bundled. Our revenue from sales through our OEM partners is affected by the number of personal computers on which our products are bundled and the rate at which consumers purchase or subscribe for the bundled products. Adverse developments in global economic conditions, competitive risks and other factors may adversely affect personal computer sales and could adversely affect our sales and financial results. In addition, decreases in the rate at which consumers purchase or subscribe for our bundled products would adversely affect our sales and financial results. For example, if our PC OEM partners begin selling a greater percentage of netbooks and the conversion rate on netbooks is lower than the conversion rate on laptops, our sales would be adversely affected. Our PC OEM partners are also in a position to exert competitive pricing pressure. Competition for OEMs’ business continues to increase, and it gives the OEMs leverage to demand lower product prices or other financial concessions from us in order to secure their business. Even if we negotiate what we believe are favorable pricing terms when we first establish a relationship with an OEM, at the time of the renewal of the agreement, we may be required to renegotiate our agreement with them on less favorable terms. Lower net prices for our products or other financial concessions would adversely impact our operating margins. Our agreements with our PC OEM partners generally have customary termination rights pursuant to which these agreements may be terminated prior to the expiration of their term. If any significant PC OEM partner terminates its agreements with us, we could experience a significant interruption in the distribution of our consumer products through this sales channel and our revenue in future periods could be materially adversely affected. Reliance on a small number of distributors. A significant portion of our net revenue is attributable to a fairly small number of distributors. Our top ten distributors represented 38% of our net revenue in 2010, 34% in 2009 and 38% in 2008. Reliance on a relatively small number of third parties for a significant portion of our distribution exposes us to significant risks to net revenue and net income if our relationship with one or more of our key distributors is terminated for any reason. Risk of loss of distributors. We invest significant time, money and resources to establish and maintain relationships with our distributors, but we have no assurance that any particular relationship will continue for any 21 Table of Contents specific period of time. The agreements we have with our distributors can generally be terminated by either party without cause with no or minimal notice or penalties. If any significant distributor terminates its agreement with us, we could experience a significant interruption in the distribution of our products and our revenue could decline. We could also lose the benefit of our investment of time, money and resources in the distributor relationship. Although a distributor can terminate its relationship with us for any reason, one factor that may lead to termination is a divergence of our business interests and those of our distributors and potential conflicts of interest. For example, our acquisition activity has resulted in the termination of distributor relationships that no longer fit with our or the distributors’ business priorities. Future acquisition activity could cause similar termination of, or disruption in, our distributor relationships, which could adversely impact our revenue. Credit risk. Some of our distributors may experience financial difficulties, which could adversely impact our collection of accounts receivable. Our allowance for doubtful accounts was approximately $5.9 million as of December 31, 2010. We regularly review the collectability and credit-worthiness of our distributors to determine an appropriate allowance for doubtful accounts. Our uncollectible accounts could exceed our current or future allowances, which could adversely impact our financial results. Other. We also face legal and compliance risks with respect to our use of third party intermediaries operating outside the United States. As described above in “Our international operations involve risks that could divert the time and attention of management, increase our expenses and otherwise adversely impact our business and financial results,” any violations by such third party intermediaries of FCPA or similar laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to manage our growing distribution channels successfully, these channels may fail to perform as we anticipate, which could reduce our sales and increase our expenses as well as weaken our competitive position. We face risks related to sales to government entities, including the risk of early termination. We derive a portion of our revenues from sales to U.S. and foreign federal, state and local governments and their respective agencies. Most of our sales to government entities are of commercial items and have been made indirectly through third-party prime contractors that resell our products. Government entities may have contractual or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our resellers for convenience or due to a default, and any such termination may adversely impact our future results of operations. In addition, government demand and payment for our products may be affected by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, with funding reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our products. Additionally, government prime contracts are generally subject to government oversight which can result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business. We face numerous risks relating to the enforceability of our intellectual property rights and our use of third-party intellectual property, many of which could result in the loss of our intellectual property rights as well as other material adverse impacts on our business and financial results and condition. Limited protection of our intellectual property rights against potential infringers. We rely on a combination of contractual rights, trademarks, trade secrets, patents and copyrights to establish and protect proprietary rights in our technology. However, the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary technology may not deter its misuse, theft or misappropriation. Competitors may independently develop technologies or products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products or that inappropriately incorporate our proprietary technology into their products. Competitors may hire our former employees who may misappropriate our proprietary technology. If unauthorized disclosure of our source code occurs through security breach or attack, or otherwise, we could potentially lose future trade secret protection for that source code. The loss of future trade secret protection could make it easier for third-parties to compete with our products by copying functionality. If as a result of theft, misuse or misappropriation our competitors are able to inappropriately incorporate or copy our functionality into their technology, our revenue and operating margins may be adversely affected. We are aware that there are users of our security products that have not paid license, technical support, or subscription fees to us. Certain jurisdictions may not provide adequate legal infrastructure for effective protection of our intellectual property rights. We employ engineers in the development of 22 Table of Contents our technology that are located in jurisdictions outside the United States. If the governments, corporations and legal infrastructure in those jurisdictions do not support the protection of intellectual property rights, it will be more difficult to enforce our rights and protect our proprietary technology from misuse, theft and misappropriation, which could harm our business. Changing legal interpretations of liability for unauthorized use of our software or lessened sensitivity by corporate, government or institutional users to refraining from intellectual property piracy or other infringements of intellectual property could also harm our business. Frequency, expense and risks of intellectual property litigation in the network and system security market. Litigation may be necessary to enforce and protect our trade secrets, patents and other intellectual property rights. Similarly, we may be required to defend against claimed infringement by others. The security technology industry has increasingly been subject to patent and other intellectual property rights litigation, particularly from special purpose entities that seek to monetize their intellectual property rights by asserting claims against others. We expect this trend to continue and that in the future as we become a larger and more profitable company, we can expect this trend to accelerate and that we will be required to defend against this type of litigation. The litigation process is subject to inherent uncertainties, so we may not prevail in litigation matters regardless of the merits of our position. In addition to the expense and distraction associated with litigation, adverse determinations could cause us to lose our proprietary rights, prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products, require us to obtain licenses to patents or other intellectual property rights that our products are alleged to infringe (licenses may not be available on reasonable commercial terms or at all), and subject us to significant liabilities. If we acquire technology to include in our products from third parties, our exposure to infringement actions may increase because we must rely upon these third parties to verify the origin and ownership of such technology. Similarly, we face exposure to infringement actions if we hire software engineers who were previously employed by competitors and those employees inadvertently or deliberately incorporate proprietary technology of our competitors into our products despite efforts by our competitors and us to prevent such infringement. Litigation may be necessary to enforce and protect our trade secrets, patents and other intellectual property rights. Potential risks of using “open source” software. Like many other software companies, we use and distribute “open source” software in order to expedite development of new products. Open source software is generally licensed by its authors or other third parties under open source licenses, including, for example, the GNU General Public License. These license terms may be ambiguous, in many instances have not been interpreted by the courts and could be interpreted in a manner that results in unanticipated obligations regarding our products. Depending upon how the open source software is deployed by our developers, we could be required to offer our products that use the open source software for no cost, or make available the source code for modifications or derivative works. Any of these obligations could have an adverse impact on our intellectual property rights and revenue from products incorporating the open source software. Our use of open source code could also result in us developing and selling products that infringe third-party intellectual property rights. It may be difficult for us to accurately determine the developers of the open source code and whether the code incorporates proprietary software. We have processes and controls in place that are designed to address these risks and concerns, including a review process for screening requests from our development organizations for the use of open source. However, we cannot be sure that all open source is submitted for approval prior to use in our products. We also have processes and controls in place to review the use of open source in the products developed by companies that we acquire. Despite having conducted appropriate due diligence prior to completing the acquisition, products or technologies that we acquire may nonetheless include open source software that was not identified during the initial due diligence. Our ability to commercialize products or technologies of acquired companies that incorporate open source software or to otherwise fully realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition may be restricted for the reasons described in the preceding two paragraphs. 23 Table of Contents Pending or future litigation could have a material adverse impact on our results of operation, financial condition and liquidity. In addition to intellectual property litigation, from time to time, we have been, and may be in the future, subject to other litigation including stockholder derivative actions or actions brought by current or former employees. If we continue to make acquisitions in the future, we are more likely to be subject to acquisition related shareholder derivative actions and actions resulting from the use of earn-outs, purchase price escrow holdbacks and other similar arrangements. Where we can make a reasonable estimate of the liability relating to pending litigation and determine that an adverse liability resulting from such litigation is probable, we record a related liability. As additional information becomes available, we assess the potential liability and revise estimates as appropriate. However, because of the inherent uncertainties relating to litigation, the amount of our estimates could be wrong. In addition to the related cost and use of cash, pending or future litigation could cause the diversion of management’s attention. Managing, defending and indemnity obligations related to these actions have caused significant diversion of management’s and the board of directors’ time and resulted in material expense to us. See Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information with respect to certain currently pending legal matters. Our financial results can fluctuate significantly, making it difficult for us to accurately estimate operating results. Impact of fluctuations. Over the years our revenue, gross margins and operating results, which we disclose from time to time on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis, have fluctuated significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year, and we expect this to continue in the future. Thus, our operating results for prior periods may not be effective predictors of our future performance. These fluctuations make it difficult for us to accurately forecast operating results. We try to adjust expenses based in part on our expectations regarding future revenue, but in the short term expenses are relatively fixed. This makes it difficult for us to adjust our expenses in time to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall in a given period. Volatility in our quarterly financial results may make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future or pursue acquisitions that involve issuances of our stock. If our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future financial results fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price could be negatively affected. Factors that may cause our revenue, gross margins and other operating results to fluctuate significantly from period to period, include, but are not limited to, the following: Fluctuations in demand for or pricing of our products. We are subject to fluctuations in demand for our products due to a variety of factors, including general economic conditions, competition, product obsolescence, technological change, shifts in buying patterns, financial difficulties and budget constraints of our current and potential customers, and other factors. In addition, we are subject to competitive pricing pressures. Reduced demand for our products or competitive pricing pressure that affects our pricing may cause fluctuations in our revenues and may adversely affect our gross margins. Establishment of VSOE. We may in the future sell products in an arrangement for which we have not established VSOE for the undelivered elements in the arrangement and would be required to delay the recognition of revenue. A delay in the recognition of revenue from sales of products may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial results and may adversely affect our operating margins. Timing of product orders. A significant portion of our revenue in any quarter comes from previously deferred revenue, which is a somewhat predictable component of our quarterly revenue. However, a meaningful part of revenue depends on contracts entered into or orders booked and shipped in the current quarter. Typically we generate the most orders in the last month of each quarter and significant new orders generally close at the end of the quarter. Some customers believe they can enhance their bargaining power by waiting until the end of our quarter to place their order. Personnel limitations and system processing constraints could adversely impact our ability to process the large number of orders that typically occur near the end of a quarter, which could adversely affect our results for the quarter. Any failure or delay in closing significant new orders in a given quarter also could have a material adverse impact on our results for that quarter. 24 Table of Contents Reliability and timeliness of expense data. We increasingly rely upon third-party manufacturers to manufacture our hardware-based products; therefore, our reliance on their ability to provide us with timely and accurate product cost information exposes us to risk, negatively impacting our ability to accurately and timely report our operating results. Issues relating to third-party distribution, manufacturing and fulfillment relationships. We rely heavily on third parties to manufacture and distribute our products. Any changes in the performance of these relationships can impact our operating results. Changes in our supply chain could result in product fulfillment delays that contribute to fluctuations in operating results from period to period. We have in the past and may in the future make changes in our product delivery network, which may disrupt our ability to timely and efficiently meet our product delivery commitments, particularly at the end of a quarter. As a result, we may experience increased costs in the short term as temporary delivery solutions are implemented to address unanticipated delays in product delivery. In addition, product delivery delays may negatively impact our ability to recognize revenue if shipments are delayed at the end of a quarter. Product and geographic mix. Another source of fluctuations in our operating results and, in particular, gross profit margins, is the mix of products we sell and services we offer, as well as the mix of countries in which our products and services are sold, including the mix between corporate versus consumer products; hardware-based compared to software-based products; perpetual licenses versus subscription licenses; and maintenance and support services compared to consulting services or product revenue. Product and geographic mix can impact operating expenses as well as the amount of revenue and the timing of revenue recognition, so our profitability can fluctuate significantly. Timing of new products and customers. The timing of the introduction and adoption of new products, product upgrades or updates can have a significant impact on revenue from period to period. For example, revenue tends to be higher in periods shortly after we introduce new products compared to periods without new products. Our revenue may decline after new product introductions by competitors. In addition, the volume, size, and terms of new customer licenses can cause fluctuations in our revenue. Currency exchange fluctuations. A significant portion of our transactions outside of the United States are denominated in foreign currencies. We translate revenues and costs from these transactions into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes. As a result, our future operating results will continue to be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. Potential acceleration of prepaid expenses and deferred costs. We defer costs of revenue primarily related to revenue sharing and royalty arrangements and recognize these costs over the service period of the related revenue. Prepaid expenses consist primarily of revenue sharing costs that have been paid in advance of the anticipated customer renewal transactions and royalty costs paid in advance of revenue transactions. We evaluate quarterly and upon contract expiration the remaining value of these prepaid expenses in comparison to estimates of future revenues. If the estimated future revenues are less than the prepaid expenses, then we must accelerate the expense of prepaid amounts that exceed the estimated future revenues. We cannot be certain that a future downturn in the business of parties with whom we have entered into revenue sharing and royalty arrangements or changes in market conditions will not result in the acceleration of prepaid expenses from future periods to current periods, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We also defer costs related to our revenue-sharing and royalty arrangements and recognize those costs ratably as revenue is recognized. Currently proposed changes in the accounting for these deferred costs, if adopted, may require us to recognize these costs on a current rather than deferred basis, which could cause our revenue, gross margins and other operating results to fluctuate significantly from period to period. Additional cash and non-cash sources of fluctuations. A number of other factors that are peripheral to our core business operations also contribute to variability in our operating results. These include, but are not limited to, changes in foreign exchange rates for the Japanese Yen and the Euro (which may be more volatile due to the recent volatility in the European capital markets), international sales become a greater percentage of our total sales, repurchases under our stock repurchase program, expenses related to our acquisition and disposition activities, arrangements with minimum contractual commitments including royalty and distribution-related agreements, stock-based compensation expense, unanticipated costs associated with litigation or investigations, costs related to Sarbanes-Oxley compliance efforts, costs and charges related to certain unusual events such as restructurings, substantial declines in estimated values of long-lived assets below the value at which they are reflected in our financial statements, impairment of goodwill, intangible assets or purchased technologies and changes in GAAP, such as increased use of fair value 25 Table of Contents measures, new guidance relating to GAAP, such as the guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board in October 2009 (Accounting Standards Update No. 2009-13 ratifying EITF 08-01) on software revenue recognition and on revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables that applies to us beginning with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2011, changes in tax laws and the potential requirement that U.S. registrants prepare financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). Material weaknesses in our internal control and financial reporting environment may impact the accuracy, completeness and timeliness of our external financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that management report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and identify any material weaknesses in our internal control and financial reporting environment. If management identifies any material weaknesses, their correction could require remedial measures that could be costly and time-consuming. In addition, the presence of material weaknesses could result in financial statement errors that in turn could require us to restate our operating results. This in turn could damage investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could affect our stock price and potentially subject us to litigation. As well this could result in governmental inquiries that could require us to incur significant accounting, legal or other expenses. Our strategic alliances and our relationships with manufacturing partners expose us to a range of business risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. Uncertainty of realizing anticipated benefit of strategic alliances. We have entered into strategic alliances with numerous third parties to support our future growth plans. For example, these relationships may include technology licensing, joint technology development and integration, research cooperation, co-marketing activities and sell-through arrangements. We face a number of risks relating to our strategic alliances, including those described below. These risks may prevent us from realizing the desired benefits from our strategic alliances on a timely basis or at all, which could have a negative impact on our business and financial results. Challenges relating to integrated products from strategic alliances. Strategic alliances require significant coordination between the parties involved, particularly if an alliance requires that we integrate their products with our products. This could involve significant time and expenditure by our technical staff and the technical staff of our strategic partner. The integration of products from different companies may be more difficult than we anticipate, and the risk of integration difficulties, incompatible products and undetected programming errors or defects may be higher than that normally associated with new products. The marketing and sale of products that result from strategic alliances might also be more difficult than that normally associated with new products. Sales and marketing personnel may require special training, as the new products may be more complex than our other products. We invest significant time, money and resources to establish and maintain relationships with our strategic partners, but we have no assurance that any particular relationship will continue for any specific period of time. Generally, our strategic alliance agreements are terminable without cause with no or minimal notice or penalties. If we lose a significant strategic partner, we could lose the benefit of our investment of time, money and resources in the relationship. In addition, we could be required to incur significant expenses to develop a new strategic alliance or to determine and implement an alternative plan to pursue the opportunity that we targeted with the former partner. We rely on a limited number of third parties to manufacture our hardware-based network security and system protection products and to replicate and package our boxed software products. Many of our products are manufactured and supplied by a single, although not the same, source. This reliance on third parties involves a number of risks that could have a negative impact on our business and financial results. Less control of the manufacturing process and outcome with third party manufacturing relationships. Our use of third-party manufacturers results in a lack of control over the quality and timing of the manufacturing process, limited control over the cost of manufacturing, and the potential absence or unavailability of adequate manufacturing capacity. Risk of inadequate capacity with third party manufacturing relationships. If any of our third-party manufacturers fails for any reason to manufacture products of acceptable quality, in required volumes, and in a 26 Table of Contents cost-effective and timely manner, it could be costly as well as disruptive to product shipments. We might be required to seek additional manufacturing capacity, which might not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Even if additional capacity was available, the process of qualifying a new vendor could be lengthy and could cause significant delays in product shipments and could strain partner and customer relationships. In addition, supply disruptions or cost increases could increase our costs of goods sold and negatively impact our financial performance. Our risk is relatively greater in situations where our hardware products are manufactured by, or contain critical components supplied by, a single or a limited number of third parties. Any significant shortage of our products or components could lead to cancellations of customer orders or delays in placement of orders, which would adversely impact revenue. Risk of hardware obsolescence and excess inventory with third party manufacturing relationships. Hardware-based products may face greater obsolescence risks than software products. We could incur losses or other charges in disposing of obsolete hardware inventory. In addition, to the extent that our third-party manufacturers upgrade or otherwise alter their manufacturing processes, our hardware-based products could face supply constraints or risks associated with the transition of hardware-based products to new platforms. This could increase the risk of losses or other charges associated with obsolete inventory. We determine the quantities of our products that our third-party manufacturers produce and we base these orders upon our expected demand for our products. Although we order products as close in time to the actual demand as we can, if actual demand is not what we project, we may accumulate excess inventory, which may adversely affect our financial results. Our global operations may expose us to tax risk. We are generally required to account for taxes in each jurisdiction in which we operate. This process may require us to make assumptions, interpretations and judgments with respect to the meaning and application of promulgated tax laws and related administrative and judicial interpretations. The positions that we take and our interpretations of the tax laws may differ from the positions and interpretations of the tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate. An adverse outcome in any examination could have a significant negative impact on our cash position and net income. Although we have established reserves for examination contingencies in accordance with published guidance, there can be no assurance that the reserves will be sufficient to cover our ultimate liabilities. Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and can be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including but not limited to: unanticipated decreases in the amount of revenue or earnings in countries with low statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws and the related regulations and interpretations (including various proposals currently under consideration), changes in accounting principles (including accounting for uncertain tax positions), and changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attributes prescribed in certain accounting guidance. This guidance applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. Critical personnel may be difficult to attract, assimilate and retain. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain senior management personnel, as well as technically qualified and highly-skilled sales, consulting, technical, finance and marketing personnel. Other than members of executive management who have “at will” employment agreements, our employees are not typically subject to an employment agreement or non-competition agreement. It could be difficult, time consuming and expensive to locate, replace and integrate any key management member or other critical personnel. Changes in management or other critical personnel may be disruptive to our business and might also result in our loss of unique skills and the departure of existing employees and/or customers. Other personnel related issues that we may encounter include: Competition for personnel; need for competitive pay packages. Competition for qualified individuals in our industry is intense and we must provide competitive compensation packages, including equity awards. Increases in shares available for issuance under our equity incentive plans require stockholder approval, and there may be times, as we have seen in the past, where we may not obtain the necessary approval. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified individuals, our ability to compete in the markets for our products could be adversely affected, which would have a negative impact on our business and financial results. 27 Table of Contents Risks relating to senior management changes and new hires. From 2006 to 2008, we experienced significant changes in our senior management team as a number of officers resigned or were terminated and several key management positions were vacant for a significant period of time. In the second quarter of 2010, we experienced a change in our chief financial officer. We may continue to experience changes in senior management going forward. We continue to hire in key areas and have added a number of new employees in connection with our acquisitions. For new employees, including senior management, there may be reduced levels of productivity as it takes time for new hires to be trained or otherwise assimilated into the company. Increased customer demands on our technical support services may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and negatively impact our financial results. We offer technical support services with many of our products. We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services. We also may be unable to modify the format of our support services to compete with changes in support services provided by competitors or successfully integrate support for our customers. Further customer demand for these services, without corresponding revenue, could increase costs and adversely affect our operating results. We have outsourced a substantial portion of our worldwide consumer support functions to third-party service providers. If these companies experience financial difficulties, service disruptions, do not maintain sufficiently skilled workers and resources to satisfy our contracts, or otherwise fail to perform at a sufficient level under these contracts, the level of support services to our customers may be significantly disrupted, which could materially harm our relationships with these customers. We face risks related to customer outsourcing to system integrators. Some of our customers have outsourced the management of their information technology departments to large system integrators. If this trend continues, our established customer relationships could be disrupted and our products could be displaced by alternative system and network security solutions offered by system integrators that do not bundle our solutions. Significant product displacements could negatively impact our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to effectively upgrade or modify our information technology systems, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As our information technology systems age or need to be upgraded or replaced to meet our changing business needs, we may experience difficulties in transitioning to new or upgraded information technology systems and in applying maintenance patches to existing systems, including loss of data and decreases in productivity as personnel become familiar with new, upgraded or modified systems. Our management information systems will require modification and refinement as we grow and as our business needs change, which could prolong the difficulties we experience with systems transitions, and we may not always employ the most effective systems for our purposes. If we experience difficulties in implementing new or upgraded information systems or experience significant system failures, or if we are unable to successfully modify our management information systems and respond to changes in our business needs, our operating results could be harmed or we may fail to meet our reporting obligations. We may also experience similar results if we have difficulty applying routine maintenance patches to existing systems in a timely manner. Computer “hackers” may damage our products, services and systems. Due to our high profile in the network and system protection market, we have been a target of computer hackers who have, among other things, created viruses to sabotage or otherwise attack our products and services, including our various web sites. For example, we have seen the spread of viruses, or worms, which intentionally delete anti-virus and firewall software. Similarly, hackers may attempt to penetrate our network security and gain access to our network and our data centers, misappropriate our or our customers’ proprietary information, which may include personally identifiable information, or cause interruptions of our internal systems and services. Also, a number of web sites have been subject to denial of service attacks, where a web site is bombarded with information requests eventually causing the web site to overload, resulting in a delay or disruption of service. If successful, any of these events could damage users’ or our own computer systems, materially damage our relationship with 28 Table of Contents customers that are affected, subject us to claims and additional expense and result in negative publicity, damage to our reputation and a decline in sales. In addition, since we do not control disk duplication by distributors or our independent agents, media containing our software may be infected with viruses. Business interruptions may impede our operations and the operations of our customers. We are continually updating or modifying our accounting and other internal and external facing business systems. Modifications of these types of systems are often disruptive to business and may cause us to incur higher costs than we anticipate. Failure to properly manage this process could materially harm our business operations. In addition, we and our customers face a number of potential business interruption risks that are beyond our respective control. Natural disasters or other events could interrupt our business or the business of our customers, and each of us is reliant on external infrastructure that may be antiquated. Our corporate headquarters in California is located near a major earthquake fault. The potential impact of a major earthquake on our facilities, infrastructure and overall operations is not known, but could be quite severe. Despite business interruption and disaster recovery programs that have been implemented, an earthquake could seriously disrupt our entire business process. We are largely uninsured for losses and business disruptions caused by an earthquake and other natural disasters. Our investment portfolio is subject to volatility, losses and liquidity limitations. Continued negative conditions in the global credit markets could impair the value of or limit our access to our investments. Historically, investment income has been a significant component of our net income. The ability to achieve our investment objectives is affected by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. We invest our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities in a variety of investment vehicles in a number of countries with and in the custody of financial institutions with high credit ratings. While our investment policy and strategy attempt to manage interest rate risk, limit credit risk, and only invest in what we view as very high-quality debt securities, the outlook for our investment holdings is dependent on general economic conditions, interest rate trends and volatility in the financial marketplace, which can all affect the income that we receive, the value of our investments, and our ability to sell them. Current economic conditions have had widespread negative effects on the financial markets and global economies. These conditions have been heightened recently by increased volatility in the European capital markets. During these challenging markets, we are investing new cash in time deposits and liquidity funds and also in instruments with short to medium-term maturities of highly-rated issuers, including U.S. government guaranteed investments. We do not hold any auction rate securities or structured investment vehicles. The underlying collateral for certain of our mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities is comprised of some sub-prime mortgages, as well as prime and Alt-A mortgages. We are no longer purchasing mortgage-backed or asset-backed securities. The outlook for our investment income is dependent on the amount of any acquisitions that we effect, the amount of cash flows from operations and historically from the timing of our stock repurchases under our stock repurchase program that are available for investment. Our investment income is also affected by the yield on our investments and our recent shift to a larger percentage of our investment portfolio to shorter-term and U.S. government guaranteed investments. This shift has negatively impacted our income from our investment portfolio in light of declining yields. Continued decline in our investment income or the value of our investments will have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. During 2009, we recorded additional impairment on previously impaired marketable securities totaling $0.7 million. We believe that our investment securities are carried at fair value. However, over time the economic and market environment may provide additional insight regarding the fair value and the expected recoverability of certain securities, which could change our judgment regarding impairment. This could result in realized losses being charged against future income. Given the current market conditions involved, there is continuing risk additional impairments may be charged to income in future periods. At December 31, 2010, gross unrealized losses totaled $0.5 million. Most of our cash and investments held outside the U.S. are subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. A repatriation of these non-U.S. investment holdings to the U.S. under current law could be subject to foreign and U.S. federal income and withholding taxes, less any applicable foreign tax credits. Local regulations and potential further capital market turmoil could limit our ability to utilize these offshore funds. As of December 31, 2010, $755.0 million was held outside the United States. 29 Table of Contents Our charter documents and Delaware law may impede or discourage a takeover, which could lower our stock price. Under our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5.0 million shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. However, under the merger agreement with Intel, the board of directors is not permitted to issue any shares unless required by law. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock and could have the effect of discouraging a change of control of the company or changes in management. Delaware law and other provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could also delay or make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us or changes in our board of directors and management more difficult. For example, any stockholder wishing to make a stockholder proposal (including director nominations) at an annual meeting of our stockholders must meet the qualifications and follow the procedures specified under both the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and our bylaws. In addition, we have a classified board of directors; however, our certificate of incorporation provides that our board of directors will be declassified over the three year period ending with the annual meeting of our stockholders in 2012. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 