Item 1A. Risk Factors. Cautionary Statement on Forward-Looking Statements The statements in this Form 10-K that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements made in reliance on the safe harbor protections provided under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements may be accompanied by words such as “believe”, “estimate”, “project”, “expect”, “anticipate”, or “predict” that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. These statements are based on assumptions that we believe are reasonable; however, many important factors could cause our actual consolidated results in the future to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made herein and in any other documents or oral presentations made by, or on behalf of, the Company. These factors are discussed below. We assume no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements made herein or any other forward-looking statements made by the Company, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Our affiliated funeral and cemetery trust funds own investments in equity securities, fixed income securities, and mutual funds, which are affected by market conditions that are beyond our control. Our affiliated funeral and cemetery trust funds own investments in equity securities, fixed income securities, and mutual funds. Our earnings or gains and losses on these investments are affected by market conditions that are beyond our control. Our funeral and cemetery merchandise and service and cemetery perpetual care trusts have been impacted by the volatility in the U.S. and global financial markets. The fair market value of our trust investments declined sharply in the second half of 2008. Since that time, our trusts have recovered commensurate with the overall improvement in the financial markets. 9 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our investment returns (realized and unrealized), excluding certain fees, on our trust funds for the three years ended December 31: 2009 2008 2007 Preneed funeral merchandise and service trust funds 23.0 % (23.5 )% 9.9 % Preneed cemetery merchandise and service trust funds 27.3 % (26.9 )% 9.8 % Perpetual care trust funds 22.4 % (15.4 )% 3.2 % Generally, earnings or gains and losses on our trust investments are recognized, and we withdraw cash, when the underlying service is performed, merchandise is delivered, or upon contract cancellation; however, our cemetery perpetual care trusts recognize earnings, and in certain states, capital gains and losses, and we withdraw cash when we incur qualifying cemetery maintenance costs. If our trust funds experience additional volatility in 2010 or subsequent years, there could be insufficient funds in the trusts to cover the costs of delivering services and merchandise or maintaining cemeteries in the future. We would have to cover any such shortfall with cash flows from operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. For more information related to our trust investments, see Notes 4, 5, and 6 in Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. If the fair market value of these trusts, plus any other amount due to us upon delivery of the associated contracts, were to decline below the estimated costs to deliver the underlying products and services, we would record a charge to earnings to record a liability for the expected losses on the delivery of the associated contracts. As of December 31, 2009, no such charge was required. For additional information, see Critical Accounting Policies in Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We may be required to replenish our affiliated funeral and cemetery trust funds in order to meet minimum funding requirements, which would have a negative affect on our earnings and cash flow. In certain states and provinces, we have withdrawn allowable distributable earnings including unrealized gains prior to the maturity or cancellation of the related contract. Additionally, some states have laws that either require replenishment of investment losses under certain circumstances or impose various restrictions on withdrawals of future earnings when trust fund values drop below certain prescribed amounts. In the event of market declines, we may be required to deposit portions or all of these amounts into the respective trusts in some future period. As of December 31, 2009, we had unrealized losses of $9.1 million in the various trusts in these states. See Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements, Contractual Obligations, and Commercial and Contingent Commitments in Part II, Item 7. Our ability to execute our strategic plan depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our strategic plan is focused on cost management and the continued implementation of key revenue initiatives. Many of the factors necessary for the execution of our strategic plan, such as the number of deaths and general economic conditions, are beyond our control. Changes in operating conditions, such as supply disruptions and labor disputes, could negatively impact our operations. Our inability to achieve the levels of cost savings, productivity improvements, or earnings growth anticipated by management could affect our financial performance. Our inability to complete acquisitions, divestitures, or strategic alliances as planned or to realize expected synergies and strategic benefits could impact our financial performance. We cannot give assurance that we will be able to execute any or all of our strategic plan. Failure to execute any or all of our strategic plan could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Our credit agreements contain covenants that may prevent us from engaging in certain transactions. Our bank credit facility contains, among other things, various affirmative and negative covenants that may prevent us from engaging in certain transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us. The covenants limit, among other things, our and our subsidiaries’ ability to: • Incur additional indebtedness (including guarantee obligations); • Create liens on assets; 10 Table of Contents • Engage in certain transactions with affiliates; • Enter into sale-leaseback transactions; • Engage in mergers, liquidations, and dissolutions; • Sell assets; • Pay dividends, distributions, and other payments in respect of our capital stock; • Purchase our capital stock in the open market; • Make investments, loans, or advances; • Repay indebtedness or amend the agreements relating thereto; • Create restrictions on our ability to receive distributions from subsidiaries; and • Change our lines of business. Our bank credit facility requires us to maintain certain leverage and interest coverage ratios. These covenants and coverage ratios may require us to take actions to reduce our indebtedness or act in a manner contrary to our strategic plan and business objectives. In addition, events beyond our control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, may affect our ability to satisfy these covenants. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our indebtedness. If an event of default (if incurred 30 days after we receive notice of such bank credit facility default) under our bank credit facility occurs, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder, together with accrued interest, immediately due and payable. Any such declaration would also result in an event of default under our Senior Indenture governing our various senior notes. For additional information, see Liquidity and Capital Resources in Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 10 in Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. If we lost the ability to use surety bonding to support our preneed funeral and preneed cemetery activities, we may be required to make material cash payments to fund certain trust funds. We have entered into arrangements with certain surety companies whereby such companies agree to issue surety bonds on our behalf as financial assurance or as required by existing state and local regulations. The surety bonds are used for various business purposes; however, the majority of the surety bonds issued and outstanding have been issued to support our preneed funeral and cemetery activities. In the event all of the surety companies cancelled or did not renew our surety bonds, which generally have twelve-month renewal periods, we would be required to either obtain replacement coverage or fund approximately $224.7 million into state-mandated trust accounts as of December 31, 2009. The funeral home and cemetery industry continues to be increasingly competitive. In North America, the funeral home and cemetery industry is characterized by a large number of locally-owned, independent operations. To compete successfully, our funeral service locations and cemeteries must maintain good reputations and high professional standards, as well as offer attractive products and services at competitive prices. In addition, we must market the Company in such a manner as to distinguish us from our competitors. We have historically experienced price competition from independent funeral home and cemetery operators, monument dealers, casket retailers, low-cost funeral providers, and other non-traditional providers of services and merchandise. If we are unable to successfully compete, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Increasing death benefits related to preneed funeral contracts funded through life insurance or annuity contracts may not cover future increases in the cost of providing a price-guaranteed funeral service. We sell price-guaranteed preneed funeral contracts through various programs providing for future funeral services at prices prevailing when the agreements are signed. For preneed funeral contracts funded through life 11 Table of Contents insurance or annuity contracts, we receive in cash a general agency commission that typically averages approximately 16% of the total sale from the third party insurance company. Additionally, there is an increasing death benefit associated with the contract of approximately 1% per year to be received in cash at the time the funeral is performed. There is no guarantee that the increasing death benefit will cover future increases in the cost of providing a price-guaranteed funeral service, and any such excess cost could be materially adverse to our future cash flows, revenues, and operating margins. The financial condition of third-party insurance companies that fund our preneed funeral contracts may impact our future revenues. Where permitted, customers may arrange their preneed funeral contract by purchasing a life insurance or annuity policy from third-party insurance companies. The customer/policy holder assigns the policy benefits to our funeral home to pay for the preneed funeral contract at the time of need. If the financial condition of the third-party insurance companies were to deteriorate materially because of market conditions or otherwise, there could be an adverse effect on our ability to collect all or part of the proceeds of the life insurance policy, including the annual increase in the death benefit, when we fulfill the preneed contract at the time of need. Failure to collect such proceeds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Unfavorable results of litigation could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. As discussed in Note 12 of Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits in the ordinary course of our business. Adverse outcomes in some or all of the pending cases may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us. Management currently believes that resolving all of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position, cash flows, or results of operations; however, litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties, and management’s view of these matters may change in the future. There exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on our financial position, cash flows, and results of operations for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. If the number of deaths in our markets declines, our cash flows and revenues may decrease. If the number of deaths declines, the number of funeral services and interments performed by us could decrease and our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The continuing upward trend in the number of cremations performed in North America could result in lower revenues and gross profit. There is a continuing upward trend in the number of cremations performed in North America as an alternative to traditional funeral service dispositions. In our North American operations during 2009, 41.0% of the comparable funeral services we performed were cremation cases compared to 39.5% and 38.4% performed in 2008 and 2007, respectively. We continue to expand our cremation memorialization products and services, which have resulted in higher average sales for cremation services. If we are unable to successfully expand our cremation memorialization products and services, and cremations continue to be a significant percentage of our funeral services, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our funeral home and cemetery businesses are high fixed-cost businesses. The majority of our operations are managed in groups called “markets”. Markets are geographical groups of funeral service locations and cemeteries that share common resources such as operating personnel, preparation services, clerical staff, motor vehicles, and preneed sales personnel. Personnel costs, the largest component of our operating expenses, are the cost components most beneficially affected by this grouping. We must incur many of these costs regardless of the number of funeral services or interments performed. Because we cannot necessarily decrease these costs when we experience lower sales volumes, a sales decline may cause our margin percentages to decline at a greater rate than the decline in revenues. 12 Table of Contents Regulation and compliance could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Our operations are subject to regulation, supervision, and licensing under numerous foreign, federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, and regulations, including extensive regulations concerning trust funds, preneed sales of funeral and cemetery products and services, and various other aspects of our business. The impact of such regulations varies depending on the location of our funeral and cemetery operations. Violations of applicable laws could result in fines or sanctions against us. In addition, from time to time, governments and agencies propose to amend or add regulations, which could increase costs and decrease cash flows. For example, foreign, federal, state, local, and other regulatory agencies have considered and may enact additional legislation or regulations that could affect the deathcare industry. These include regulations that require more liberal refund and cancellation policies for preneed sales of products and services, limit or eliminate our ability to use surety bonding, increase trust requirements, require the deposit of funds or collateral to offset unrealized losses of trusts, and/or prohibit the common ownership of funeral homes and cemeteries in the same market. If adopted by the regulatory authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate, these and other possible proposals could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Compliance with laws, regulations, industry standards, and customs concerning burial procedures and the handling and care of human remains is critical to the continued success of our business and any operations we may acquire. Litigation and regulatory proceedings regarding these issues could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We are continually monitoring and reviewing our operations in an effort to insure that we are in compliance with these laws, regulations, and standards and, where appropriate, taking appropriate corrective action. A number of years may elapse before particular tax matters, for which we have established accruals, are audited and finally resolved. The number of tax years with open tax audits varies depending on the tax jurisdiction. In the United States, the Internal Revenue Service is currently examining our tax returns for 1999 through 2005 and various state jurisdictions are auditing years through 2008. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular tax matter, we believe that our accruals reflect the probable outcome of known tax contingencies. Unfavorable settlement of any particular issue would reduce a deferred tax asset or require the use of cash. Favorable resolution could result in reduced income tax expense reported in the financial statements in the future. Declines in overall economic conditions beyond our control could reduce future potential earnings and cash flows and could result in future goodwill impairments. In addition to an annual review, we assess the impairment of goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be greater than fair value. Factors that could trigger an interim impairment review include, but are not limited to, a significant decline in our stock price, significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, and significant negative industry or economic trends. If these factors occur, we may have a triggering event, which could result in impairment to our goodwill. Based on the results of our annual goodwill impairment test in 2009, we concluded that there was no impairment of our goodwill. However, if economic conditions worsen causing deterioration in our operating revenues, operating margins and cash flows, we may have a triggering event that could result in an impairment of our goodwill. Our cemetery segment, which has a goodwill balance of $60.6 million as of December 31, 2009, is more sensitive to market conditions and goodwill impairments because it is more reliant on preneed sales, which are impacted by customer discretionary spending. For additional information, see Critical Accounting Policies in Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We may fail to consummate the acquisition of Keystone. The consummation of the acquisition of Keystone is subject to certain customary closing conditions. There can be no assurance that SCI and Keystone will obtain the necessary approvals and satisfy the conditions to consummate the acquisition. In November 2009, we issued $150 million of unsecured 8.0% Senior Notes due 2021. The net proceeds of these notes are held in escrow accounts, pending the consummation of the Keystone acquisition 13 Table of Contents and related financial transactions. In the event the Keystone acquisition is not consummated on or prior to June 30, 2010, these notes are subject to special mandatory redemption. These notes may also be redeemed at our option, in whole but not in part, at any time prior to June 30, 2010 if, in our sole judgment, the Keystone acquisition will not be consummated by that date. The redemption price in either case will be 101% of the issue price of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of Keystone. If consummated, the success of the Keystone acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated cost savings from shared corporate and administrative areas and the rationalization of duplicative expenses. In order to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition, we must successfully combine the businesses of SCI and Keystone in a manner that permits those costs savings to be realized. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer or cost more to realize than expected. SCI and Keystone have operated, and until the completion of the acquisition will continue to operate, independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of valuable employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing business, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, and policies that could adversely impact our operations. The acquisition of Keystone may prove disruptive and could result in the combined business failing to meet our expectations. The process of integrating the operations of Keystone may require a disproportionate amount of resources and management attention. Our future operations and cash flows will depend largely upon our ability to operate Keystone efficiently, achieve the strategic operating objectives for our business and realize significant cost savings and synergies. Our management team may encounter unforeseen difficulties in managing the integration. In order to successfully combine and operate our businesses, our management team will need to focus on realizing anticipated synergies and cost savings on a timely basis while maintaining the efficiency of our operations. Any substantial diversion of management attention or difficulties in operating the combined business could affect our revenues and ability to achieve operational, financial and strategic objectives. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could adversely affect our financial results, our operations and our stock price, and cause investors to lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. When we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, as has been the case in years prior to 2009, we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. In such event, our financial results, operations and stock price could be adversely affected, and investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 