Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are certain risk factors that could affect Zoltek's business, financial condition and results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Before you invest in the Company’s securities, you should know that making such an investment involves a high degree of risk, including the risks described below. The risks that we have highlighted here are not the only ones that the Company faces. If any of the risks actually occur, the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of its securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risk Factors Related to the Proposed Merger with Toray The Merger is subject to various closing conditions, including governmental approvals, and other uncertainties and there can be no assurances as to whether and when it may be completed. On September 27, 2013, we entered into the Merger Agreement with Toray and Merger Sub, under which Merger Sub will merge with and into Zoltek, with Zoltek continuing as the surviving corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of Toray. The consummation of the Merger is subject to customary closing conditions. A number of the conditions are not within our control, and may prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect the completion of the transaction. These conditions include, among other things receiving the required approval of the Company's shareholders. It also is possible that a change, event, fact, effect or circumstance that could lead to a material adverse effect to Zoltek may occur, which may give Toray the ability to not complete the Merger. We cannot predict with certainty whether and when any of the required closing conditions will be satisfied or if another uncertainty may arise. If the Merger does not receive, or timely receive, the required regulatory approvals and clearances, or if another event occurs delaying or preventing the Merger, such delay or failure to complete the Merger may cause uncertainty or other negative consequences that may materially and adversely affect our sales, financial performance and operating results, and the price per share for our common stock. If the Merger Agreement is terminated, we may, under certain circumstances, be obligated to pay a termination fee or a break-up fee to Toray. These costs could require us to use available cash that would have otherwise been available for general corporate purposes. If the Merger is not completed, in certain circumstances, we would still be liable for significant transaction costs and could also be required to pay a termination fee of $23 million. If the Merger Agreement is terminated, the expense reimbursement and the termination fee we may be required to pay, if any, under the Merger Agreement may require us to use available cash that would have otherwise been available for general corporate purposes. For these and other reasons, a failed Merger could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition, which in turn would materially and adversely affect our business or financial condition, the price per share of our common stock. While the Merger is pending, we are subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions that could materially adversely affect our operations and the future of our business or result in a loss of employees. The Merger Agreement includes restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to the completion of the Merger, generally requiring us to conduct our business generally in the ordinary course and subjecting us to a variety of specified limitations absent Toray's prior written consent. We may find that these and other contractual arrangements in the Merger Agreement may delay or prevent us from or limit our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures, industry developments and future business opportunities that may arise during such period, even if our management thinks they may be advisable. The pendency of the Merger may also divert management's attention and our resources from ongoing business and operations. Our employees, customers and suppliers may have uncertainties about the effects of the Merger. In connection with the pending Merger, it is possible that some customers, suppliers and other persons with whom we have a business relationship may delay or defer certain business decisions or might decide to seek to terminate, change or renegotiate their relationship with us as a result of the Merger. Similarly, current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with us following completion of the Merger, which may materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key employees. If any of these effects were to occur, it could materially and adversely impact our revenues, earnings and cash flows and other business results and financial condition, as well as the market price of our common stock, regardless of whether the Merger is completed. Failure to complete the Merger could negatively impact our stock price and our business and financial results. There is no assurance that the Merger or any other transaction will occur or that the conditions to the Merger will be satisfied in a timely manner or at all. Further, there is no assurance that any event, change or other circumstances that could give rise to the termination of the Merger Agreement will not occur. Because the share price of our common stock after the announcement of the Merger Agreement may reflect an assumption that the Merger will be completed, the share price of our common stock may drop, potentially significantly, if the Merger is not completed. In addition, under circumstances defined in the Merger Agreement, if the Merger is not completed we may be required to pay a termination fee of up to approximately $23 million. Certain costs associated with the Merger are already incurred or may be payable even if the Merger is not completed. Further, a failed transaction may result in negative publicity and a negative impression of us in the investment community. Finally, any disruptions to our business resulting from the announcement and pendency of the Merger and from intensifying competition from our competitors, including any adverse changes in our relationships with our customers, vendors and employees or recruiting and retention efforts, could continue or accelerate in the event of a failed transaction. There can be no assurance that our business, these relationships or our financial condition will not be negatively impacted, as compared to prior to the announcement of the Merger, if the Merger is not consummated. If any of these effects were to occur, it could negatively impact our revenues, earnings and cash flows and other business results and financial condition, as well as the market price of our common stock. 9 Pending litigations against Zoltek and our directors could result in an injunction preventing completion of the Merger, and significant litigation costs that could adversely affect our financial condition. Since the announcement of the signing of the Merger Agreement, Zoltek, as well as the members of our Board of Directors, have been named as defendants in multiple lawsuits purportedly brought by our shareholders challenging the proposed Merger. The lawsuits generally allege, among other things, that the Merger fails to properly value Zoltek, that the individual defendants breached their fiduciary duties in approving the Merger Agreement and that those breaches were aided and abetted by the Company, Toray and Merger Sub. The lawsuits seek, among other things, injunctive relief to enjoin the defendants from completing the Merger on the agreed-upon terms, monetary relief and attorneys' fees and costs. One of the conditions to the closing of the Merger is that no injunction preventing the consummation of the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement shall be in effect and that no rule, regulation, order or injunction shall have been enacted, entered, promulgated or enforced by any governmental entity that prohibits or makes illegal the consummation of the Merger. Consequently, if the plaintiffs were to secure injunctive or other relief prohibiting, delaying, or otherwise adversely affecting the defendants' ability to complete the Merger, then such injunctive or other relief may prevent the Merger from becoming effective within the expected time frame or at all. If completion of the Merger is prevented or delayed, it could result in substantial costs to us and Toray. In addition, Zoltek and Toray are incurring and will continue incurring significant costs in connection with the lawsuits, including costs associated with the indemnification of our directors and officers. Our growth and profitability will depend on increases in demand for carbon fibers and entering into new supply relationships. Historically, our business has been adversely affected during periods of oversupply and capacity constraints. For years prior to fiscal 2004, our financial results were adversely affected by industry oversupply conditions which inhibited adoption of carbon fibers for non-aerospace applications as existing and potential customers were reluctant to commit to incorporate carbon fiber composites into their products due to concerns about the availability of carbon fiber in large volumes at predictable costs. During 2006 and 2007, the divergence in the aerospace and commercial applications and our new supply relationships with wind energy customers led to strains on our ability to meet all the demand from our wind energy customers and we were unable to take on new customers. We currently have sufficient capacity to meet demand from current wind energy customers and produce carbon fibers for additional large-scale applications. Our capacity expansion resulted in excess capacity costs of $2.8 million in fiscal 2012 which increased to $10.8 million in fiscal 2013. Our future profitability and growth will depend upon our ability to enter into supply relationships with new customers for existing applications utilizing our carbon fibers and the development of new markets for large-scale applications which incorporate our carbon fiber products. Development of new customers for existing applications and new markets for our carbon fiber products will require substantial technical, marketing and sales efforts and the expenditure of significant funds. Development of new markets for carbon fibers may not occur. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if new customers and markets for our carbon fiber products do not develop. Increases in sales of our carbon fiber products are subject to long sales cycles of our customers. Our future profitability and growth will depend primarily upon our ability to enter into supply relationships with new customers for existing applications utilizing our carbon fibers and the development of new markets for a broad range of large-scale applications which incorporate our carbon fiber products. Our ability to increase sales of our carbon fiber products is subject to relatively long sales cycles of our customers due to new product development, manufacturing and engineering investments our customers must make to incorporate carbon fiber composites into their products. A limited number of customers generate a significant portion of our revenue and they may terminate their contracts with us in the event of certain changes in control or may require that we make penalty payments if we fail to perform. For fiscal 2013, our largest customer represented 44.0% of our revenue and our three next largest customers accounted for a total of 21.7% of our revenue. We anticipate that significant customer concentration will continue for the foreseeable future, although the composition of our largest customers may change from period to period. A substantial portion of our total sales in fiscal 2013 were to customers for wind energy applications. Significant changes in demand for our customers’ wind turbines, the shares of their requirements that are awarded to us or changes in the design or materials used to construct their products could result in a significant loss of business with these customers. Our contracts with certain customers allow them to terminate their agreements with us or require us to make substantial penalty payments if we fail to perform our obligations under our agreements with them. The loss of, or significant reduction in the purchases by, these customers or any other significant customer could have a material adverse effect upon our future revenues and business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 10 We reported net losses from continuing operations for fiscal 2011, 2010, 2009, 2007 and each of the five fiscal years preceding it. Although we reported net income in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2008, we have reported losses from continuing operations of $4.2 million, $6.3 million and $3.6 million in fiscal 2009, 2010 and2011 respectively. We may be unable to operate profitably in fiscal 2014 or later years. Demand for our carbon fiber products may be adversely affected by the current economic and credit environment. The United States and international economies recently have experienced (and continue to experience) a period of slow economic growth. European economies currently are experiencing recessionary conditions and extreme uncertainty and growth in China has slowed. Current global economic conditions could contribute to a slowdown for products that require significant capital expenditures, including demand for large-scale projects that incorporate our carbon fibers. Our operations and sales in foreign countries are subject to risks. For fiscal 2013, approximately 59.7% of our revenues were derived from products supplied by our operations in Hungary. Our operations in Hungary and Mexico and our sales in other foreign countries are subject to risks associated with foreign operations and markets including the fact that many members of our senior management are resident in the United States, foreign currency fluctuations, changes in regulatory, economic or political conditions, tariffs and other trade barriers, longer payment cycles for accounts receivable, potentially adverse tax consequences, restrictions on repatriation of earnings and the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. These factors could have a material adverse effect upon our future revenues and business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Our ability to fund and manage our anticipated growth will affect our operating results. The growth in our business has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management and operations. In order to effectively manage potential long-term growth and to reach growth targets, we will need to add to our carbon fiber manufacturing capacity, have access to adequate financial resources to fund significant capital expenditures and working capital requirements and maintain gross profit margins. We must also pursue a growth strategy and continue to strengthen our operations, including our financial and management information systems, and expand, train and manage our employee workforce. There can be no assurance that we will be able to do so effectively or on a timely basis. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect upon our future revenues and business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Additionally, in the event that we need to obtain debt or equity financing in the future to fund our growth, we may not be able to obtain additional debt financing on favorable terms. Our operations are dependent upon our senior management and technical personnel. Our future operating results depend upon the continued service of our senior management including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Zsolt Rumy, and our technical, management and sales personnel in our domestic and international operations. Our future success will depend upon our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, sales and technical personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will retain our key managerial and technical employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining other highly qualified personnel in the future. Our operating results may fluctuate. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the timing of purchase orders for and shipments of our products, our ability to successfully operate our expanding production capacity and changes in production levels. Therefore, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results of operations have been and will be impacted by the timing of such orders and shipments. In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by these factors, among others, such as variations in the mix of product sales, price changes in response to competitive factors and interruptions in plant operations. Developments by competitors may reduce demand for our products and technologies, which may adversely affect our sales. We compete with various other participants in the advanced materials markets. All of our six principal competitors have substantially greater research and development, manufacturing, marketing, financial and managerial resources than we do. In addition, existing carbon fiber producers, including those that supply aerospace applications, may refocus their activities to produce carbon fiber for commercial applications that compete more directly with us and certain producers have announced plans to do so. Developments by existing or future competitors may render our products or technologies less competitive. In addition, we may not be able to keep pace with new technological developments. 11 The price volatility of many of our raw materials and energy costs may result in increased production costs, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. A substantial portion of our raw materials are subject to price volatility and a significant portion of our manufacturing costs are energy costs. We are not always able to increase product selling prices and, ultimately, pass on underlying cost increases to our customers. In addition, our competitors may be able to obtain raw materials at a lower cost than we can. Additional raw material and energy cost increases that we are not able to pass on to customers or the loss of key customers to competitors as a result of price increases could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We could be adversely affected by environmental and safety requirements. Our operations require the handling, use, storage and disposal of certain regulated materials and wastes. As a result, we are subject to various laws and regulations pertaining to pollution and protection of the environment, health and safety. These requirements govern, among other things, emissions to air, discharge to waters and the generation, handling, storage, treatment and disposal of waste and remediation of contaminated sites. We have made, and will continue to make, capital and other expenditures in order to comply with these laws and regulations. These laws and regulations and their interpretations are complex, change frequently and could become more stringent in the future. In addition, we may be required to comply with evolving environmental, health and safety laws, regulations or requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future or to address newly discovered information or conditions that require a response. Although most of our properties have been the subject of environmental site assessments, there can be no assurance that all potential instances of soil and groundwater contamination have been identified, even at those sites where assessments have been conducted. Accordingly, we may discover previously unknown environmental conditions and the cost of remediating such conditions may be material. Our business depends upon the maintenance of our proprietary technology. We depend upon our proprietary technology that generally is not subject to patent protection. We rely principally upon trade secret and copyright laws to protect our proprietary technology. We regularly enter into confidentiality agreements with our key employees, customers and potential customers and limit access to and distribution of our trade secrets and other proprietary information. These measures may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or to assure that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. In addition, the laws of other countries in which we operate may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We are also subject to the risk of adverse claims and litigation alleging infringement of intellectual property rights of third parties. We may be obligated to repay a grant from the Hungarian government if certain conditions are not met. In 2006, the Hungarian government pledged a grant of 2.9 billion Hungarian Forint (“HUF”) to Zoltek Zrt., our Hungarian subsidiary. Based on applicable exchange rates, the total value of such grant was approximately $13.1 million at September 30, 2013. As of September 30, 2013, Zoltek Zrt. had received an aggregate of approximately HUF 2.6 billion ($11.7 million) in funding pursuant to the grant. The grant was used to provide a portion of the capital resources to modernize Zoltek Zrt.’s facility, establish research and development facilities and support build-up of manufacturing capacity of carbon fibers. The grant contains various conditions under which Zoltek Zrt. may be required to pay back all or a portion of the grant, including, among other things, if Zoltek Zrt.: fails to obtain revenue targets; fails to employ an average annual staff of at least 1,200 employees; fails to utilize regional suppliers for at least 45% of its purchases; fails to obtain consent from the Hungarian government prior to selling assets created with grant funds; fails to use grant funds in accordance with the grant agreement; fails to provide appropriate security for the grant; makes or made an untrue statement or supplies or supplied false data in the grant agreement, grant application or during the time of the grant; defaults on its obligations by more than 30 days; withdraws any consents it gave in the grant agreement; or causes a partial or complete failure or hindrance of the project that is the subject of the grant. Certain of these conditions contain targets that must be satisfied during a five-year measurement period from October 2013 to October 2018. In November 2013, we petitioned the Hungarian government to amend the current grant requirements, specifically lower the required employment levels and separate each year into its own measurement period rather than a single five-year measurement period. Whether or not our petition is approved by the Hungarian government, we expect that Zoltek Zrt. will comply with the requirements of the grant agreement during the measurement period. If Zoltek Zrt. is unable to comply with the grant agreement, it would be required to pay back all or a portion of the grant funds with possible interest which as of September 30, 2013 could total up to $16.6 million and our results could be adversely affected. We have incurred and will continue to incur substantial costs and demands upon our management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could affect our operating results and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified management. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur substantial legal, accounting and other expenses, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. We also have incurred and will incur costs associated with corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and Nasdaq. These rules and regulations impose legal and financial compliance costs on us. It is possible that these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage than used to be available. As a result, it may be difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as our executive officers. 12 Our stock price has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate. Our stock price has fluctuated substantially over the past several years. Future announcements concerning us or our competitors or customers, quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations, the introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors, developments regarding proprietary rights, changes in earnings estimates by analysts or reports regarding us or our industry in the financial press or investment advisory publications, among other factors, could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, stock prices for many emerging growth companies fluctuate widely for reasons often unrelated to operating results. These fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rates, world events, military conflicts or market-sector declines, may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Any information concerning us, including projections of future operating results, appearing in investment advisory publications or on-line bulletin boards, or otherwise emanating from a source other than from us, should not be relied upon as having been supplied or endorsed by us. A change of control of our company may be discouraged, delayed or prevented by our classified board of directors, our ability to issue preferred stock, or the voting control of our principal shareholder. Our Articles of Incorporation divide the board of directors into three classes, with three-year staggered terms. The classified board provision could increase the likelihood that, in the event an outside party acquired a controlling block of our stock, incumbent directors nevertheless would retain their positions for a substantial period, which may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. The possible impact of such discouragement, delay or prevention of takeover attempts could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our Articles of Incorporation also authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the board of directors. Accordingly, the board of directors is empowered, without shareholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of common stock. Holders of common stock will have no preemptive rights to subscribe for a pro rata portion of any preferred stock that may be issued. If issued, the preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. The possible impact that the issuance of preferred stock could have on a takeover attempt could adversely affect the price of the common stock. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of preferred stock, we may do so in the future. Zsolt Rumy, our founder and principal shareholder, owns approximately 18.1% of outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, he has and will continue to have significant voting control over our company. In connection with the Merger Agreement, Mr. Rumy, solely in his capacity as a shareholder of the Company, entered into a voting agreement with Toray pursuant to when Mr. Rumy agreed to vote in favor of the Merger and the approval of the Merger Agreement, subject to certain conditions. Future sales of common stock could affect the price of our common stock. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of shares or the availability of shares for sale will have on the market price of our common stock prevailing from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales might occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not currently intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your common stock for the foreseeable future. 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 