Item 1A. Risk Factors. We have incurred significant losses on our insured products as a result of deterioration in national and regional economic conditions and we could incur significant additional losses in the future. As a seller of credit protection, our results are subject to macroeconomic conditions and specific events that impact the production environment and credit performance of our underlying insured assets. Many of these conditions are beyond our control, including extended national or regional economic recessions, home price depreciation and unemployment, interest rate changes or volatility, deterioration in lending markets, and other factors. The economic recession that began in the U.S. in 2007, characterized by a nation-wide decline in home prices, high unemployment, deteriorating credit performance of mortgage and other assets and reduced liquidity for many participants in the mortgage and financial services industries, has had a negative impact on the operating environment and results of operations for each of our business segments. In particular, our results of 67 Table of Contents operations and financial condition have been particularly affected by weakening economic conditions, such as depreciating home values and unemployment. We have experienced increased delinquencies and claims in our mortgage insurance business, primarily driven by the poor performance of our late 2005 through the first half of 2008 insured books of business. Deterioration in general economic conditions, including elevated levels of unemployment and a broad decline in home prices, has increased the likelihood that borrowers will default on their mortgages. Falling home prices have increased the likelihood that borrowers with the ability to make their mortgage payments may voluntarily default on their mortgages when their mortgage balances exceed the value of their homes. We also believe that some borrowers may voluntarily default to take advantage of certain loan modification programs currently being offered or that may be offered in the future. Falling home prices make it more difficult for us to mitigate our losses when a default occurs. See “Our loss mitigation strategies are less effective in markets where housing values fail to appreciate or continue to decline.” At December 31, 2009, approximately 54.5% of our primary mortgage insurance risk in force was concentrated in 10 states, with the highest percentages being in California, Florida and Texas. A large percentage of our second-lien mortgage insurance risk in force also is concentrated in California and Texas. Deteriorating markets in California and Florida, where non-prime and non-traditional mortgage products such as ARMs and interest-only loans are prevalent and where home prices have fallen significantly, have resulted in significant losses in our mortgage insurance business. During the prolonged period of rising home prices that preceded the current downturn in the U.S. housing market, very few mortgage delinquencies and claims were attributable to insured loans in California, despite the significant growth during this period of riskier, non-traditional mortgage products in this state. As mortgage credit performance in California and Florida has deteriorated, given the size of these markets, our loss experience has been significantly affected and will continue to be negatively affected if conditions do not improve or continue to deteriorate. In addition to California and Florida, approximately 12.2% of our primary mortgage insurance risk in force at December 31, 2009 was concentrated in the Midwestern states of Michigan, Illinois and Ohio. This region has continued to experience higher default rates in 2009, which we believe are largely attributable to the difficult operating environment facing the domestic auto industry. We expect that this trend may continue. Our financial guaranty portfolio also has been negatively impacted by deterioration in the credit markets and the overall economy. See “Our financial guaranty portfolio has experienced deterioration as result of general erosion in credit markets and the overall economy and is susceptible to further deterioration” below. Our financial guaranty business also has a significant portion of its insurance risk in force concentrated in a small number of states, principally including California, Texas, New York, Pennsylvania, and Illinois, and could be materially and adversely affected by a continued and prolonged weakening of economic conditions in these states. The current economic downturn and related disruption in the housing and credit markets could persist throughout 2010 and beyond. Although there has been some recent stabilization of the U.S. economy, it is difficult to predict with any degree of certainty if and when a complete recovery of the economy will occur, including a reduction in unemployment and a broad and lasting recovery in the domestic housing market. As a result, there is a great deal of uncertainty regarding our ultimate loss performance. The potential for a deepening and prolonged recession in the U.S., including rising or continued high unemployment rates and further deterioration in the housing market, may add further stress on the performance of our insured assets, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the impact of housing and credit market deterioration, our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted by natural disasters or other catastrophic events, acts of terrorism, conflicts, event specific economic depressions or other harmful events in the regions, including in foreign countries, where our business is concentrated. 68 Table of Contents Our loss mitigation strategies are less effective in markets where housing values fail to appreciate or continue to decline. The amount of mortgage insurance loss we suffer depends in part on whether the home of a borrower who has defaulted on a mortgage can be sold for an amount that will cover unpaid principal and interest on the mortgage and expenses from the sale. If a borrower defaults under our standard mortgage insurance policy, we generally have the option of paying the entire loss amount and taking title to a mortgaged property or paying our coverage percentage in full satisfaction of our obligations under the policy. In many instances in the past, we have been able to take title to the properties underlying the defaulted loans and sell the properties quickly at prices that have allowed us to recover some or all of our losses. In the current housing market downturn, our ability to mitigate our losses in such a manner has been significantly reduced. If housing values continue to decline, or decline more significantly and/or on a broader geographic basis than is currently anticipated, the frequency of loans going to claim could increase and our ability to mitigate our losses on defaulted mortgages may be significantly reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A large portion of our mortgage insurance risk in force consists of higher risk loans, such as non-prime and high-LTV loans, pool mortgage insurance and non-traditional mortgage products. High-LTV Mortgages. We provide mortgage insurance on residential mortgage loans made mostly to home buyers who make down payments of less than 20% of the home’s purchase price. As a result, we typically insure loans where borrowers’ have less equity at risk at origination than borrowers who make larger down payments; therefore, with respect to this loan characteristic, the loans we insure often have a higher propensity to default relative to the total mortgage market. In addition, of the mortgage loans that we insure, a portion of our mortgage insurance in force consists of insurance on mortgage loans with LTVs at origination of greater than 95%. At December 31, 2009, our mortgage insurance risk in force related to these loans represented 20.5% of our total primary insurance risk in force. We believe mortgage loans with LTVs greater than 95% default substantially more often than those with lower LTVs. In addition, when we are required to pay a claim on a higher LTV loan, it is generally more difficult to recover our costs from the underlying property, especially in areas with declining property values. We have altered our underwriting criteria to significantly restrict the number of new loans with LTVs greater than 95% and have adopted more stringent guidelines for loans with LTVs greater than 90%. While we believe these changes have improved our overall risk profile of new business written, in the near term, our results of operations and financial condition likely continue to be negatively affected by the performance of our existing insured loans with high-LTVs. Non-Prime Loans. A large percentage of the mortgage insurance we wrote in years 2005 through 2007 and, consequently, our existing mortgage insurance risk in force, is related to non-prime loans. At December 31, 2009, our non-prime mortgage insurance risk in force, including Alt-A, was approximately 20% of our total primary insurance risk in force. Historically, non-prime loans are more likely to result in claims than prime loans. In addition, our non-prime business, in particular Alt-A loans, tends to have larger loan balances relative to other loans, which likely results in larger claims. We have experienced a significant increase in mortgage loan defaults related to Alt-A loans originated in 2005 through 2007. These losses have occurred more rapidly and well in excess of historical loss patterns, and have contributed in large part to the significant increase in our provision for losses. If delinquency and default to claim rates on non-prime loans continue to increase as is expected, in particular in California, Florida and other states where the Alt-A product is prevalent, our results of operations and financial condition will continue to be negatively affected. Pool Mortgage Insurance. We offer pool mortgage insurance, which exposes us to an increased risk of greater loss severity compared to primary mortgage insurance. Our pool mortgage insurance products generally cover all losses in a pool of loans up to our aggregate exposure limit, which generally is between 1% and 10% of the initial aggregate loan balance of the entire pool of loans. Under pool insurance, we could be required to pay the full claim amount of every loan in the pool within our exposure limits and upon which a claim is made until 69 Table of Contents the aggregate limit is reached, rather than a percentage of the loan amount, as is the case with traditional primary mortgage insurance. At December 31, 2009, approximately 7% of our total mortgage insurance risk in force was attributable to pool insurance. NIMS. We have provided credit enhancement on NIMS. NIMS have been particularly susceptible to the disruption in the mortgage credit markets, and we stopped writing insurance on NIMS in 2007. We expect all of our NIMS to result in credit losses, with most payments expected to occur in 2011 and 2012. The fair value of our total net liabilities related to NIMS as of December 31, 2009 was $275.8 million. Because our future expected credit losses are greater than the carrying value of our liability related to NIMS, we expect an additional negative impact of $77.4 million to our results of operations related to NIMS in future periods. We insure adjustable rate loans that have resulted in significant losses and are expected to result in further losses. At December 31, 2009, approximately 15% of our primary mortgage insurance risk in force consisted of ARMs, which include loans with negative amortization features, such as pay option ARMs. Our claim frequency on ARMs has been higher than on fixed-rate loans due to monthly payment increases that occur when interest rates rise or when the “teaser rate” (an initial interest rate that does not fully reflect the index which determines subsequent rates) expires. We consider a loan to be an ARM if the interest rate for that loan will reset at any point during the life of the loan. However, it has been our experience that ARMs with resets of less than five years from origination are more likely to result in a claim than longer-term ARMs. ARMs with resets of less than five years represented approximately half of our total primary risk in force related to ARMs at December 31, 2009. Approximately 7% of the ARMs that we insure are scheduled to have initial interest rate resets in 2010. At December 31, 2009, approximately 8% of our primary mortgage insurance risk in force consisted of interest-only mortgages (including approximately 4% of our primary mortgage insurance risk in force consisting of interest-only mortgages that are ARMs), where the borrower pays only the interest on a mortgage for a specified period of time, usually five to ten years, after which the loan payment increases to include principal payments. We believe that, similar to ARMs, these loans have a heightened propensity to default because of possible “payment shocks” after the initial low-payment period expires and because the borrower does not automatically build equity as payments are made. Reduced liquidity in the mortgage market, tighter underwriting standards, and declining home prices in many regions in the U.S. have combined to make it more difficult for many borrowers with ARMs and interest-only mortgages to refinance their mortgages into fixed rate products. As a result, without available alternatives, many borrowers have been forced into default when their interest rates reset at a higher rate. This has resulted in significant losses for mortgage lenders and insurers as well as investors in the secondary market. Although there can be no assurance, the historically low level of interest rates in the current mortgage market may help to reduce the size of interest payment increases (and in some cases eliminate any increase) for loans resetting in the near future. In addition, the emergence of federal and private loan refinance and modification programs intended to allow borrowers to refinance or modify their existing loan structures, may allow borrowers that would not otherwise qualify for a loan refinance or modification to convert to fixed rate loans. In the long-term, however, absent a change in the current lending environment or a positive mitigating effect from federal and private measures aimed at reducing defaults from adjustable rate resets, defaults related to these products may continue to increase. If this occurs, our results of operations will be negatively affected, possibly significantly, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Insurance rescissions and claim denials may not continue at the levels we have recently experienced. We have had a significant increase in insurance rescissions and denials of claims made due to fraud, misrepresentation or other violations of our insurance policies. In 2009, we rescinded or denied 70 Table of Contents approximately $904 million of first-lien claims submitted to us for payment compared to approximately $166 million in 2008. These rescissions and denials have materially mitigated our paid losses and resulted in a significant reduction in our reserve for losses. Although we expect these rescissions and denials to continue in light of our significant default inventory, we can provide no assurance that rescissions and denials will continue at the increased levels we have recently experienced or will continue to materially mitigate paid losses. In addition, the insured lenders may dispute our right to rescind coverage or deny a claim, which dispute may be made several years after such rescission or denial and could result in arbitration or judicial proceedings. We may be unsuccessful in such proceedings, which may be costly and time consuming. Our recent experience with respect to increased insurance rescissions and claim denials has also heightened the risk of disputes with our customers, which could potentially lead to the loss of one or more customers or to litigation. See “Because our mortgage insurance business is concentrated among a few significant customers, our new insurance written and franchise value could decline if we lose any significant customer” and “We are subject to the risk of private litigation and regulatory proceedings.” The determination of our reserve for losses involves significant use of estimates with regard to the likelihood, magnitude and timing of a loss, including an estimate of the number of defaulted loans that will be successfully rescinded or denied. If the actual number of rescissions and denials is much lower than our estimate, our losses may be materially affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For additional information regarding the determination of a reserve for losses, see Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies—Reserve for Losses” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Losses in our mortgage insurance business have reduced Radian Guaranty’s statutory surplus and increased Radian Guaranty’s risk-to-capital ratio; additional losses in our mortgage insurance portfolio or financial guaranty portfolio without a corresponding increase in new capital or capital relief could further negatively impact these ratios, which could limit Radian Guaranty’s ability to write new insurance and could increase restrictions and requirements placed on Radian Guaranty. The GSEs, rating agencies and state insurance regulators impose various capital requirements on our insurance subsidiaries. These capital requirements include risk-to-capital ratios, risk-based capital measures and surplus requirements that limit the amount of insurance that our insurance subsidiaries may write. Sixteen states currently have a statutory or regulatory requirement limiting a mortgage insurer’s risk-to-capital ratio to 25 to 1. As a result of the significant losses we experienced in our mortgage insurance business, Radian Guaranty’s risk-to-capital ratio grew from 8.1 to 1 at December 31, 2006 to 15.4 to 1 at December 31, 2009, after giving effect to the contribution of our financial guaranty business to our mortgage insurance business during the third quarter of 2008. Based on current and expected future trends, we believe that we may continue to incur material losses in our mortgage insurance business. The ultimate amount of losses will depend in part on general economic conditions and other factors, including the health of credit markets, home prices and unemployment rates, all of which are difficult to predict and beyond our control. In the absence of additional new capital or capital relief through reinsurance or otherwise, Radian Guaranty’s risk-to-capital ratio is expected to increase during 2010 and could reach 25 to 1 before the end of the year if losses are materially worse than our current expectations. We, along with others in our industry, are seeking regulatory changes or relief in those states that impose a 25 to 1 risk-to-capital requirement, primarily through new legislation or other means by which the insurance regulator in these states is granted discretionary authority to waive the 25 to 1 risk-to-capital requirement. Although these efforts have been successful in some states, it is uncertain whether regulatory changes or relief will be obtained in the remaining states in sufficient time to avoid a breach of the 25 to 1 limitation in these states. Further, in those states that currently allow for discretionary authority, there can be no assurance that the regulators in these states will exercise their discretion to permit us to write new business in the event that we exceed the 25 to 1 limitation, how long such regulators may allow any waiver of this requirement to exist or what, if any, other requirements may be imposed. Moreover, in those states that do not have a capital adequacy 71 Table of Contents requirement in the form of a 25 to 1 limitation, it is not clear what actions the applicable state regulators would take if we failed to meet the capital adequacy requirement established by another state. Accordingly, if we fail to meet the capital adequacy requirements in one or more states, Radian Guaranty could be required to suspend writing business in some or all of the states in which we do business. We are actively managing Radian Guaranty’s risk-to-capital ratio by exploring alternatives to address our mortgage insurance capital needs, including potentially raising capital through one or more private or public offerings of debt or equity securities and by freeing up capital for use through liquidation of certain of our investments and through reinsurance or other risk transfer arrangements. See Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot provide any assurance as to whether we will embark upon or we will be successful in implementing any of these alternatives, many of which require regulatory and other approvals, or whether the capital or capital relief obtained through such alternatives will be sufficient to maintain our risk-to-capital ratio at or below 25 to 1. Any future equity offerings could be dilutive to our existing stockholders, could result in a decrease in the price of our common stock, or could result in the issuance of securities that have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common stock. We are also preparing, if necessary, to write new first-lien mortgage insurance business through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Amerin Guaranty, in those states that continue to impose a 25 to 1 risk-to-capital requirement. We have received preliminary approval from the Pennsylvania Department of Insurance to use Amerin Guaranty as a first-lien mortgage insurance provider and are in the process of redomesticating Amerin Guaranty from Illinois to Pennsylvania for this purpose. However, before Amerin Guaranty may write first-lien mortgage insurance, we will need to add sufficient capital to Amerin Guaranty either from internal resources or from new capital and also will need to seek and obtain necessary regulatory or other approvals, including from the GSEs. Amerin Guaranty is currently prohibited from writing new insurance business in six states without the addition of new capital. We cannot provide any assurance as to whether we will be successful in sufficiently capitalizing Amerin Guaranty or whether we will obtain the necessary approvals for implementing this alternative. If Radian Guaranty’s risk-to-capital ratio were to exceed 25 to 1, state insurance regulators might limit the amount of new insurance business that Radian Guaranty may write or prohibit Radian Guaranty from writing new insurance altogether in their respective states, including those states that do not currently impose a 25 to 1 limitation. In addition, the GSEs and our other customers may decide not to conduct new business with Radian Guaranty (or reduce current business levels) while its risk-to-capital ratio remained at elevated levels. This could ultimately result in a loss of Radian Guaranty’s eligibility with the GSEs. The franchise value of our mortgage insurance business would likely be significantly diminished if Radian Guaranty was prohibited from writing new business or restricted in the amount of new business it could write, especially in the event we are unable to execute on our strategy for writing new first-lien mortgage insurance through Amerin Guaranty. In addition, any restriction on Radian Guaranty’s ability to continue to write new insurance would likely harm our ability to attract new capital. We and our insurance subsidiaries are subject to comprehensive, detailed regulation, principally designed for the protection of our insured policyholders, rather than for the benefit of investors, by the insurance departments in the various states where our insurance subsidiaries are licensed to transact business. Insurance laws vary from state to state, but generally grant broad supervisory powers to agencies or officials to examine insurance companies and enforce rules or exercise discretion affecting almost every significant aspect of the insurance business, including the power to revoke or restrict an insurance company’s ability to write new business. Given the significant losses incurred by many insurers in the mortgage and financial guaranty industries, our insurance subsidiaries have been subject to heightened scrutiny by insurance regulators. We are currently in close communication with certain insurance regulatory authorities. Additionally, the HKIA has directed Radian Insurance to continue to maintain sufficient assets in Hong Kong to cover its potential liabilities on insured loans 72 Table of Contents in Hong Kong. In light of current market conditions and ongoing losses in our insurance subsidiaries, insurance departments in the jurisdictions noted above or in other jurisdictions could impose restrictions or requirements that could have a material adverse impact on our businesses. The long-term capital adequacy of Radian Guaranty depends, in part, upon the performance of our financial guaranty portfolio. During the third quarter of 2008, Radian Group contributed its ownership interest in Radian Asset Assurance to Radian Guaranty. While this reorganization provided Radian Guaranty with substantial regulatory capital, it also makes the capital adequacy of our mortgage insurance business dependent, to a significant degree, on the performance of our financial guaranty business. If the performance of our financial guaranty portfolio deteriorates materially, including if we are required to establish one or more significant statutory reserves as a result of defaults in our insured obligations, the regulatory capital of Radian Guaranty also would be negatively impacted. Any decrease in the capital support derived from our financial guaranty business could, therefore, negatively impact the franchise value of our mortgage insurance business, and potentially lead to our inability to continue to write new mortgage insurance business. See “Our financial guaranty portfolio has experienced deterioration as a result of general erosion in credit markets and the overall economy and is susceptible to further deterioration” and “We face risks associated with our financial guaranty insurance customers and our second-to-pay liabilities from these entities.” As of December 31, 2009, Radian Asset Assurance maintained a statutory surplus of approximately $1.1 billion and total claims paying resources of approximately $2.6 billion. We expect our financial guaranty business to issue significant dividends to Radian Guaranty over time as our existing financial guaranty portfolio matures and the exposure is reduced. The timing and amount of these cash infusions will depend on the dividend capacity of our financial guaranty business, which is governed by New York insurance laws. If our financial guaranty exposure is reduced on an accelerated basis through the recapture of insured business from our primary financial guaranty reinsurance customers or otherwise, we may have the ability to issue dividends to Radian Guaranty more quickly and in greater amounts. If, however, the performance of our financial guaranty portfolio deteriorates materially, our financial guaranty statutory surplus could be reduced and our financial guaranty business would likely have less capacity to issue dividends to Radian Guaranty, and could be restricted from issuing dividends altogether. Our financial guaranty portfolio has experienced deterioration as a result of general erosion in credit markets and the overall economy and is susceptible to further deterioration. As discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview of Business Results—Financial Guaranty—Credit Performance,” in Item 7 of Part II below, we have experienced credit deterioration in our financial guaranty portfolio as a result of general deterioration in credit markets and the overall economy. In particular, we have experienced credit deterioration within our insured portfolio of TruPs CDOs. For our CDO of ABS transaction with $465.5 million in net par outstanding as of December 31, 2009, we currently expect to begin paying claims in respect of interest shortfalls in 2010. Upon our initial claim payment obligation, the statutory capital of Radian Asset Assurance (and consequently Radian Guaranty) would be reduced by an amount equal to the present value of our expected future net losses (net of taxes on this transaction). See Risk in Force/Net Par Outstanding—Financial Guaranty (Risk in 73 Table of Contents Force/Net Par Outstanding)—Structured Finance Insured CDO Portfolio (Risk in Force/Net Par Outstanding-Financial Guaranty) for additional information regarding this CDO of ABS transaction and certain circumstances where we may be obligated to pay outstanding principal prior to the legal final maturity date of our TruPs CDOs. While we have sought to underwrite our insured credits with levels of subordination designed to protect us from loss in the event of poor performance of the underlying collateral, we cannot be certain that such levels of subordination will protect us from future material losses in light of the significantly higher rates of delinquency and losses currently being observed within our insured credits. We have guaranteed structured finance obligations that expose us to a variety of complex credit risks and indirectly to market, political and other risks beyond those that generally apply to financial guarantees of public finance obligations. We have insured and reinsured certain asset-backed transactions and securitizations secured by one or a few classes of assets, such as residential mortgages, auto loans and leases, credit card receivables and other consumer assets, both funded and synthetic. We have also insured obligations under CDS, including CDOs of several asset classes, such as corporate debt, TruPs, RMBS, CMBS and other ABS obligations. We continue to have exposure to trade credit reinsurance (which is currently in run-off), which protects sellers of goods under certain circumstances against nonpayment of their accounts receivable. Losses associated with our structured finance and trade credit reinsurance businesses are difficult to predict accurately and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results, especially given the current economic disruption. In addition to our structured finance risk, we have significant exposure to public finance obligations that are susceptible to default in an economic downturn. Historically, our financial guaranty public finance business has focused on smaller, regional, lower investment-grade issuers and structures that were uneconomical for most of the larger, higher-rated financial guarantors to insure. As a result, we have greater exposure than other monoline financial guarantors to sectors such as healthcare and long-term care and education that historically have had higher default rates than other public finance sectors. These credits, which generally cover smaller, more rural and specialized issuers, tend to be lower rated and more susceptible to default in an economic downturn. We face risks associated with our financial guaranty insurance customers and our second-to-pay liabilities from these entities. As a result of rating agency downgrades of our financial guaranty insurance subsidiaries’ financial strength ratings, all of our unaffiliated primary reinsurance customers in our financial guaranty reinsurance business currently have the right to take back or recapture an aggregate of $26.3 billion of business previously ceded to us under their reinsurance agreements with us. While our treaties with our primary reinsurance customers do not permit our reinsurance customers to selectively recapture business previously ceded to us under their treaties, because we have entered into multiple treaties with each customer it is possible that a customer may choose to recapture business only under those treaties that they perceive as covering less risky portions of our reinsurance portfolio. This could potentially leave us with risk that is more concentrated in troubled asset classes. Our reinsurance customers are primarily responsible for surveillance, loss mitigation and salvage on the risks that they cede to us. Some of these customers are experiencing financial difficulties, and therefore, may be less willing to or capable of performing these tasks to the extent necessary to minimize potential losses and/or maximize potential salvage on the credits we reinsure. Due to their current financial difficulties, they may have different incentives to eliminate long-term liabilities at a current discount than we do. We generally do not have direct access to the insured obligation or the right to perform our own loss mitigation or salvage work on these transactions. We also have limited visibility with respect to the performance of many of the obligations we reinsure. See “If the estimates we use in establishing loss reserves for our mortgage insurance or financial guaranty businesses are incorrect, we may be required to take unexpected charges to income and could hurt our capital position” below. In addition, our primary reinsurance customers may delegate their loss adjustment functions to third parties, the cost of which would then be proportionally allocated to us and any other reinsurers for the insured transaction. Accordingly, the losses and loss adjustment expenses allocated to us on our reinsured risks may be significantly higher than otherwise would have been the case if we were responsible for 74 Table of Contents surveillance, loss mitigation and salvage for these risks. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Approximately $24.6 billion or 92.4% of Radian Asset Assurance’s net par reinsurance exposure outstanding as of December 31, 2009, was ceded from primary insurer customers that are subsidiaries of one holding company. Consequently, such financial guaranty reinsurance is now dependent upon the surveillance and loss mitigation abilities of primary insurers under this one holding company. We have insured several transactions on a second-to-pay basis, meaning that we are obligated to pay claims in these transactions only to the extent that another insurer fails to pay such a policy claim. Consequently, if the conservator for an insolvent financial guarantor rejects payment of all or a portion of a claim, we may be required to pay all or a portion of such claim. Because many insurers are currently experiencing significant financial difficulties, the likelihood of our having to pay a claim on our second-to-pay transactions has increased. In 2009, two of the companies that are the primary obligors on certain of the transactions for which we have provided second-to-pay protection, Syncora Guarantee Inc. and Financial Guaranty Insurance Company (“FGIC”), suspended all claims payments following orders by the NYID. However, to date, we have not been obligated to pay claims on any of these transactions. Because most of the mortgage loans that we insure are sold to Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, changes in their charters or business practices could significantly impact our mortgage insurance business. Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae are the beneficiaries of the majority of our mortgage insurance policies. Freddie Mac’s and Fannie Mae’s federal charters generally prohibit them from purchasing any mortgage with a loan amount that exceeds 80% of a home’s value, unless that mortgage is insured by a qualified insurer or the mortgage seller retains at least a 10% participation in the loan or agrees to repurchase the loan in the event of a default. As a result, high-LTV mortgages purchased by Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae generally are insured with private mortgage insurance. Changes in the charters or business practices of Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae could reduce the number of mortgages they purchase that are insured by us and consequently diminish our franchise value. In particular, Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae may have the ability to: • implement new eligibility requirements for mortgage insurers and alter or liberalize underwriting standards on low-down-payment mortgages they purchase (see “We could lose our eligibility status with the GSEs, causing Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae to decide not to purchase mortgages insured by us, which would significantly impair our mortgage insurance franchise” below); • alter the terms on which mortgage insurance coverage may be canceled before reaching the cancellation thresholds established by law; • require private mortgage insurers to perform activities intended to avoid or mitigate loss on insured mortgages that are in default; and • influence a mortgage lender’s selection of the mortgage insurer providing coverage. Some of Freddie Mac’s and Fannie Mae’s more recent programs require less insurance coverage than they historically have required, and they have the ability to further reduce coverage requirements, which could reduce the amount of mortgage insurance purchased and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. For a number of years, the GSEs have had programs under which lenders could choose, for certain loans, a mortgage insurance coverage percentage that was only the minimum required by the GSE’s charter, with the GSEs paying a lower price for these loans (“charter coverage”). The GSEs have also had programs under which, for certain loans, they would accept a level of mortgage insurance above the requirements of their charters, but below their standard coverage without any decrease in the purchase price they would pay for these loans (“reduced coverage”). In September 2009, Fannie Mae announced that, effective January 1, 2010, it would expand broadly the types of loans eligible for charter coverage, and also that it would eliminate its reduced 75 Table of Contents coverage program in the second quarter of 2010. To the extent lenders selling loans to Fannie Mae chose charter coverage for loans that we insure, our revenues would likely be reduced. The GSEs’ business practices may be impacted by their results of operations as well as legislative or regulatory changes governing their operations. In July 2008, an overhaul of regulatory oversight of the GSEs was enacted. The new provisions, contained within HERA, encompass substantially all of the GSEs’ operations. This new law abolished the former regulator for the GSEs and created a new, stronger regulator, the FHFA, in addition to other oversight reforms. In September 2008, the FHFA was appointed as the conservator of the GSEs to control and direct the operations of the GSEs. The appointment of a conservator may increase the likelihood that the business practices of the GSEs will be changed in ways that may have a material adverse effect on us. In particular, if the private mortgage insurance industry does not have the ability, due to capital constraints, to continue to write sufficient business to meet the needs of the GSEs, the GSEs may seek alternatives other than private mortgage insurance to conduct their business. The appointment of a conservator also increases the likelihood that the U.S. Congress will examine the role and purpose of the GSEs in the domestic housing market and potentially make certain structural and other changes to the GSEs. It is uncertain when such changes could be proposed, which could be as early as spring of 2010, and what the proposals would entail, which could include the abolishment of the GSEs and the replacement of the GSEs with a yet to be determined new system. Although we believe that private mortgage insurance will continue to play an important role in any future structure involving the GSEs, there is a possibility that new federal legislation could reduce the level of private mortgage insurance coverage used by the GSEs as credit enhancement or perhaps even eliminate the requirement altogether. In connection with the Homeownership Affordability and Stability Plan, the FHFA will allow the GSEs to refinance their own qualifying loans without mortgage insurance if the original loan does not have mortgage insurance. We could lose our eligibility status with the GSEs, causing Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae to decide not to purchase mortgages insured by us, which would significantly impair our mortgage insurance franchise. In order to maintain the highest level of eligibility with Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, mortgage insurers have historically been required to maintain an insurer financial strength rating of AA- or Aa3 from at least two of the three ratings agencies by which they are customarily rated. If a mortgage insurer were to lose such eligibility, Freddie Mac and/or Fannie Mae could restrict the mortgage insurer from conducting certain types of business with them, or take actions that may include not purchasing loans insured by the mortgage insurer. In light of the housing market downturn, both Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae have indicated that loss of mortgage insurer eligibility due to such a downgrade will no longer be automatic and will be subject to review if and when the downgrade occurs. We are aware of at least one private mortgage insurance company that has lost its top tier eligibility with Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. The eligibility requirements are subject to change from time to time, and the GSEs recently have proposed modifying their eligibility requirements. We do not know whether or when such modifications may be implemented, or the form that any such modifications may take. Our mortgage insurance subsidiaries have been downgraded substantially below AA-/Aa3 by S&P and Moody’s. In response to these ratings actions, we have presented business and financial plans to Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae for how to restore profitability and ultimately regain a higher rating for our mortgage insurance business. See “The long-term capital adequacy of Radian Guaranty depends, in part, upon the performance of our financial guaranty portfolio” above for risks associated with this plan. Our ratings are also driven by the rating agencies’ views of the mortgage insurance industry as a whole. If the capital credit we receive from the rating agencies and GSEs with respect to our plans is less than they believe may be required by our mortgage insurance business, we could lose our eligibility with the GSEs and/or be further downgraded by the rating agencies. Our remediation plans include projections of our future financial performance, including the effect of significant changes to the underwriting and pricing of our business. Although their initial reactions to our plans were favorable, we cannot be certain that either of the GSEs will accept our plans or if we will be able to retain our eligibility status with either of them. Loss of our eligibility status with the GSEs would likely have an 76 Table of Contents immediate and material adverse impact on the franchise value of our mortgage insurance business and our future prospects and could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. A decrease in the volume of home mortgage originations could result in fewer opportunities for us to write new insurance business. Our ability to write new business depends, among other things, on a steady flow of high-LTV mortgages that require our mortgage insurance. The deterioration in the credit performance of non-prime and other forms of non-conforming loans has caused lenders to substantially reduce the availability of non-prime mortgages and most other loan products that are not conforming loans, and to significantly tighten their underwriting standards. Fewer loan products and tighter loan qualifications, while improving the overall quality of new mortgage originations, have in turn reduced the number of qualified homebuyers and made it more difficult for buyers (in particular first-time buyers) to obtain mortgage financing or to refinance their existing mortgages. In addition, the significant disruption in the housing and related credit markets has led to reduced investor demand for mortgage loans and MBS in the secondary market, which historically has been an available source of funding for many mortgage lenders. This has significantly reduced liquidity in the mortgage funding marketplace, forcing many lenders to retain a larger portion of their mortgage loans and MBS and leaving them with less capacity to continue to originate new mortgages. If the volume of new mortgage originations continues to decrease or persists at low levels for a prolonged period of time, we may experience fewer opportunities to write new insurance business, which could reduce our existing insurance in force and have a significant negative effect on both our ability to execute our business plans and our overall franchise value. Because our mortgage insurance business is concentrated among a few significant customers, our new insurance written and franchise value could decline if we lose any significant customer. Our mortgage insurance business depends to a significant degree on a small number of lending customers. As of December 31, 2009, our top 10 mortgage insurance customers were generally responsible for over half of our primary new insurance written in 2009 and two mortgage insurance customers each accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues. Accordingly, maintaining our business relationships and business volumes with our largest lending customers is important to the success of our business. Challenging market conditions have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the financial condition of a number of our largest lending customers. These customers could become subject to serious financial constraints that may jeopardize the viability of their business plans or their access to additional capital, forcing them to consider alternatives such as bankruptcy or consolidation with others in the industry. In addition, as a result of current market conditions, our lending customers may seek to diversify their exposure to any one or more mortgage insurers, may decide to write business only with those mortgage insurers that they perceive to have the strongest financial position, or may decide to write more business with the FHA. See “Our mortgage insurance business faces intense competition.” In response to the general deterioration in housing markets, we have tightened our underwriting guidelines, which has resulted in our declining to insure some of the loans originated by our larger customers. We have also increased our pricing to reflect the increased risk of default in the current economic and housing downturn. Our increased pricing and tighter guidelines could negatively affect our relationships with our customers, potentially resulting in customers choosing to limit the amount of business they conduct with us. The loss of business from even one of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on the amount of new business we are able to write, and consequently, our franchise value. Our master policies and related lender agreements do not, and by law cannot, require our mortgage insurance customers to do business with us, and we cannot be certain that any loss of business from a single lender will be recouped from other lending customers in the industry. 77 Table of Contents From time to time, we have disputes with our customers. If not resolved, these disputes could lead to arbitration or litigation proceedings. Our recent experience with respect to increased insurance rescissions and claim denials have resulted in increased objections to certain insurance rescissions and claim denials, increasing the risk of disputes with our customers, which could potentially lead to the loss of one or more customers or to litigation with customers. If we engage in material litigation with any customer, the customer could decide to limit the amount of business they conduct with us or terminate our business relationship altogether, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our mortgage insurance business faces intense competition. The U.S. mortgage insurance industry is highly dynamic and intensely competitive. Our competitors include other private mortgage insurers and federal and state governmental and quasi-governmental agencies, principally the VA and the FHA, which has significantly increased its competitive position in the mortgage market. Governmental and quasi-governmental entities typically do not have the same capital requirements that we and other mortgage insurance companies have, and therefore, may have greater financial flexibility in their pricing and capacity that could put us at a competitive disadvantage. In the event that a government-owned or sponsored entity in one of our markets decides to reduce prices significantly or alter the terms and conditions of its mortgage insurance or other credit enhancement products in furtherance of political, social or other goals rather than a profit motive, we may be unable to compete in that market effectively, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Beginning in 2008, the FHA has substantially increased its market share, including by insuring a number of loans that would meet our current underwriting guidelines at a lower cost to the borrower than a loan that carries our mortgage insurance. The FHA’s share of the mortgage insurance market increased significantly to 81.0% for 2009 from 53.6% for 2008. For information regarding certain legislative developments that have enhanced the FHA’s competitive position, see “Legislation and regulatory changes and interpretations could harm our mortgage insurance business” below. In light of the capital constraints currently facing most, if not all, private mortgage insurers and the need by private mortgage insurers to tighten underwriting guidelines based on past loan performance, we anticipate that the FHA will continue to maintain a strong market position and could increase its market position to the point that private mortgage insurers may be perceived as less significant to the future of the housing finance market. One or more private mortgage insurers may seek to regain market share from the FHA or other mortgage insurers by reducing pricing (as was recently publicly announced by one private mortgage insurer) or loosening their underwriting guidelines, which could increase their competitive position in the industry and reduce the amount of business available to us. It appears that the improvement in the credit quality of new loans being insured in the current market, combined with the deterioration of the financial strength ratings of most existing private mortgage insurance companies, in part due to their legacy books of insured mortgages, could encourage new entrants to our industry. One potential new entrant, who appears to have significant capital commitments, has publicly disclosed that it has received a license to write mortgage insurance business in 45 states and has received GSE approval. Our inability to compete with other providers, including any new entrants that are not burdened by legacy credit risks, could have a material adverse effect on our business position, financial condition and operating results. In addition, in the past, an increasing number of alternatives to traditional private mortgage insurance developed, many of which reduced the demand for our mortgage insurance. These alternatives included: • mortgage lenders structuring mortgage originations to avoid private mortgage insurance, mostly through “80-10-10 loans” or other forms of simultaneous second loans. The use of simultaneous second loans increased significantly during the recent past to become a competitive alternative to private mortgage insurance, particularly in light of (i) the potential lower monthly cost of simultaneous second loans compared to the cost of mortgage insurance in a low interest-rate environment and (ii) possible negative borrower, broker and realtor perceptions about mortgage insurance; • investors using other forms of credit enhancement such as CDS or securitizations as a partial or complete substitute for private mortgage insurance; and 78 Table of Contents • mortgage lenders and other intermediaries foregoing third-party insurance coverage and retaining the full risk of loss on their high-LTV loans. As a result of the recent and continuing turmoil in the housing credit market, many of these alternatives to private mortgage insurance are not currently available in the mortgage market, although simultaneous second loans are still available and their use may grow again. If market conditions were to change, however, we again could face significant competition from these alternatives as well as others that may develop. Our business depends, in part, on effective and reliable loan servicing, which may be negatively impacted by the current disruption in the housing and mortgage credit markets. We depend on reliable, consistent third-party servicing of the loans that we insure. Dependable servicing generally ensures timely billing and effective loss mitigation opportunities for delinquent or near-delinquent loans. Many of our customers also serve as the servicers for loans that we insure, whether the loans were originated by such customer or another lender. Therefore, the same market conditions affecting our customers as discussed above in “Because our mortgage insurance business is concentrated among a few significant customers, our new insurance written and franchise value could decline if we lose any significant customer” will also affect their ability to effectively maintain their servicing operations. In addition, current housing trends have led to a significant increase in the number of delinquent mortgage loans requiring servicing. These increases have strained the resources of servicers, reducing their ability to undertake loss mitigation efforts, including the processing of potential loan modifications through the U.S. Treasury Department’s HAMP program, that could help limit our losses. Managing a substantially higher volume of under-performing loans could create operational difficulties that our servicers may not have the resources to overcome. If a disruption occurs in the servicing of mortgage loans covered by our insurance policies, this, in turn, could contribute to a rise in delinquencies and/or claims among those loans and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Loan modification and other similar programs may not provide us with a material benefit. The FDIC, the GSEs and lenders have adopted programs to modify loans to make them more affordable to borrowers with the goal of reducing the number of foreclosures. In February 2009, the U.S. Treasury Department announced the Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan, which provides certain guidelines for loan modifications and allocates $75 billion for this purpose. Some of the eligibility criteria require current information about borrowers, such as the borrowers’ current income and non-mortgage debt payment. Because the GSEs and the lenders do not share such information with us, we cannot determine, with certainty, the number of loans in our delinquent inventory that are eligible to participate in such programs; therefore, our estimates of the number of qualifying loans are inherently uncertain. While modifications made under these programs are increasing, it is unclear whether they will ultimately result in a significant number of loan modifications. In addition, the eligibility guidelines may be changed, which may make it more difficult for some loans to be eligible for modification. As of December 1, 2009, the GSEs changed how the net present value test is used for determining whether loan modifications may be offered under HAMP. These changes made it more difficult for some loans to be modified under HAMP. While we lack sufficient data to determine the impact of these changes, we believe that they may decrease the number of our loans that will participate in HAMP. In January 2010, the U.S. Treasury Department has further modified the HAMP eligibility requirements. For a discussion of these modifications, see “Business—Regulation—Federal Regulation— Indirect Regulation.” Even if a loan is modified, we do not know how many modified loans will subsequently re-default or whether they may eventually result in losses that would be greater than we would have suffered if the loan had 79 Table of Contents not been modified. In February 2010, the Obama administration announced $1.5 billion of funding under the EESA to states where the average price for homes fell by more than 20% from its peak price. It is expected that these funds will be made available to eligible states and local housing finance agencies to assist borrowers, including unemployed borrowers, borrowers that owe more than the current value of their house, and borrowers with home equity loans or second-liens. Additional guidelines for funding and other eligibility requirements are expected to be provided by the U.S. Treasury Department in the near future. We cannot ascertain with confidence whether these programs will provide material benefits to us. The U.S. Treasury Department also is supporting judicial modifications for home mortgages during bankruptcy proceedings. If legislation is enacted to permit a mortgage balance to be reduced in bankruptcy, we would still be responsible under our master insurance policy to pay the original balance if the borrower re-defaulted on that mortgage after its balance has been reduced. Various government entities and private parties have adopted foreclosure moratoriums. A moratorium does not affect the accrual of interest and other expenses on a loan. Unless a loan is modified during a moratorium to cure the default, at the expiration of the moratorium, additional interest and expenses would be due (subject to the limitation in our master policy with respect to interest), which could result in our losses on loans subject to the moratorium being higher than if there had been no moratorium. There is no guarantee that these loan modification programs will be fully implemented or, if in effect, that they will continue to be available. Any termination or temporary cessation of any of these programs could result in an increased number of claims in our mortgage insurance business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Mortgage refinancings in the current housing market may increase the risk profile of our existing mortgage insurance portfolio. Mortgage interest rates currently are at historically low levels that have led many borrowers to seek to refinance their existing mortgages. However, because most lenders are currently utilizing more restrictive underwriting guidelines, only those borrowers with strong credit profiles are generally able to qualify for the new loans required to refinance. Consequently, only highly qualified borrowers are generally able to refinance in the current market. As more of these borrowers refinance (and their existing mortgage insurance with us is canceled), the total percentage of our risk in force related to high-risk borrowers could possibly increase, which could increase the risk profile of our existing mortgage insurance portfolio and potentially reduce the future profitability of our mortgage insurance business. Our success depends on our ability to assess and manage our underwriting risks; the premiums we charge may not be adequate to compensate us for our liability for losses. Our mortgage insurance and financial guaranty premium rates may not be adequate to cover future losses. Our mortgage insurance premiums are based on our long-term expected risk of claims on insured loans, and take into account, among other factors, each loan’s LTV, type (e.g., prime vs. non-prime or fixed vs. variable payments), term, coverage percentage or the existence of a deductible in front of our loss position. Our financial guaranty premiums are based on our expected risk of claim on the insured obligation, and take into account, among other factors, the rating and creditworthiness of the issuer and of the insured obligations, the type of insured obligation, the policy term and the structure of the transaction being insured. In addition, our premium rates take into account expected cancellation rates, operating expenses and reinsurance costs, as well as profit and capital needs and the prices that we expect our competitors to offer. Our estimates and expectations are based on assumptions that may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. In particular, the predictive value of historical data may be less reliable during periods of greater economic stress and, accordingly, our ability to correctly estimate our premium requirements may be impaired during the current economic uncertainty. We generally cannot cancel or elect not to renew the mortgage insurance or financial guaranty insurance coverage we provide, and because we generally fix premium rates for the life of a policy when issued, we cannot adjust renewal premiums or otherwise adjust premiums over the life of a policy. Therefore, even if the risk 80 Table of Contents underlying many of the mortgage or financial guaranty products we have insured develops more adversely than we anticipated, including as a result of the on-going economic recession and housing market downturn, which has led to a significant increase in defaults and claims, and the premiums our customers are currently paying for similar coverage on new business from us and others has increased, we generally cannot increase the premium rates on this in-force business, or cancel coverage or elect not to renew coverage, to mitigate the effects of such adverse developments. Our premiums earned and the associated investment income on those premiums may ultimately prove to be inadequate to compensate for the losses that we may incur. An increase in the amount or frequency of claims beyond the levels contemplated by our pricing assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our delegated underwriting program may subject our mortgage insurance business to unanticipated claims. In our mortgage insurance business, we enter into agreements with our mortgage lender customers that commit us to insure loans using pre-established underwriting guidelines. Once we accept a lender into our delegated underwriting program, we generally insure a loan originated by that lender even if the lender does not follow our specified underwriting guidelines. Under this program, a lender could commit us to insure a material number of loans with unacceptable risk profiles before we discover the problem and terminate that lender’s delegated underwriting authority as well as pursuing other rights that may be available to us, such as our rights to rescind coverage or deny claims. The performance of loans insured through programs of delegated underwriting has not been tested over a period of extended adverse economic conditions, and the program could lead to greater losses than we anticipate in light of the current economic downturn. Greater than anticipated losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We face risks associated with our contract underwriting business. We provide contract underwriting services for certain of our mortgage lender customers, including on loans for which we are not providing mortgage insurance. Under the terms of our contract underwriting agreements, we agree that if we make material errors that lead to a default in connection with these services, the mortgage lender may, subject to certain conditions, require us to purchase the loans, issue mortgage insurance on the loans, or indemnify the lender against future loss associated with the loans. Accordingly, we assume some credit risk and interest-rate risk in connection with providing these services. In 2009, we underwrote $7.8 billion in principal amount of loans for customers through contract underwriting. Depending on market conditions, a significant amount of our underwriting services may be performed by independent contractors hired by us on a temporary basis. If these independent contractors make more material errors than we anticipate, the resulting need to provide greater than anticipated recourse to mortgage lenders could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. A downgrade or potential downgrade of our credit ratings or the insurance financial strength ratings assigned to any of our mortgage insurance or financial guaranty subsidiaries is possible and could weaken our competitive position and affect our financial condition. The credit ratings of Radian Group and the insurance financial strength ratings assigned to our insurance subsidiaries were downgraded multiple times since 2008 and may be subject to further downgrade. In December 2009, S&P downgraded the financial strength ratings of our financial guaranty insurance subsidiaries to BB- and also downgraded Radian Group’s other subsidiaries, including Radian Guaranty and Amerin Guaranty to B+. At our request, S&P also withdrew the financial strength ratings of RAAL. On February 4, 2010, Moody’s affirmed the ratings of our mortgage insurance subsidiaries but changed their outlook to negative. In response to current market conditions, the rating agencies are engaged in ongoing monitoring of the mortgage insurance and financial guaranty industries and could take action, including by downgrading or warning of the strong possibility of downgrade, with respect to one or more companies in a specific industry. Although we remain in frequent contact with the rating agencies and have prepared action plans to address rating agency actions, we are generally not provided with much advance notice of an impending rating decision, which could come at any time. 81 Table of Contents Historically, our ratings have been critical to our ability to market our products and to maintain our competitive position and customer confidence in our products. A downgrade in these ratings or the announcement of the potential of a downgrade, or any other concern relating to the on-going financial strength of our insurance subsidiaries, could make it difficult or impossible for them to continue to write new profitable business or create a competitive advantage for other industry participants that maintain higher ratings than us. Further, although we believe the GSEs currently are not as concerned with ratings as they have been in past periods, any additional downgrade of the insurance financial strength ratings for our mortgage insurance business could negatively impact our eligibility status with the GSEs. See “We could lose our eligibility status with the GSEs, causing Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae to decide not to purchase mortgages insured by us, which would significantly impair our mortgage insurance franchise.” A downgrade may make it more difficult for us to successfully raise capital, including by imposing terms not acceptable to us or by limiting us to raising an amount that would not be sufficient to restore or stabilize our ratings. Because we do not establish reserves in our mortgage insurance business until a borrower has failed to make two payments rather than based on estimates of our ultimate losses on non-defaulted loans, our financial statements may not reflect our expected obligation for losses on our entire portfolio of insured mortgages. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), we generally do not establish reserves in our mortgage insurance business until we are notified that a borrower has failed to make at least two consecutive payments when due. We maintain an extensive database of claim payment history and use models, based on a variety of loan characteristics, including the status of the loan as reported by its servicer and the type of loan product to determine the likelihood that a default will reach claim status. Because our mortgage insurance reserving does not account for the impact of future losses that we expect to incur with respect to non-defaulted loans, our obligation for ultimate losses that we expect to incur at any period end is not reflected in our financial statements, except to the extent that a premium deficiency exists. As a result, future losses may have a material impact on future results as delinquencies occur. If the estimates we use in establishing loss reserves for our mortgage insurance or financial guaranty businesses are incorrect, we may be required to take unexpected charges to income which could hurt our capital position. We establish loss reserves in both our mortgage insurance and financial guaranty businesses to provide for the estimated cost of future claims. Because our reserves represent our best estimate of claims, these reserves may be insufficient to satisfy the full amount of claims that we ultimately have to pay. Setting our loss reserves requires significant judgment by management with respect to the likelihood, magnitude and timing of anticipated losses. The models and estimates we use to establish loss reserves may prove to be inaccurate, especially during an extended economic downturn or a period of extreme credit market volatility, as currently exists. If our estimates are inadequate, we may be required to increase our reserves, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, capital position and operating results, as well as our ability to continue to write new business. In addition to establishing mortgage insurance loss reserves in accordance with the immediately preceding risk factor, we are required under GAAP to establish a premium deficiency reserve for our mortgage insurance products if the amount by which the net present value of expected future losses for a particular product and the expenses for such product exceeds the net present value of expected future premiums and existing reserves for such product. We evaluate whether a premium deficiency exists at the end of each fiscal quarter. As of December 31, 2009, a premium deficiency reserve of $25.4 million existed for our second-lien mortgage insurance business. Because our evaluation of premium deficiency is based on our best estimate of future losses, expenses and premiums, the evaluation is inherently uncertain and may prove to be inaccurate. Although no premium deficiency existed on our first-lien mortgage insurance business at December 31, 2009, there can be no assurance that additional premium deficiency reserves will not be required for this product or our other mortgage insurance products in future periods. 82 Table of Contents It also is difficult to estimate appropriate loss reserves for our financial guaranty business because of the nature of potential losses in that business, which are largely influenced by the particular circumstances surrounding each troubled credit, including the availability of loss mitigation, and therefore, are less capable of being evaluated based on historical assumptions or precedent. In addition, in our financial guaranty reinsurance business, we rely in part on information provided by the ceding company in order to establish reserves. If this information is incomplete or untimely, our loss reserves may be inaccurate and could require material adjustment in future periods as new or corrected information becomes available. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to manage risks in our investment portfolio. Income from our investment portfolio is one of our primary sources of cash flow to support our operations and claim payments. If we underestimate our policy liabilities, or if we improperly structure our investments to meet those liabilities, we could have unexpected losses, including losses resulting from forced liquidation of investments before their maturity. Our investments and investment policies and those of our subsidiaries are subject to state insurance laws. We may be forced to change our investments or investment policies depending upon regulatory, economic and market conditions and the existing or anticipated financial condition and operating requirements, including the tax position, of our business segments. Our investment objectives may not be achieved. Although our portfolio consists mostly of highly-rated investments and complies with applicable regulatory requirements, the success of our investment activity is affected by general economic conditions, which may adversely affect the markets for credit and interest-rate-sensitive securities, including the extent and timing of investor participation in these markets, the level and volatility of interest rates and, consequently, the value of our fixed-income securities. Volatility or illiquidity in the markets in which we directly or indirectly hold positions has reduced the market value of some of our investments and has caused certain other-than-temporary impairments within our portfolio, which, if this worsens substantially, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and operating results. As a holding company, Radian Group relies on its operating subsidiaries to fund its dividend payments and to meet its obligations and has intercompany payment obligations under its tax sharing agreement. Radian Group acts principally as a holding company for our insurance subsidiaries and does not have any significant operations of its own. Radian Group’s most significant liquidity demands for the foreseeable future include funds for (i) the payment of certain corporate expenses (which are fully reimbursed through expense-sharing arrangements with our subsidiaries), (ii) interest payments on our outstanding long-term debt (which are fully reimbursed through expense-sharing arrangements with our subsidiaries), (iii) repayment of the principal amount of our outstanding long-term debt, including the principal amount of our debentures due in June 2011, of which $160.4 million is outstanding as of February 28, 2010, as well as $250 million in principal amount of senior notes due in each of 2013 and 2015, (iv) payments to our insurance subsidiaries under our tax-sharing agreement, including our current estimate of $82 million to be paid to Radian Guaranty in October 2010, of which $29 million has been paid in February 2010, which amount may increase or decrease if actual tax losses in 2009 are worse or better than projected and a maximum of $77 million, which may be required to be paid to Radian Guaranty in October 2011, (v) potential capital support for our insurance subsidiaries, and (vi) the payment of dividends on our common stock. Radian Group had immediately available directly or through an unregulated direct subsidiary, unrestricted cash and marketable securities of approximately $360 million at December 31, 2009. Dividends from our insurance subsidiaries and permitted payments to Radian Group under tax- and expense-sharing arrangements with our subsidiaries are Radian Group’s principal sources of cash. Our insurance subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends to Radian Group is subject to various conditions imposed by the GSEs and rating agencies, and by insurance regulations requiring insurance department approval. In general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits are deemed “extraordinary” and require insurance regulatory approval. In light of on-going losses in our mortgage insurance subsidiaries, we do not anticipate that these subsidiaries will be permitted under applicable insurance laws to issue dividends to Radian Group for the foreseeable future. To the 83 Table of Contents extent Radian Asset Assurance and Sherman issue dividends, these dividends will be issued to Radian Guaranty, their direct parent company, and not to Radian Group. The expense-sharing arrangements between Radian Group and our insurance subsidiaries, as amended, have been approved by applicable state insurance departments, but such approval may be changed at any time. If the cash Radian Group receives from our subsidiaries pursuant to dividend payments and expense- and tax-sharing arrangements and other sources of liquidity is insufficient for Radian Group to fund its obligations, we may be required to seek additional capital by incurring additional debt, by issuing additional equity or by selling assets, which we may be unable to do on favorable terms, if at all. The need to raise additional capital or the failure to make timely payments on our obligations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. In addition, Radian Group may be required to make additional payments to its subsidiaries under its tax-sharing agreement as follows: • In November 2009, new tax legislation was enacted that permits a company to extend the existing carryback period from two years to up to five years for net operating losses (“NOLs”) incurred in 2008 or 2009. Taxpayers are only entitled to extend the carryback period for either the 2008 or 2009 tax year, but not both years. While an analysis of the overall impact has not been completed, we do not believe that this legislation will have a material impact on Radian Group’s consolidated federal income tax; however, if we make an election to extend our carryback provision, Radian Group may be required to make payments to its subsidiaries under the tax-sharing agreement. • Certain of our mortgage insurance subsidiaries, other than Radian Guaranty, may not be able to utilize estimated NOLs since they may not generate sufficient taxable income on a separate company basis. If those subsidiaries were to generate taxable income, then Radian Group may be required to make payments to them to the extent such NOL had been utilized on a consolidated basis. Each of these subsidiaries has incurred significant losses in the recent past and we do not expect them to generate any significant taxable income, if any, in the future. For additional information regarding our liquidity demands and sources of liquidity, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our reported earnings are subject to fluctuations based on changes in our credit derivatives that require us to adjust their fair market value as reflected on our income statement. We provide credit enhancement in the form of derivative contracts. The gains and losses on these derivative contracts are derived from internally generated models, which may differ from models used by our counterparties or others in the industry. We estimate fair value amounts using market information, to the extent available, and valuation methodologies that we deem appropriate in order to estimate the fair value amounts that would be exchanged to sell an asset or transfer a liability. Considerable judgment is required to interpret available market data to develop the estimates of fair value. Since there currently is no active market for many derivative products, we have had to use assumptions as to what could be realized in a current market exchange. In the event that our investments or derivative contracts were sold or transferred in a forced liquidation, the fair values received or paid could be materially different than those reflected in our financial statements. See Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies—Derivative Instruments and VIE Liabilities” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Temporary market or credit spread changes as well as actual credit improvement or deterioration in our derivative contracts are reflected in changes in fair value of derivative instruments. Because the adjustments referenced above are reflected on our statements of operations, they affect our reported earnings and create earnings volatility. Additionally, beginning in 2008, in accordance with the accounting pronouncement regarding fair value measurements, we made an adjustment to our derivatives valuation methodology to account for our 84 Table of Contents own non-performance risk by incorporating our observable CDS spread into the determination of fair value of our credit derivatives. Our five-year CDS spread has increased significantly since January 2007, and was 1,530 basis points as of December 31, 2009. This market perception of our high risk of non-performance has had the effect of reducing our derivative liability valuations by approximately $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2009. If our CDS spread were to tighten significantly, and other credit spreads utilized in our fair value methodologies remained constant, our earnings could be significantly reduced. The performance of our strategic investments could harm our financial results. Part of our business involves strategic investments in other companies, and we generally do not have control over the way that these companies run their day-to-day operations. Our 28.7% equity interest in Sherman, through Radian Guaranty, currently represents our most significant strategic investment. Sherman is a consumer asset and servicing firm specializing in charged-off and bankruptcy plan consumer assets, which are generally unsecured, that Sherman typically purchases at deep discounts from national financial institutions and major retail corporations and upon which it subsequently seeks to collect. In addition, Sherman originates subprime credit card receivables through its subsidiary CreditOne and has certain other similar ventures related to consumer assets. Consequently, Sherman’s results could be adversely impacted by: • Sherman’s ability to obtain or renew financing, a portion of which is renewable annually, and its ability to accomplish this on reasonable terms; • mispricing of the pools of consumer assets it purchases or the availability of pools for purchase on acceptable terms; • macroeconomic or other factors that could diminish the success of its collection efforts on the variety of consumer assets it owns, including new legislation and regulation (or changes to existing legislation or regulation), such as the Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009, that can impact Sherman’s ability to collect and the amount of fees it can charge; and • the results of its credit card origination business, which are sensitive to interest-rate changes, charge-off losses and the success of its collection efforts, and which may be impacted by macroeconomic factors that affect a borrower’s ability to pay. As a result of their significant collection efforts, there is a risk that Sherman could be subject to consumer related lawsuits and other investigations related to fair debt collection practices, which could have an adverse effect on Sherman’s income, reputation and future ability to conduct business. In addition, Sherman is particularly exposed to consumer credit risk as a result of its credit card origination business and unsecured lending business through CreditOne. National credit card lenders have reported decreased spending by card members and an increase in delinquencies and loan write-offs as a result of the on-going turmoil in the consumer credit markets. A continuation of current economic trends could materially impact the future results of Sherman, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our international operations subject us to risks. We are subject to a number of risks associated with our legacy international mortgage insurance and financial guaranty business activities, including: • dependence on regulatory and third-party approvals; • foreign governments’ monetary policies and regulatory requirements; • economic downturns in targeted foreign mortgage origination markets; • interest-rate volatility in a variety of countries; • political risk and risks of war, terrorism, civil disturbances or other events that may limit or disrupt markets; 85 Table of Contents • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign regulations and laws, some of which are materially different than the regulatory and statutory requirements we face in our domestic business, and which may change unexpectedly; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; and • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Given our current strategic focus on U.S. mortgage insurance, we have ceased writing new international business and have significantly reduced our existing international exposures. In certain cases, our ability to reduce our exposure depends on our counterparty’s ability to find alternative insurance, which opportunities are limited in the current global economic downturn. Accordingly, we may not be able to recover the capital we invested in our international operations for many years and may not recover all of such capital if losses are worse than expected. Further, any one or more of the risks listed above could limit or prohibit us from effectively running off our international operations. We currently hold a 45% interest in the holding company of a Brazilian insurance company, which specializes in surety and agricultural insurance. This company and its subsidiaries are subject to regulation by The Superintendence of Private Insurance, the regulatory agency responsible for the supervision and control of the insurance market in Brazil. Although we wrote off our entire interest in this company in 2005, under Brazilian law, as a significant shareholder, it is possible that we could become liable for our proportionate share of the liabilities of the company (our share represents approximately $86 million as of December 31, 2009), if the company was to become insolvent and had insufficient capital to satisfy its outstanding liabilities. The company is currently in compliance with Brazilian minimum capital requirements although its ability to write new business may be limited. We may lose business if we are unable to meet our customers’ technological demands. Participants in the mortgage insurance industry rely on e-commerce and other technologies to provide and expand their products and services. Our customers generally require that we provide aspects of our products and services electronically, and the percentage of our new insurance written and claims processing that we deliver electronically has continued to increase. We expect this trend to continue and, accordingly, we may be unable to satisfy our customers’ requirements if we fail to invest sufficient resources or otherwise are unable to maintain and upgrade our technological capabilities. This may result in a decrease in the business we receive, which could impact our profitability. Our information technology systems may not be configured to process information regarding new and emerging products. Many of our information technology systems, which have been in place for a number of years, originally were designed to process information regarding traditional products. As new products with new features emerge or when we modify our underwriting standards as we have done recently, our systems may require modification in order to recognize these features to allow us to price or bill for our insurance of these products appropriately. Our systems also may not be capable of recording, or may incorrectly record, information about these products that may be important to our risk management and other functions. In addition, our customers may encounter similar technological issues that prevent them from sending us complete information about the products or transactions that we insure. Making appropriate modifications to our systems involves inherent time lags and may require us to incur significant expenses. The inability to make necessary modifications to our systems in a timely and cost-effective manner may have adverse effects on our business, financial condition and operating results. 86 Table of Contents We could be adversely affected if personal information that we maintain on consumers is improperly disclosed. As part of our business, we and certain of our subsidiaries and affiliates maintain large amounts of personal information on consumers. While we believe we have appropriate information security policies and systems to prevent unauthorized disclosure, there can be no assurance that unauthorized disclosure, either through the actions of third parties or our employees, will not occur. Unauthorized disclosure could adversely affect our reputation and expose us to material claims for damages. We are subject to the risk of private litigation and regulatory proceedings. We face litigation risk in the ordinary course of operations, including the risk of class action lawsuits such as those that we are currently facing, including (i) the stockholder class action lawsuits filed in August and September 2007 (Cortese v. Radian Group Inc. and Maslar v. Radian Group Inc., which were consolidated into In re Radian Securities Litigation) against Radian Group and individual defendants in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania alleging that we were aware of and failed to disclose the actual financial condition of C-BASS prior to our declaration of a material impairment to our investment in C-BASS, and (ii) a purported class action lawsuit filed in April 2008 against Radian Group, the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of our board of directors and individual defendants in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, alleging violations of the Employee Retirement Income Securities Act as it relates to our Savings Incentive Plan. For additional information regarding these class action lawsuits, see Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot predict whether other actions may be brought against us in the future. Any such proceedings could have an adverse affect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. On October 3, 2007, we received a letter from the staff of the Chicago Regional Office of the SEC stating that the staff is conducting an investigation involving Radian Group and requesting production of certain documents. The staff has also requested that certain of our current and former employees and directors provide voluntary testimony in this matter. We believe that the investigation generally relates to the previously proposed merger with MGIC and Radian Group’s investment in C-BASS. We are cooperating with the requests of the SEC. The SEC staff has informed us that this investigation should not be construed as an indication by the Commission or its staff that any violation of the securities laws has occurred, or as a reflection upon any person, entity or security. From time to time we have disputes with our customers. If not resolved, these disputes could lead to arbitration or litigation proceedings. Our recent experience with respect to increased insurance rescissions and claim denials has heightened the risk of disputes with our customers, which could potentially lead to the loss of one or more customers or to litigation. In addition, there has been increased litigation in our industry relating to rescissions and claim denials. Although we are not a party to any such litigation, we cannot predict whether such actions may be brought against us. If we engage in material litigation with any customer, the customer could decide to limit the amount of business they conduct with us or terminate our business relationship altogether, which could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. Our senior management and board of directors have been required to devote significant time to these and related matters and will likely be required to devote substantial additional time to these matters in the future. There can be no assurance that these lawsuits, regulatory investigations and other legal matters will not have a disruptive effect upon the operations of the business. In addition, we have incurred (and are likely to continue to incur), substantial expenses in connection with such matters, including substantial fees for attorneys and other professional advisors. We are unable at this time to predict the outcome of these actions or reasonably estimate a range of damages in the event plaintiffs in these or other additional litigation prevail under one or more of their claims. In addition, we are cooperating with the SEC regarding the above investigation but we cannot predict the outcome of any such investigation or other regulatory proceedings. Depending on the outcome of any such investigation or other regulatory proceeding, we may be required to pay material fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct or 87 Table of Contents suffer other penalties, remedies or sanctions. The ultimate resolution of these matters could have a material adverse impact on our financial results, financial condition, and liquidity, and on the trading price of our common stock. There can be no assurance that additional lawsuits, regulatory and other matters will not arise. See also “Legislation and regulatory changes and interpretations could harm our mortgage insurance business,” “Legislation and regulatory changes and interpretations could harm our financial guaranty business” and “The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) is examining our tax returns for the years 2000 through 2007.” The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) is examining our tax returns for the years 2000 through 2007. We are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for the 2000 through 2007 tax years. The IRS opposes the recognition of certain tax losses and deductions that were generated through our investment in a portfolio of residual interests in Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduits (“REMICs”) and has proposed adjustments denying the associated tax benefits of these items. In May 2008, the IRS proposed adjustments relating to the 2000 through 2004 tax years, which would increase our tax liability by approximately $121 million for this period. We have appealed these proposed adjustments with the IRS Office of Appeals and have made a “qualified deposit” with the U.S. Department of the Treasury of approximately $85 million to avoid the accrual of the associated above-market-rate interest. In February 2010, the IRS proposed adjustments relating to the 2005 through 2007 tax years, which would increase our tax liability by approximately $6 million. We plan to appeal such proposed adjustments and we may make a “qualified deposit” as described above. Although we disagree with and are contesting with respect to the 2000 through 2004 tax years, and plan to contest with respect to the 2005 through 2007 tax years, the adjustments proposed by the IRS, and believe that our income and loss from these investments were properly reported on our federal income tax returns in accordance with applicable tax laws and regulations in effect during the applicable periods, there can be no assurance that we will prevail in opposing the additional tax liability, interest or penalties with respect to this investment. The overall appeals process may take some time, and a final resolution may not be reached until a date many months or years into the future. Additionally, although we believe, after discussions with outside counsel about the issues raised in the examination and the procedures for resolution of the disputed adjustments, that an adequate provision for income taxes has been made for potential liabilities that may result, if the outcome of this matter results in liability that differs materially from our expectations, it could have a material impact on our effective tax rate, results of operations and cash flows. We have concluded that a valuation allowance is required with regard to our $440.9 million net deferred tax asset (“DTA”) and an additional valuation allowance could become necessary. As of December 31, 2009, we have a net deferred tax asset (“DTA”) in the amount of $440.9 million. We are required to establish a valuation allowance against our DTA when it is more likely than not that all or some portion of our DTA will not be realized. At each balance sheet date, we assess our need for a valuation allowance and this assessment is based on all available evidence, both positive and negative, and requires management to exercise judgment and make assumptions regarding whether such DTA will be realized in future periods. Future realization of our DTA will ultimately depend on the existence of sufficient taxable income of the appropriate character (ordinary income or capital gains) within the applicable carryforward period provided under the tax law. Among the more significant positive evidence that we considered in determining the amount of valuation allowance needed is our tax planning strategy, which was partially implemented during 2009, of converting the investment portfolio from tax exempt securities to securities that provide fully taxable interest. A valuation allowance of approximately $6.9 million was recorded against our $440.9 million DTA related to certain state NOLs. These state NOLs were generated by our operating subsidiaries and, due to limitations imposed upon the utilization of such NOLs by the various tax jurisdictions, we cannot be certain that these NOLs will be fully utilized during the applicable carryforward periods. If, in the future, our assumptions and estimates that resulted in our forecast of future taxable income prove to be incorrect, an additional valuation allowance could become necessary. Recognition of an additional valuation allowance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. 88 Table of Contents Our ability to recognize tax benefits on future domestic U.S. tax losses and our existing U.S. net operating loss position may be limited. We have generated substantial NOLs, loss carryforwards and other tax attributes for U.S. tax purposes that can be used to reduce our future federal income tax obligations. Our ability to fully use these tax assets (including NOLs of $1,267 million as of December 31, 2009) will be adversely affected if we have an “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”) of 1986, as amended. An ownership change is generally defined as a greater than 50 percentage point increase in equity ownership by “five-percent shareholders” (as that term is defined for purposes of Section 382 of the IRC) in any three-year period. We may experience an “ownership change” in the future as a result of changes in our stock ownership. On October 8, 2009, our board of directors adopted a Tax Benefit Preservation Plan, and as amended on February 12, 2010 (the “Plan”) in order to protect our ability to utilize our NOLs and other tax assets from an “ownership change” under U.S. federal income tax rules. However, there is no guarantee that the Plan will be effective in protecting our NOLs and other tax assets. Determining whether an “ownership change” has occurred is subject to uncertainty, both because of the complexity and ambiguity of Section 382 of the IRC and because of limitations on a publicly traded company’s knowledge as to the ownership of, and transactions in, its securities. Therefore, we cannot assure you that the IRS or other taxing authority will not claim that we experienced an “ownership change” before we adopted the Plan and attempt to reduce the benefit of our tax assets. Furthermore, while the Plan is intended to deter acquisitions that may adversely affect our tax position, such acquisitions may still occur. In addition, the Plan may make it more difficult and more expensive to acquire us, and may discourage open market purchases of our common stock or a non-negotiated tender or exchange offer for our common stock. Accordingly, the Plan may limit a stockholder’s ability to realize a premium over the market price of our common stock in connection with any stock transaction. Legislation and regulatory changes and interpretations could harm our mortgage insurance business. Our business and legal liabilities are affected by the application of federal or state consumer lending and insurance laws and regulations, or by unfavorable changes in these laws and regulations. For example, HERA includes reforms to the FHA, and provides the FHA with greater flexibility in establishing new products and increases the FHA’s competitive position against private mortgage insurers. This law increased the maximum loan amount that the FHA can insure and established a higher minimum cash down-payment. HERA also contained provisions, called the Hope for Homeownership program, by which the FHA is authorized to refinance distressed mortgages in return for lenders and investors agreeing to write down the amount of the original mortgage. The EESA and the U.S. Treasury Department’s Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan include provisions that encourage further use of the Hope for Homeowners program and further strengthen support for FHA programs by easing restrictions in these programs. We cannot predict with any certainty the long-term impact of these changes upon demand for our products. However, beginning in 2008, the FHA has materially increased its market share, in part by insuring a number of loans that would meet our current underwriting guidelines, as a result of these recent legislative and regulatory changes. See “Our mortgage insurance business faces intense competition” above. Any further increase in the competition we face from the FHA or any other government sponsored entities could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We and other mortgage insurers have faced private lawsuits alleging, among other things, that our captive reinsurance arrangements constitute unlawful payments to mortgage lenders under the anti-referral fee provisions of RESPA and that we have failed to comply with the notice provisions of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (“FCRA”). In addition, class action lawsuits have been brought against a number of large lenders alleging that their captive reinsurance arrangements violated RESPA. While we are not currently a defendant in any case 89 Table of Contents related to RESPA or FCRA, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to any future litigation under RESPA or FCRA or that the outcome of such litigation will not have a material adverse affect on us. We and other mortgage insurers have been subject to inquiries from the NYID and the Minnesota Department of Commerce relating to our captive reinsurance and contract underwriting arrangements, and we have also received a subpoena from the Office of the Inspector General of HUD, requesting information relating to captive reinsurance. We cannot predict whether these inquiries will lead to further inquiries, or further investigations of these arrangements, or the scope, timing or outcome of the present inquiries or any other inquiry or action by these or other regulators. Although we believe that all of our captive reinsurance and contract underwriting arrangements comply with applicable legal requirements, we cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully defend against any alleged violations of RESPA or other laws. Proposed changes to the application of RESPA could harm our competitive position. HUD proposed an exemption under RESPA for lenders that, at the time a borrower submits a loan application, give the borrower a firm, guaranteed price for all the settlement services associated with the loan, commonly referred to as “bundling.” In 2004, HUD indicated its intention to abandon the proposed rule and to submit a revised proposed rule to the U.S. Congress. HUD began looking at the reform process again in 2005 and a new rule was proposed in 2008. We do not know what form, if any, this rule will take or whether it will be promulgated. In addition, HUD has also declared its intention to seek legislative changes to RESPA. We cannot predict which changes will be implemented and whether the premiums we are able to charge for mortgage insurance will be negatively affected. Legislation and regulatory changes and interpretations could harm our financial guaranty business. The laws and regulations affecting the municipal, asset-backed and trade credit debt markets, as well as other governmental regulations, may be changed in ways that could adversely affect our financial guaranty business. Our regulators are reviewing the laws, rules and regulations applicable to financial guarantors in light of the current market disruptions. These reviews could result in additional limitations on our ability to conduct our financial guaranty business, including additional restrictions and limitations on our ability to declare dividends or more stringent statutory capital requirements for all or certain segments of our financial guaranty businesses. Any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The implementation of the Basel II capital accord may discourage the use of mortgage insurance. In 1988, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision developed the Basel Capital Accord (the “Basel I”), which set out international benchmarks for assessing banks’ capital adequacy requirements. In June 2005, the Basel Committee issued an update to Basel I (as revised in November 2005, “Basel II”). Basel II was implemented by many banks in the U.S. and many other countries in 2009 and may be implemented by the remaining banks in the U.S. and many other countries in 2010. Basel II affects the capital treatment provided to mortgage insurance by domestic and international banks in both their origination and securitization activities. The Basel II provisions related to residential mortgages and mortgage insurance may provide incentives to certain of our bank customers not to insure mortgages having a lower risk of claim and to insure mortgages having a higher risk of claim. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 90 Table of Contents 