Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are certain risk factors that could affect Zoltek’s business, financial results and results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. Before you buy the Company’s securities, you should know that making such an investment involves a high degree of risk, including the risks described below. The risks that we have highlighted here are not the only ones that the Company faces. If any of the risks actually occur, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of its securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our growth and profitability will depend on increases in demand for carbon fibers and entering into new supply relationships. Historically, our business has been adversely affected during periods of oversupply and capacity constraints. For years prior to fiscal 2004, our financial results were adversely affected by industry oversupply conditions which inhibited adoption of carbon fibers for non-aerospace applications as existing and potential customers were reluctant to commit to incorporate carbon fiber composites into their products due to concerns about the availability of carbon fiber in large volumes at predictable pricing. During 2006 and 2007, the divergence in the aerospace and commercial applications and our new contracts with wind energy customers led to strains on our ability to meet all the demand from our wind energy customers and we were unable to take on new customers. We currently have sufficient capacity to meet demand from current wind energy customers and produce carbon fibers for additional large-scale applications. Our capacity expansion resulted in excess capacity costs of $12.8 million in 2010. Our future profitability and growth will depend upon our ability to enter into supply relationships with new customers for existing applications utilizing our carbon fibers and the development of new markets for large-scale applications which incorporate our carbon fiber products. Development of new customers for existing applications and new markets for our carbon fiber products will require substantial technical, marketing and sales efforts and the expenditure of significant funds. Development of new markets for carbon fibers may not occur. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if new customers and markets for our carbon fibers products do not develop. Increases in sales of our carbon fiber products are subject to long sales cycles of our customers. Our future profitability and growth will depend primarily upon our ability to enter into supply relationships with new customers for existing applications utilizing our carbon fibers and the development of new markets for a broad range of large-scale applications which incorporate our carbon fiber products. Our ability to increase sales of our carbon fiber products is subject to relatively long sales cycles of our customers due to new product development, manufacturing and engineering investments our customers must make to incorporate carbon fiber composites into their products. A limited number of customers generate a significant portion of our revenue and they may terminate their contracts with us in the event of certain changes in control or may require that we make penalty payments in the event we fail to perform. For fiscal 2010, our largest customer represented approximately 38.6% of our revenue and our three next largest customers accounted for 19.4% of our revenue. We anticipate that significant customer concentration will continue for the foreseeable future, although the composition of our largest customers may change from period to period. A significant portion of our total sales in fiscal 2010 were to customers in the wind energy market. Significant changes in demand for our customers’ wind turbines, the shares of their requirements that are awarded to us or changes in the design or materials used to construct their products could result in a significant loss of business with these customers. Our contracts with certain customers allow them to terminate their agreements with us or require us to make substantial penalty payments in the event we fail to perform our obligations under our agreements with them. The loss of, or significant reduction in the purchases by, these customers or any other significant customers could have a material adverse effect upon our future revenues and business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow. We reported net losses from continuing operations for fiscal 2010, 2009, 2007 and each of the five fiscal years preceding it. Although we reported net income in fiscal 2008, we have reported losses from continuing operations of $7.1 million, $12.3 million, $17.1 million, $38.2 million, $65.8 million $2.0 million, $4.2 million, and $6.3 in fiscal years 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, and 2007, 2009, and 2010 respectively. Net losses from continuing operations for the fiscal 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005 were attributable primarily to the cost of development and preliminary execution of our carbon fiber commercialization strategy. Demand for our carbon fiber products may be adversely affected by the current economic and credit environment. The United States and international economies recently have experienced (and continue to experience) a period of slow economic growth. A near-term economic recovery is uncertain. In particular, the current credit and housing crisis, the increase in U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults, potential terrorist acts and similar events, continued turmoil in the Middle East and war in general could contribute to a slowdown for products that require significant capital expenditures, including demand for large-scale projects that incorporate our carbon fibers. If the economic recovery slows down as a result of recent economic, political or social turmoil, we may experience decreases in the demand for our carbon fiber products, which will harm our operating results. 9 Table of Contents Our operations and sales in foreign countries are subject to risks. For fiscal 2010, approximately 58.6% of our revenues were derived from products supplied by our operations in Hungary. Our operations in Hungary and Mexico and our sales in other foreign countries are subject to risks associated with foreign operations and markets including the fact that many members of our senior management are resident in the United States, foreign currency fluctuations, unexpected changes in regulatory, economic or political conditions, tariffs and other trade barriers, longer payment cycles for accounts receivable, potentially adverse tax consequences, restrictions on repatriation of earnings and the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. These factors could have a material adverse effect upon our future revenues and business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow. Our ability to fund and manage our anticipated growth will affect our operating results. The growth in our business has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management and operations. In order to effectively manage potential long-term growth and to reach growth targets, we will need to add to our carbon fiber manufacturing capacity, have access to adequate financial resources to fund significant capital expenditures and maintain gross profit margins. We must also pursue a growth strategy and continue to strengthen our operations, including our financial and management information systems, and expanding, training and managing our employee workforce. There can be no assurance that we will be able to do so effectively or on a timely basis. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect upon our future revenues and business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow. Additionally, in the event that we need to obtain debt financing in the future to fund our growth, recent uncertainty in the credit markets could affect our ability to obtain debt financing on reasonable terms. Our operations are dependent upon our senior management and technical personnel. Our future operating results depend upon the continued service of our senior management and our technical personnel, and the management personnel in our domestic and international operations. Our future success will depend upon our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial and technical personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will retain our key managerial and technical employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining other highly qualified personnel in the future. Our operating results may fluctuate. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the timing of purchase orders for and shipments of our products, our ability to successfully operate our expanding production capacity and changes in production levels. Therefore, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results of operations have been and will be impacted by the timing of such orders and shipments. In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by these factors, among others, such as variations in the mix of product sales, price changes in response to competitive factors and interruptions in plant operations. Developments by competitors may reduce demand for our products and technologies, which may adversely affect our sales. We compete with various other participants in the advanced materials and textile fibers markets. All of our six principal competitors have substantially greater research and development, manufacturing, marketing, financial and managerial resources than we do. In addition, existing carbon fiber producers, including those that supply aerospace applications, may refocus their activities to produce carbon fiber for commercial applications that compete more directly with us and certain producers have announced plans to do so. Developments by existing or future competitors may render our products or technologies less competitive. In addition, we may not be able to keep pace with new technological developments. The price volatility of many of our raw materials and energy costs may result in increased production costs, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. A substantial portion of our raw materials are subject to price volatility and a significant portion of our manufacturing costs are energy costs. The cost of our primary raw material, ACN, increased by more than 100% after the end of fiscal 2009. We may not always be able to promptly raise product prices and, ultimately, pass on underlying cost increases to our customers. In addition, our competitors may be able to obtain raw materials at a lower cost than we can. Additional raw material and energy cost increases that we are not able to pass on to customers or the loss of a large number of customers to competitors as a result of price increases could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow. 10 Table of Contents We could be adversely affected by environmental and safety requirements. Our operations require the handling, use, storage and disposal of certain regulated materials and wastes. As a result, we are subject to various laws and regulations pertaining to pollution and protection of the environment, health and safety. These requirements govern, among other things, emissions to air, discharge to waters and the generation, handling, storage, treatment and disposal of waste and remediation of contaminated sites. We have made, and will continue to make, capital and other expenditures in order to comply with these laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and could become more stringent in the future. In addition, we may be required to comply with evolving environmental, health and safety laws, regulations or requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future or to address newly discovered information or conditions that require a response. Although most of our properties have been the subject of environmental site assessments, there can be no assurance that all potential instances of soil and groundwater contamination have been identified, even at those sites where assessments have been conducted. Accordingly, we may discover previously unknown environmental conditions and the cost of remediating such conditions may be material. Our business depends upon the maintenance of our proprietary technology. We depend upon our proprietary technology that is not subject to patent protection. We rely principally upon trade secret and copyright laws to protect our proprietary technology. We regularly enter into confidentiality agreements with our key employees, customers and potential customers and limit access to and distribution of our trade secrets and other proprietary information. These measures may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or to assure that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. In addition, the laws of other countries in which we operate may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We are also subject to the risk of adverse claims and litigation alleging infringement of intellectual property rights. Our existing lines of credit expire on January 1, 2011 and August 30, 2011 and failure to extend or replace these facilities could have a material adverse effect on us. Our existing $10.0 million U.S. line of credit and our $9.5 million Hungarian line of credit expire on January 1, 2011 and August 30, 2011, respectively. Based on our existing relationships with our lenders and our current financial condition, we believe that we will be able to extend these credit facilities beyond their current expiration dates or, if necessary, replace them. The failure to extend or replace our credit facilities on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We have incurred and will continue to incur increased costs and demands upon our management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could affect our operating results and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified management. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. We also have incurred and will incur costs associated with corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Global Select Market. The expenses incurred by public companies generally for reporting and corporate governance purposes have increased. These rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and have made some activities more time-consuming and costly. It is possible that these new rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage than used to be available. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as our executive officers. Our stock price has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate. Our stock price has fluctuated substantially over the past several years. Future announcements concerning us or our competitors or customers, quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations, the introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors, developments regarding proprietary rights, changes in earnings estimates by analysts or reports regarding us or our industry in the financial press or investment advisory publications, among other factors, could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, stock prices for many emerging growth companies fluctuate widely for reasons often unrelated to operating results. These fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rates, world events, military conflicts or market-sector declines, may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Any information concerning us, including projections of future operating results, appearing in investment advisory publications or on-line bulletin boards, or otherwise emanating from a source other than from us, should not be relied upon as having been supplied or endorsed by us. 11 Table of Contents A change of control of our company may be discouraged, delayed or prevented by our classified board of directors, our ability to issue preferred stock, or the voting control of our principal shareholder. Our Articles of Incorporation divide the board of directors into three classes, with three-year staggered terms. The classified board provision could increase the likelihood that, in the event an outside party acquired a controlling block of our stock, incumbent directors nevertheless would retain their positions for a substantial period, which may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. The possible impact of such discouragement, delay or prevention of takeover attempts could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our Articles of Incorporation also authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the board of directors. Accordingly, the board of directors is empowered, without shareholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of common stock. Holders of common stock will have no preemptive rights to subscribe for a pro rata portion of any preferred stock that may be issued. If issued, the preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. The possible impact that the issuance of preferred stock could have on a takeover attempt could adversely affect the price of the common stock. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of preferred stock, we may do so in the future. Zsolt Rumy, our founder and principal shareholder, owns approximately 17.7% of outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, he has and will continue to have significant voting control over our company. Future sales of common stock could affect the price of our common stock. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of shares or the availability of shares for sale will have on the market price of our common stock prevailing from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales might occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not currently intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your common stock for the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 12 Table of Contents 