Risk Factors The value of an investment in Dynacq Healthcare, Inc. is subject to significant risks, certain of which are specific to our Company, others are inherent in our business and the industry in which we operate, and still others are market related. If any of the matters described in the risk factors listed below were to occur, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to our Business A significant percentage of our revenues are generated through relatively few physicians. For the fiscal year ended August 31, 2005, approximately 73% of our gross revenues were generated from 16 surgeons, primarily in our Pasadena Facility. For the fiscal year ended August 31, 2004, approximately 57% of our gross revenues were generated from 11 surgeons. The loss of physicians who provide significant net patient revenues for the Company may adversely affect our results of operations. Our expansion into international operations could be harmed by economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. Our investment in the DeAn Joint Venture for the development of the China Project requires us to make contributions of approximately $8.5 million before March 31, 2007, comply with requirements regarding the use of the land, comply with applicable national and Shanghai local regulations and rules, provide compensation for damage or destruction to the property, and pay an initial land premium for the land use right and a land use charge each year during the land use term. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient capital to complete the construction and development of the facility in China in a timely manner, or that we will be able to successfully conduct our operations in China or in any other future foreign markets. The failure to do so, including the failure to attract patients and to recruit qualified physicians to this facility, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The risks associated with international expansion could adversely affect our ability to expand our business. Expansion of our operations into new markets entails substantial working capital and capital requirements associated with complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, complexities related to obtaining agreements from foreign governments and third parties, foreign taxes, and financial risks, such as those related to foreign currency fluctuations. International expansion will also be subject to general geopolitical risks, such as political and economic instability and changes in diplomatic relationships. In many market areas, other healthcare facilities and companies already have significant presence, the effect of which could be to make it more difficult for us to attract patients and recruit qualified physicians. We are subject to substantial uninsured liabilities for which we have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant expenses. We are currently defending a class action lawsuit filed by shareholders against us, our directors and officers for allegedly publishing materially misleading financial statements, making materially false or misleading statements or omissions regarding our financial condition, and engaging in a fraudulent schedule to inflate the value of our stock. In fiscal 2005, we also engaged in extensive bankruptcy proceedings on behalf of VHBR, which were concluded in August 2005. These cases, in addition to the legal actions alleging malpractice, product liability or related legal theories that are common in our industry, have involved significant costs and a major drain on management’s time and resources. Prospectively, we anticipate our legal expenses to increase because of the new requirements to seek judicial review of MDR determinations in the district courts of Travis County, Texas rather than through an administrative process. Although we maintain professional malpractice liability insurance and general liability insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe to be appropriate for our operations, our insurance coverage may 15 Table of Contents not be sufficient or continue to be available at a cost allowing us to maintain adequate levels of insurance. Our professional malpractice liability insurance has covered the majority of malpractice and related legal claims to date; however, the cost of the bankruptcy proceedings and of defending the shareholder derivative suits and any damages awarded as a result of those suits, are paid by the Company. In addition, the large monetary claims and significant defense costs involved in many of the malpractice claims may exceed the limits of our insurance coverage. If one or more successful claims against us were not covered by or exceeded the coverage of our insurance, we could be adversely affected. We do not employ any of the physicians who conduct procedures at our hospitals, and the governing documents of each of our hospitals require physicians who conduct procedures at our hospitals to maintain stated amounts of insurance. We indemnify our directors and officers against certain liabilities and do not presently carry director and officer liability insurance. As permitted under Delaware law and pursuant to our governing documents and indemnification agreements with certain of our officers and directors, we indemnify our directors against monetary damages for breach of a director’s fiduciary duty and advance expenses to the full extent permitted by Delaware law. As a result, shareholders’ rights to recover against directors for breach of fiduciary duty are limited. We do not carry director and officer liability insurance, so our assets are at risk in the event of successful claims against us or our officers and directors. Our assets may not be sufficient to satisfy judgments against us and our officers and directors in the event of such successful claims. In addition, our lack of director and officer liability insurance may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain highly qualified directors and officers in the future. Our ability to borrow under our Credit Agreement is limited by our borrowing base. Our borrowing capacity under our borrowing base credit facility is based on eligible accounts receivable that we generate from operations. As of August 31, 2005, our borrowing capacity under the facility was $6.5 million, and approximately $3.8 million was outstanding on this facility. All of our collections pay down the balance based on the lockbox account. If our collections on accounts receivable or our eligible receivables decline, our ability to borrow additional amounts under this credit facility will be reduced. In that case, we may be unable to fully fund our budgeted amounts for capital expenditures, acquire new facilities or meet our obligations to our creditors. Our indebtedness under our credit facility is secured by substantially all of our accounts receivable assets. If we are unable to repay all outstanding balances, the lender could proceed against our assets to satisfy our obligations under the credit facility. The cash that we generate from our business may not be sufficient to meet our financial obligations, and if we are unable to obtain sufficient additional funds on acceptable terms, our business could be adversely affected. If we are unable to meet our obligations, we will be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as refinancing, selling material assets or operations or seeking to raise additional debt or equity capital. None of these alternatives may be available to us, and as a result, our operations and financial condition may be significantly adversely impacted. If we are unable to acquire and develop additional hospitals on favorable terms, we may be unable to execute our acquisition and development strategy, which could limit our future growth. One of our strategies to increase our revenues and earnings is to acquire and develop additional hospitals. Our efforts to execute our acquisition and development strategy may be affected by our ability to identify suitable candidates and negotiate and close acquisition and development transactions. The hospitals we develop typically incur losses during the early stages of operation and, unless and until their caseloads grow, they generally experience lower total revenues and operating margins than established hospitals. We may not be successful in acquiring additional hospitals, developing hospitals or achieving satisfactory operating results at acquired or newly developed hospitals. Further, assets we acquire in the future may not ultimately produce returns that justify our related investment. If we are not able to execute our acquisition and development strategy, our ability to increase revenues and earnings through acquisition growth would be impaired. 16 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired hospitals. We significantly expanded and intend to continue to expand our operations pending availability of capital and attractive acquisition prospects. Our growth has placed, and will continue to place, increased demands on our management, operational and financial information systems and other resources. Current and future expansion of our operations has required and will require substantial financial resources and management attention. To accommodate our past and potential future growth and to compete effectively, we will need to continue to implement and improve our management, operational and financial information systems and to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce. Our personnel, systems, procedures or controls may not be adequate to support our operations in the future. Further, focusing our financial resources and management attention on the expansion of our operations may negatively impact our financial results. Our independent auditors advised us in the past that they identified material weaknesses in our internal controls. Our independent auditors advised us in the past that they identified what they considered to be material weaknesses in our internal controls with respect to family relationships among certain of our officers and employees and the failure to properly utilize the inventory software to track and report our inventory quantities on a real time basis. The auditors advised us that nothing came to their attention during the audit that led them to believe that these material weaknesses in our internal controls remained at August 31, 2005. If material weaknesses in our internal controls were to be identified in the future and we failed to properly and timely address the issues identified, it could adversely impact the accuracy of future reports and filings and the timeliness of such reports and filings made pursuant to the Exchange Act. In addition, for the audit of our financial statements for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2007, we must comply with Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by the independent auditors addressing those assessments. While we have implemented and are continuing to implement steps to ensure compliance with Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, failure to comply with such requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are dependent on certain key personnel. The Company is dependent upon a limited number of key management, technical and professional personnel. The Company’s future success will depend, in part, upon its ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. The Company faces competition for such personnel from other companies and organizations, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel. The Company does not have written employment agreements with any of its officers providing for specific terms of employment, and officers and other key personnel could leave the Company’s employment with little or no prior notice. The Company’s loss of key personnel, especially if the loss is without advance notice, or the Company’s inability to hire or retain key personnel, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company does not carry any key man life insurance. Risks Associated with our Industry Recent changes in Texas law could adversely affect the Company’s operations, collections experience and liquidity. In 2005, Texas significantly changed its workers’ compensation system to require employees whose employers and carriers choose to utilize a network, to seek healthcare from a network healthcare provider. If any one of our hospitals chooses not to participate in a network, or a network refuses one of our hospital’s applications to participate in the network, our operations could be adversely affected. In addition, effective September 1, 2005, the amount of reimbursement provided by a third-party payer for claims arising prior to the implementation of workers’ compensation networks and out of network claims, and not resolved through the MDR process can only be appealed through judicial review of the decision by a Travis County District Court. Any reimbursement pursued through this process may involve delays and compromises due to the subjective nature of the administrative and judicial process and the lack of established timeframes in which the 17 Table of Contents reimbursement disputes are to be resolved. This results in the aging of our receivables which affects our liquidity and, in some instances, actual recoveries. Any modification to current reimbursement guidelines may reduce the amount of our reimbursement for future services, thereby increasing contractual discounts. The fact that our collection process may be longer than other healthcare providers presents inherent risks in ultimate collection. If we fail to comply with the extensive laws and complex government regulations applicable to us, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. The healthcare industry is highly regulated and must comply with extensive government regulation at the federal, state and local levels. Hospitals must meet requirements for licensure, certification to participate in government programs and accreditation. In addition, there are regulatory requirements related to areas such as adequacy and quality of medical care, relationships with physicians and other referral sources (Anti-kickback Statute and Stark law, for example), qualifications of medical and support personnel, billing for services, confidentiality of medical records, emergency care and compliance with building codes. While we believe that we are in substantial compliance with these extensive government laws and regulations, if we fail to comply with any of the laws or regulations we could be subject to criminal penalties and civil sanctions, and our facilities could lose their licenses and their ability to participate in federal and state healthcare programs. In addition, government laws and regulations, or the interpretation of such laws and regulations, may change. In that case, we may have to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services or business structures so that our facilities may remain licensed and qualified to participate in federal and state programs. If the rules governing reimbursement are revised or interpreted in a different manner or if a determination is made that we did not comply with these requirements, we could be subject to denials of payment or recoupment of payments already received for services provided to patients. Specifically, the federal Anti-kickback Statute and the Stark law are very broad in scope, and many of their provisions have not been uniformly or definitively interpreted. See Business – Government Regulation for an in- depth description of those statutes. If the ownership distributions paid to physicians by our hospitals are found to constitute prohibited payments made to physicians under the Anti-kickback Statute, physician self-referral or other fraud and abuse laws, our business may be adversely affected. Other companies within the healthcare industry continue to be the subject of federal and state investigations that could increase the risk that we may become subject to similar investigations in the future. The failure of any of our workers compensation physicians to participate in a health care network or be on the approved doctor list could negatively impact our operations. Since September 2003, the TDWC has required that injured employees in Texas receive healthcare from a doctor on the approved doctors’ list, except in an emergency or for the immediate post-injury medical care, or after January 1, 2006, from a physician who participates in a workers’ compensation health care network. Doctors who do not participate in a network must be on the approved list, whether licensed in Texas or licensed by another jurisdiction, and are required to complete training mandated by the TDWC, apply for a certificate of registration and disclose any required financial interests. At this time, we believe that all doctors involved in the care and treatment of patients covered by the Texas Worker’s Compensation Act who maintain medical staff privileges at the Company’s locations have applied to be on the approved list and have either been granted a temporary exception or have been placed on the approved list. The TDWC reserves the right to review a doctor at any time and take action at a later date for all doctors currently placed on the approved list. The failure of any of our physicians to attain or maintain listing on the approved list or to participate in a network could adversely affect our operations. If laws governing the corporate practice of medicine change, we may be required to restructure some of our relationships. The laws of various states in which we operate or may operate in the future do not or may not permit business corporations to practice medicine, exercise control over physicians who practice medicine or engage in various business practices, such as fee-splitting with physicians. The interpretation and enforcement of these laws 18 Table of Contents vary significantly from state to state. A government agency charged with enforcement of these laws, or a private party, might assert that our arrangements with physicians and physician group practices do not comply with applicable corporate practice of medicine laws. If our arrangements with these physicians and physician group practices were deemed to violate state corporate practice of medicine, fee-splitting or similar laws, or if new laws were enacted rendering these arrangements illegal, we may be required to restructure our relationships with physicians and physician groups, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our revenues could decrease due to a reduction in payments from third-party payers and other circumstances over which we have no control. We are dependent upon private and governmental third-party sources of payment for the services provided to patients in our healthcare facilities. The amount of payment our facilities receive for their services may be adversely affected by market and cost factors as well as other factors over which we have no control, including federal and state regulations and the cost containment and utilization decisions of third-party payers. Further, complicated reimbursement rules that are subject to interpretation may subject us to denials of payment for services provided or to recoupments of payments already received. We have no control over the number of patients that are referred to our facilities annually. Fixed fee schedules, capitation payment arrangements, exclusion from participation in managed care programs or other factors affecting payments for healthcare services over which we do not have control could also cause a reduction in our revenues. New federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to patient privacy and electronic data security could require us to expend substantial sums acquiring and implementing new information and transaction systems, which could negatively impact our financial results. HIPAA regulations addressing patient privacy concerns and standards for the exchange of electronic health information were expected to have a financial impact on the healthcare industry because they imposed extensive new requirements and restrictions on the use and disclosure of identifiable patient information. Because of the nature of the security and privacy regulations, we cannot predict the total financial or other impact of these regulations on our business, and compliance with these regulations could require us to spend substantial sums, which could negatively impact our financial results. We believe that we are in material compliance with existing state and federal regulations relating to patient privacy and security. However, if we fail to comply with the regulations, we could suffer substantial civil and criminal penalties for each violation. In addition, we will continue to remain subject to state laws that may be more restrictive than the federal privacy regulations. See Business—Government Regulation—Health Information Security and Privacy Practices for further explanation of these regulations. We are dependent upon the good reputation of our physicians. The success of our business is dependent upon quality medical services being rendered by our physicians. Any negative publicity, whether from civil litigation, allegations of criminal misconduct, or forfeiture of medical licenses, with respect to any of our physicians and/or our facilities could adversely affect our results of operations. This could occur through the loss of a physician who provides significant revenue to the Company, or decisions by patients to use different physicians or facilities with respect to their healthcare needs. In addition, we have been the subject of negative publicity in news reports focusing on our Pasadena Facility, which has harmed our business and reputation. As the patient-physician relationship involves inherent trust and confidence, any negative publicity adversely affecting the reputation of our physicians or our facilities would likely adversely affect our results of operations. Our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and healthcare providers. The healthcare business is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals and other healthcare providers for patients has intensified in recent years. Generally, other hospitals in the local communities served by most of our hospitals provide services similar to those offered by our hospitals. In addition, the number of freestanding specialty hospitals and surgery and diagnostic centers in the geographic areas in which we operate 19 Table of Contents has increased significantly. As a result, most of our hospitals operate in an increasingly competitive environment. Some of the hospitals that compete with our hospitals are owned by governmental agencies or not-for-profit corporations supported by endowments and charitable contributions and can finance capital expenditures and operations on a tax-exempt basis. Increasingly, we are facing competition by physician-owned freestanding surgery centers that compete for market share in high margin services and for quality physicians and personnel. If our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their healthcare facilities, we may experience a decline in patient volume. Our hospitals face competition for staffing, which may increase our labor costs and reduce profitability. Our operations are dependent on the effort, abilities and experience of the management and medical support personnel, such as nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, as well as our physicians. We compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and medical support personnel responsible for the day-to-day operations of each of our hospitals. In some markets, the availability of nurses and other medical support personnel has become a significant operating issue to healthcare providers. This shortage may require us to continue to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or to hire more expensive temporary personnel. We also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate. If our labor costs increase, we may not be able to raise rates to offset these increased costs. Our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other medical support personnel, or to control our labor costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Market Risks Related to Our Stock A single stockholder controls a majority of our outstanding shares. Our chairman and chief executive officer beneficially owns an aggregate of approximately 57.9% of our issued and outstanding common stock. As a majority stockholder, he is able to control all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of any directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, he is in a position to control the management of our business and the appointment of executive officers as well as all management personnel. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control, or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In the event that this stockholder elects to sell significant amounts of shares of common stock in the future, such sales could depress the market price of our common stock, further increasing the volatility of our trading market. Our common stock has a limited trading market, which could affect your ability to sell shares of our common stock and the price you may receive for our common stock. Our common stock is currently quoted on the Nasdaq Capital Markets. There is only limited trading activity in our securities. We have a relatively small public float compared to our market capitalization. Accordingly, we cannot predict the extent to which investors’ interest in our common stock will provide an active and liquid trading market. Due to our limited public float, we may be vulnerable to investors taking a “short position” in our common stock, which would likely have a depressing effect on the price of our common stock and add increased volatility to our trading market. Furthermore, we have been, and in the future may be subject to, class action lawsuits that further increase market volatility. The volatility of the market for our common stock could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Accordingly, investors must be able to bear the financial risk of losing their entire investment in our common stock. Future issuance of additional shares of our stock could cause dilution of ownership interests and adversely affect our stock price. We may in the future issue our authorized and unissued securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of current shareholders. In addition to 85,148,432 shares of common stock we have that are authorized to issue but are unissued, our board may issue up to 5 million shares of preferred stock which may have greater 20 Table of Contents rights than our common stock, without seeking approval from holders of our common stock. In addition, we are obligated to issue an aggregate of 1,491,136 shares of common stock upon the exercise of options currently outstanding under our 1995 Nonqualified Plan and 2000 Incentive Plan. That number represents 10% of our currently outstanding shares and, if all shares were issued, would result in the dilution of the ownership interests of our current shareholders and may adversely affect our stock price. There are an additional 2,935,046 shares subject to options not yet granted under the plans, and we may grant additional options or warrants in the future to purchase shares of our common stock. The exercise price of each option granted under our option plans is equal to the fair market value of the shares on the date of grant, although that price may be substantially less than the value per share on the date of exercise. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not expect to do so in the foreseeable future. It has been our policy to use all available funds from operations to improve and expand our current facilities and to acquire new facilities. For that reason, we have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and have no present intention to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, our credit facility limits the circumstances under which we can pay dividends. Therefore an investor in our common stock should not expect to obtain any economic benefit from owning our common stock prior to a sale of those shares, if then. 