Item 1A. Risk Factors. The value of an investment in Dynacq Healthcare, Inc. is subject to significant risks, certain of which are specific to our Company, others are inherent in our business and the industry in which we operate, and still others are market related. If any of the matters described in the risk factors listed below were to occur, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. The Risk Factors described below apply to the current operations and market for the common stock of the Company, and do not address risks that may arise in the future. Risks Related to our Business Because managing hospitals in China is new and differs from our experience in managing hospitals in the U.S., our efforts to obtain management contracts in that country may not be successful, and the management of the hospitals in Rui An and any other hospitals we may manage may not be profitable. We have invested a substantial amount of funds and management resources into the development of our China Division. There is no reliable history of foreign participation in the operation of hospitals in China on which to base our prospects for success. Our experience in managing hospitals in the U.S. may not fully equip us to manage hospitals in China with different government regulation, reimbursement programs, physician relationships and billing systems. Specifically, the limitations placed by the Department of Health of each province on allowable charges by the province hospitals for medical prescriptions and procedures will limit our ability to increase revenues based on costs per prescription or procedure. The agreement under which Dynacq-Huai Bei manages the Second People’s Hospital in Rui An provided for substantial investment of funds in capital expenditures for that hospital, the repayment of liabilities, and the loan of certain amounts to that hospital, which resulted in a net operating loss of approximately $288,000 in fiscal 2010 and $2.6 million for the nine months during which it was subject to the management agreement in fiscal 2009. Without the recruitment of new surgeons and a significant increase in patient volume, and/or an increase in the local government’s established allowable charges for the sale of prescription medications and medical services, Dynacq-Huai Bei’s opportunity to realize profits from the management of Second People’s Hospital, and possibly other hospitals in China, is limited. Although management agreements on additional hospitals may vary in their terms, there can be no assurances that additional management agreements will be undertaken or, if undertaken, that the terms of those agreements will allow the Company to realize profits from the management arrangement. We have no experience in any industry other than the operation of hospitals and medical office buildings, so the proposed expansion into other industries may involve unforeseen difficulties with which we are unable to deal effectively. We are expanding our investments into areas other than the hospital industry in China that have a potential for higher profits. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities or acquire new businesses at a price and on terms that are attractive or that, once acquired, the businesses will operate profitably. Acquisitions could expose the Company to unforeseen liabilities or risks associated with entering new markets or businesses. Consequently, we might not be successful in integrating our acquisitions into our existing operations, which may result in unforeseen operational difficulties or diminished financial performance or require a disproportionate amount of our management’s attention and resources. Even if we are successful in integrating our acquisitions into our existing operations, we may not derive the benefits that we expect from such acquisitions, which may result in the commitment of capital resources without the anticipated returns on such capital. Competition for acquisition opportunities may escalate, increasing our cost of making further acquisitions or causing us to refrain from making additional acquisitions. Because of our lack of experience in these new industries, we may encounter issues with which we are not equipped to deal effectively and which may materially adversely affect our investments in those businesses. We could owe the local government in China for apportionment of a portion of income in terms of the contract for Second People’s Hospital. The management agreement for the Second People’s Hospital requires that 1% of the drug income, and drug income in excess of 40% of total sales, of the hospital be paid to the government. This requirement was designed to control the cost of drugs by discouraging the sale by the hospital of drugs purchased from other than approved drug 19 Table of Contents vendors. However, the local government has not published a list of approved drug vendors and therefore has not enforced the payment provision since the inception of the original management agreement. The Company has been advised by a local attorney that enforcement of that provision is remote, so it has not accrued the amount that would be payable to the local government if this provision were enforced. If the government were to enforce this provision, Dynacq-Huai Bei could potentially owe approximately $1.4 million to the government for the period of time since inception of the original management contract on the hospital to August 31, 2010. Our business could be adversely affected by foreign currency fluctuation. Because we received over 97% of our revenue (excluding discontinued operations) within China in fiscal 2010, and have total assets of approximately $24 million which are denominated in currency other than the U.S. dollar (USD), we have foreign currency exchange risk. The Chinese currency (RMB) is not freely traded and is closely controlled by the Chinese Government. The U.S. dollar (USD) has experienced volatility in world markets recently. During fiscal 2010 the RMB was basically unchanged against the USD. During fiscal 2010, fluctuation in the Euro – Hong Kong dollar and USD – RMB exchange rate resulted in exchange losses of $342,000, which are included in rent and other income in our consolidated statements of operations. The recent economic downturn may adversely affect our revenues. The recent weakening in the United States economy, tightening credit markets, depressed consumer spending and higher unemployment rates may result in decreased spending for healthcare services resulting in decreased revenues for our hospitals. Other risks we face from the general economic weakness include potential declines in the population covered under managed care agreements, patient decisions to postpone or cancel elective and non-emergency healthcare procedures, potential increases in the uninsured and underinsured populations and further difficulties in our collecting patient copayment and deductible receivables. Our expansion into international operations could be harmed by economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. The risks associated with international expansion could adversely affect our ability to expand our business. Expansion of our operations into new markets entails substantial working capital and capital requirements associated with complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, complexities related to obtaining agreements from foreign governments and third parties, foreign taxes, and financial risks, such as those related to foreign currency fluctuations. International expansion will also be subject to general geopolitical risks, such as political and economic instability and changes in diplomatic relationships. In many market areas, other healthcare facilities and companies already have significant presence, the effect of which could be to make it more difficult for us to attract patients and recruit qualified physicians. There can be no assurances that we will be able to successfully manage the hospitals in Rui An or other hospitals that we may enter into contracts to manage. The failure to do so, including the failure to attract patients and to recruit qualified physicians to those facilities, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our investments in marketable securities in foreign markets are subject to a high degree of risk and differences in market conditions than those in the U.S. We have significant unrealized gains on our investment in available-for-sale securities. Approximately 29% of our assets are currently represented by foreign investment securities, which are generally less liquid, more volatile and harder to value than U.S. securities. These foreign investments are subject to unique risks such as currency risk, political, social and economic risk, and foreign market and trading risk. Foreign investments may be affected by political, social or economic events occurring in a country where the bonds are invested, which could cause the investments in that country to experience gains or losses. Lack of public information and uniform auditing, accounting and financial reporting standards in foreign countries make disclosure of investment information different from that available from domestic issuers. The trading markets for these investments are significantly less active than U.S. markets and may have less governmental regulation and oversight. Because of these risks, and others, there can be no assurance that the Company’s investments in securities in foreign markets will retain or increase in value or can be liquidated at a price or time favorable to the Company. 20 Table of Contents A significant percentage of our revenues are generated through relatively few physicians. For the fiscal year ended August 31, 2010, approximately 85% of our gross revenues of discontinued operations in the United States were generated from 18 surgeons. For the fiscal year ended August 31, 2009, approximately 83% of our gross revenues of discontinued operations in the United States were generated from 21 surgeons. The loss of physicians who provide significant net patient revenues for the Company may adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to substantial uninsured liabilities for which we have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant expenses. In January 2007, Dynacq settled a class action lawsuit filed by shareholders against it and its directors and officers for allegedly publishing materially misleading financial statements, making materially false or misleading statements or omissions regarding its financial condition, and engaging in a fraudulent schedule to inflate the value of its stock. This case, in addition to the legal actions alleging malpractice, product liability or related legal theories that are common in our industry, have involved significant costs and a major drain on management’s time and resources. Although we maintain professional malpractice liability insurance and general liability insurance coverage for our U.S. facilities in amounts and with deductibles that we believe to be appropriate for our operations, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient or continue to be available at a cost allowing us to maintain adequate levels of insurance. Our professional malpractice liability insurance has covered the majority of malpractice and related legal claims to date; however, the cost of defending the shareholder derivative suits and any damages awarded as a result of those suits, are paid by the Company. In addition, the large monetary claims and significant defense costs involved in many of the malpractice claims may exceed the limits of our insurance coverage. If one or more successful claims against us were not covered by or exceeded the coverage of our insurance, we could be adversely affected. We do not employ any of the physicians who conduct procedures at our hospitals, and the governing documents of each of our hospitals require physicians who conduct procedures at our hospitals to maintain stated amounts of insurance. We indemnify our directors and officers against certain liabilities and do not presently carry director and officer liability insurance. As permitted under Nevada law and pursuant to our governing documents and indemnification agreements with certain of our officers and directors, we indemnify our directors against monetary damages for breach of a director’s fiduciary duty, including advancing expenses, to the full extent permitted by Nevada law. As a result, shareholders’ rights to recover against directors for breach of fiduciary duty are limited. We do not carry director and officer liability insurance, so our assets are at risk in the event of successful claims against us or our officers and directors. Our assets may not be sufficient to satisfy judgments against us and our officers and directors in the event of such successful claims. In addition, our lack of director and officer liability insurance may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain highly qualified directors and officers in the future. We are dependent on the services of our chief executive officer and the head of our China Division. The Company’s future success, particularly in the development of its business in China, will depend upon its ability to retain the services of its chief executive officer and the head of the China Division. Our chief executive officer’s extensive experience and reputation in the healthcare industry in Texas is essential to the success of our domestic operations, and his vision and contacts in China are essential to the success of our operations in that country. The head of our China Division has extensive experience in the healthcare industry as well as a network of contacts in industry and government in China, all of which are key to the development of our business in China. The Company does not have written employment agreements with either of these persons providing for specific terms of employment, and does not carry any key man life insurance. The Company’s loss of either of these key personnel, especially if the loss is without advance notice, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. 21 Table of Contents We hold accounts with certain financial institutions that exceed the FDIC and SIPC insurance limits. The Company has financial instruments that are exposed to concentrations of credit risk and consist primarily of cash investments and trade accounts receivable. The Company routinely maintains cash and temporary cash investments at certain financial institutions in amounts substantially in excess of Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) and Securities Investor Protection Corporation (“SIPC”) insurance limits. In Hong Kong, the entire deposit amounts are protected by the Deposit Protection Scheme and, up to the end of 2010, a guarantee provided by the Hong Kong SAR Government’s Exchange Fund. At August 31, 2010, the Company had cash balances in excess of the FDIC and SIPC limits of $19.6 million. The management believes that these financial institutions are of high quality and the risk of loss is minimal. However, we could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations if any of these financial institutions were to fail and we were unable to recover our cash balances. Risks Associated with our Industry The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, (collectively, the “2010 Health Care Legislation”) may have a significant impact on our existing and future joint ventures. The 2010 Health Care Legislation includes significant revisions to the portion of the Social Security Act commonly known as the “Stark law,” which generally prohibits physicians from referring Medicare and Medicaid patients to providers of enumerated “designated health services” with whom the physician or a member of the physician’s immediate family has an ownership interest or compensation arrangement. Such referrals are deemed to be “self-referrals” due to the physician’s financial relationship with the entity providing the designated health services. An exception to the general self-referral prohibition, commonly known as the “Whole Hospital Exception,” previously existed under the Stark law for physician ownership and/or investment in an entire hospital (rather than a subdivision of a hospital), provided that certain requirements were met. Under the 2010 Health Care Legislation, the availability of the Whole Hospital Exception will depend on physician ownership or investment in a new hospital entity and the existence of a provider agreement by December 31, 2010, provided certain other conditions are met. The 2010 Health Care Legislation also provides that the percentage of physician ownership or investment interests held in a new hospital entity by physician owners or investors cannot exceed the percentage that existed as of March 23, 2010, the date on which the legislation was enacted. The interplay of the dates under these two provisions of the 2010 Health Care Legislation and other related matters creates uncertainty that has not yet been clarified by regulation or other interpretive guidance. Moreover, under the 2010 Health Care Legislation, except in certain circumstances pursuant to an expansion exception process that has yet to be formally established, the number of operating rooms, procedure rooms and licensed beds in a hospital having physician ownership cannot be increased beyond the amount that existed on March 23, 2010. The provisions of the 2010 Health Care Legislation that are described herein, as well as other provisions therein and future interpretations, rulings and guidance, could have a significant impact on our existing and future joint ventures. If we fail to comply with the extensive laws and complex government regulations applicable to us, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. Our operations in China are also subject to environmental laws, rules and regulations regarding medical waste, medical radioactive agents and pollution. Additionally our operations in China are subject to government regulation of the healthcare industry. The violation of any of these laws, rules or regulations could result in fines and other penalties that could adversely affect the successful operation of our hospitals. The U.S. healthcare industry is highly regulated and must comply with extensive government regulation at the federal, state and local levels. Hospitals must meet requirements for licensure, certification to participate in government programs and accreditation. In addition, there are regulatory requirements related to areas such as adequacy and quality of medical care, relationships with physicians and other referral sources (Anti-kickback Statute and Stark law, for example), qualifications of medical and support personnel, billing for services, confidentiality of medical records, emergency care and compliance with building codes. While we believe that we are in substantial compliance with these extensive government laws and regulations, if we fail to comply with any of the laws or regulations we could be subject to criminal penalties and civil sanctions, and our facilities could lose their licenses 22 Table of Contents and their ability to participate in federal and state healthcare programs. In addition, government laws and regulations, or the interpretation of such laws and regulations, may change. In that case, we may have to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services or business structures so that our facilities may remain licensed and qualified to participate in federal and state programs. If the rules governing reimbursement are revised or interpreted in a different manner or if a determination is made that we did not comply with these requirements, we could be subject to denials of payment or recoupment of payments already received for services provided to patients. Specifically, the federal Anti-kickback Statute and the Stark law are very broad in scope, and many of their provisions have not been uniformly or definitively interpreted. See Business – Government Regulation for an in- depth description of those statutes. If the ownership distributions paid to physicians by our hospitals are found to constitute prohibited payments made to physicians under the Anti-kickback Statute, physician self-referral or other fraud and abuse laws, our business may be adversely affected. Other companies within the healthcare industry continue to be the subject of federal and state investigations that could increase the risk that we may become subject to similar investigations in the future. If laws governing the corporate practice of medicine change, we may be required to restructure some of our relationships. The laws of various states in which we operate or may operate in the future do not or may not permit business corporations to practice medicine, exercise control over physicians who practice medicine or engage in various business practices, such as fee-splitting with physicians. The interpretation and enforcement of these laws vary significantly from state to state. A government agency charged with enforcement of these laws, or a private party, might assert that our arrangements with physicians and physician group practices do not comply with applicable corporate practice of medicine laws. If our arrangements with these physicians and physician group practices were deemed to violate state corporate practice of medicine, fee-splitting or similar laws, or if new laws were enacted rendering these arrangements illegal, we may be required to restructure our relationships with physicians and physician groups, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. Changes to the Fee Guidelines for Texas workers’ compensation cases have resulted in lower reimbursement and may result in a decrease in the number of those type of procedures performed. The Texas Workers’ Compensation 2008 Acute Care Hospital Outpatient and Inpatient Facility Fee Guidelines which became effective March 1, 2008 establish reimbursement amounts for workers’ compensation procedures performed at our facilities. Those amounts are determined by applying the most recently adopted and effective Medicare reimbursement formula and factors as published annually in the Federal Register, including identifying the appropriate Ambulatory Payment Classification for outpatient services provided, or Diagnosis Related Group for inpatient services provided. The applicable classification or group is used to determine the maximum allowable reimbursement for the procedures performed unless not calculable using Guidelines, in which case reimbursement will be determined on a fair and reasonable basis. Based on these new Guidelines, the reimbursement due the Company for workers’ compensation cases is lower than we previously experienced. Our net patient service revenues attributable to Texas workers’ compensation cases as a percentage of gross billings have decreased and may continue to decrease as a result of lower reimbursement rates for workers’ compensation procedures still being performed. Our revenues may not increase due to a reduction in payments from third-party payers, a shift in the surgical mix, government cost controls and/or other circumstances over which we have no control. In China, the local government Department of Health establishes billing rates for a hospital’s sale of prescription medication and medical services, thereby limiting the amounts Second People’s Hospital may charge for those medications and services. Services provided under the local government’s social healthcare insurance program, which constitute a small part of the revenues of Second People’s Hospital, are generally paid at approximately 95% of billed charges in two to three months after the date of service. The remaining 5% of billed charges is evaluated by the local government Department of Health on a semi-annual basis and may be paid to the hospital after that evaluation is complete. 23 Table of Contents We are dependent upon private and governmental third-party sources of payment for the services provided to patients in our healthcare facilities. The amount of payment our facilities receive for their services may be adversely affected by market and cost factors as well as other factors over which we have no control, including federal and state regulations and the cost containment and utilization decisions of third-party payers. The Company’s decision to participate in certain managed care contracts may not result in an increase in patient revenues if we are unable to obtain favorable managed care contracts, we are excluded from participation in a managed care contract, or the reimbursement rate for the procedure performed is too low. Further, complicated reimbursement rules that are subject to interpretation may subject us to denials of payment for services provided or to recoupments of payments already received. We have no control over the number of patients that are referred to our facilities annually or whether such patients will be admitted as inpatients that typically have a higher reimbursement rate per procedure, or outpatients. Fixed fee schedules, capitation payment arrangements, exclusion from participation in managed care programs or other factors affecting payments for healthcare services over which we do not have control could also cause a reduction in our revenues. We are dependent upon the good reputation of our physicians. The success of our business is dependent upon quality medical services being rendered by our physicians. Any negative publicity, whether from civil litigation, allegations of criminal misconduct, or forfeiture of medical licenses, with respect to any of our physicians and/or our facilities could adversely affect our results of operations. This could occur through the loss of a physician who provides significant revenue to the Company, or decisions by patients to use different physicians or facilities with respect to their healthcare needs. Several years ago Dynacq was the subject of negative publicity in news reports focusing on its Pasadena facility, which harmed its business and reputation. As the patient-physician relationship involves inherent trust and confidence, any negative publicity adversely affecting the reputation of our physicians or our facilities would likely adversely affect our results of operations. Our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and healthcare providers. Although most hospitals in China are owned and operated by the local governments subject to the oversight by the central government, there currently exist joint venture arrangements between foreign healthcare providers and government owned hospitals, principally in major cities such as Shanghai and Beijing. Some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than the Company in China. The Second People’s Hospital in the city of Rui An is subject to significant competition from the First People’s Hospital which is a much larger hospital located in the downtown area offering specialty surgeries not currently available at the hospital we manage. The healthcare business is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals and other healthcare providers for patients has intensified in recent years. Generally, other hospitals in the local communities served by most of our U.S. hospitals provide services similar to those offered by our hospitals. In addition, the number of freestanding specialty hospitals and surgery and diagnostic centers in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. As a result, most of our hospitals operate in an increasingly competitive environment. Some of the hospitals that compete with our hospitals are owned by governmental agencies or not-for-profit corporations supported by endowments and charitable contributions and can finance capital expenditures and operations on a tax-exempt basis. Increasingly, we are facing competition by physician-owned freestanding surgery centers that compete for market share in high margin services and for quality physicians and personnel. If our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their healthcare facilities, we may experience a decline in patient volume. Our hospitals face competition for staffing, which may increase our labor costs and reduce profitability. Our operations are dependent on the effort, abilities and experience of the management and medical support personnel, such as nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, as well as our physicians. We compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and medical support personnel responsible for the day-to-day operations of each of our hospitals. In the U.S. market, the availability of nurses and other medical 24 Table of Contents support personnel has become a significant operating issue to healthcare providers. This shortage may require us to continue to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or to hire more expensive temporary personnel. We also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate. If our labor costs increase, we may not be able to raise rates to offset these increased costs. Our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other medical support personnel, or to control our labor costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Market Risks Related to Our Stock A single stockholder controls a majority of our outstanding shares. Our chairman and chief executive officer, Mr. Chiu Chan, beneficially owns an aggregate of approximately 59% of our issued and outstanding common stock as of August 31, 2010. As a majority stockholder, he is able to control all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of any directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, he is in a position to control the management of our business and the appointment of executive officers as well as all management personnel. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control, or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Mr. Chiu Chan’s interests may conflict with those of other stockholders. In the event that he elects to sell significant amounts of shares of common stock in the future, such sales could depress the market price of our common stock, further increasing the volatility of our trading market. Our common stock has a limited trading market, which could affect your ability to sell shares of our common stock and the price you may receive for our common stock. Our common stock is currently quoted on the Nasdaq Global Markets. There is only limited trading activity in our securities. We have a relatively small public float compared to the number of our shares outstanding. Accordingly, we cannot predict the extent to which investors’ interest in our common stock will provide an active and liquid trading market. Due to our limited public float, we may be vulnerable to investors taking a “short position” in our common stock, which would likely have a depressing effect on the price of our common stock and add increased volatility to our trading market. Furthermore, we have been, and in the future may be subject to, class action lawsuits that further increase market volatility. The volatility of the market for our common stock could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Accordingly, investors must be able to bear the financial risk of losing their entire investment in our common stock. Future issuance of additional shares of our stock could cause dilution of ownership interests and adversely affect our stock price. In addition to approximately 85.8 million shares of common stock we have that are authorized to issue but are unissued, our board may issue up to 5 million shares of preferred stock which may have greater rights than our common stock, without seeking approval from holders of our common stock. In addition, we are obligated to issue an aggregate of approximately 1.3 million shares of common stock upon the exercise of options outstanding under our 2000 Incentive Plan. None of these options have an exercise price which is lower than the market price at August 31, 2010. The shares that could be issued upon exercise of the outstanding options represent approximately 9% of our currently outstanding shares of common stock. Additional shares are subject to options not yet granted under the plan, and we may grant additional options or warrants in the future to purchase shares of our common stock not under the plan. The exercise price of each option granted under our option plan is equal to the fair market value of the shares on the date of grant, although that price may be substantially less than the value per share on the date of exercise. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not expect to do so in the foreseeable future. It has been our policy to use all available funds from operations to improve and expand our current facilities and to acquire new facilities. For that reason, we have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and have no present intention to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. Therefore an investor in our common stock should not expect to obtain any economic benefit from owning our common stock prior to a sale of those shares, if then. 25 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 