Risk Factors. We have incurred significant losses on our insured products as a result of deterioration in national and regional economic conditions and we could incur significant additional losses in the future. As a seller of credit protection, our results are subject to macroeconomic conditions and specific events that impact the credit performance of our underlying insured assets. Many of these conditions are beyond our control, including national and regional economic recessions, home price depreciation, unemployment levels, interest rate changes and volatility, availability of credit, and other factors. The economic recession that began in the U.S. in 2007, characterized by a nation-wide decline in home prices, high unemployment, deteriorating credit performance of mortgage and other assets and reduced liquidity for many participants in the mortgage and financial services industries, has had and continues to have a negative impact on the operating environment and results of operations for each of our business segments. In particular, our results of operations and financial condition have been particularly affected by weak economic conditions, such as depreciating home values and high unemployment. We have experienced increased defaults and claims in our mortgage insurance business, primarily driven by the poor performance of our 2005 through 2008 insured books of business. Deterioration in general economic conditions, including elevated levels of unemployment and a broad decline in home prices, has increased the likelihood that borrowers will default on their mortgages. Falling home prices have increased the likelihood that borrowers will be unable to sell their homes, if necessary, in order to avoid default and that borrowers with the ability to make their mortgage payments may voluntarily default on their mortgages when their mortgage balances exceed the value of their homes. We also believe that some borrowers may voluntarily default to take advantage of certain loan modification programs currently being offered or that may be offered in the future, which may reduce their mortgage payments. Falling home prices make it more difficult for us to mitigate our loss when a default occurs. See “Our loss mitigation strategies are less effective in markets where housing values fail to appreciate or continue to decline.” At December 31, 2010, approximately 54.3% of our primary mortgage insurance risk in force was concentrated in 10 states, with the highest percentages being in California, Florida and Texas. A large percentage of our second-lien mortgage insurance risk in force also is concentrated in California and Texas. Continued weakness in many markets, particularly in Florida and California where non-prime mortgages and riskier mortgage products such as pay option ARMs and interest-only loans are prevalent and where home prices have fallen significantly, has resulted in significant losses in our mortgage insurance business. As mortgage credit performance in Florida and California has deteriorated, given the size of these markets, our loss experience has been significantly affected and will continue to be negatively affected if conditions do not improve or deteriorate further. In addition to California, Florida and Texas, approximately 12.6% of our primary mortgage insurance risk in force at December 31, 2010 was concentrated in the Midwestern states of Michigan, Illinois and Ohio. This region has continued to experience higher default rates, which we believe are largely attributable to the difficult operating environment in the domestic auto industry. Our financial guaranty portfolio continues to be negatively impacted by deterioration in the credit markets and the overall economy. See “Our financial guaranty portfolio has experienced deterioration as a result of general erosion in credit markets and the overall economy and is susceptible to further deterioration.” Our financial guaranty business also has a significant portion of its insurance risk in force concentrated in a small number of states, principally California, Texas, New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania, and could be materially and adversely affected by a continued and prolonged weakness of economic conditions in these states. The current economic uncertainty and continued weakness in the housing and related credit markets could persist. Although there have been some recent signs of stabilization of the U.S. economy, it is difficult to predict with any degree of certainty if and when a full recovery of the economy will occur, including a meaningful 68 Table of Contents reduction in unemployment and a broad and lasting recovery in the domestic housing market. As a result, there is a great deal of uncertainty regarding our ultimate loss performance, which we expect to depend primarily on the performance of our 2005 through 2008 vintage portfolios. Based on our current projections, we do not expect our mortgage insurance business to be profitable in 2011, and we can provide no assurance if, and when, we may return to profitability. The potential for prolonged difficult economic conditions, including rising or continued high unemployment rates and further deterioration in the housing market, may add further stress on the performance of our insured assets, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the impact of housing and credit market deterioration, our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted by natural disasters or other catastrophic events, acts of terrorism, war or other severe conflicts, event-specific economic depressions or other harmful events in the regions, including in foreign countries, where we do business. Our loss mitigation strategies are less effective in markets where housing values fail to appreciate or continue to decline. The amount of mortgage insurance loss we suffer depends in part on whether the home of a borrower who has defaulted on a mortgage can be sold for an amount that will cover some or all the unpaid principal and interest on the mortgage and the expenses of the sale. In the event of a claim under our standard mortgage insurance policy, we generally have the option of paying the entire loss amount and taking title to a mortgaged property or paying our coverage percentage in full satisfaction of our obligations under the policy. In the past, we were able to take title to a small percentage of properties underlying the defaulted loans and sell the properties quickly at prices that allowed us to recover some or all of our losses. In the current housing market, our ability to mitigate our losses in such a manner has been significantly reduced. Further, in certain cases, we may consent to a sale of the property by the borrower for less than the amount needed to cover the borrower’s mortgage obligation (a “short sale”), which has the effect of reducing our ultimate claim payment obligation. If housing values fail to stabilize or again begin to decline on a broad geographic basis or in the regions where our business is concentrated, the frequency of defaulted loans resulting in claims under our policies could increase and the ability to mitigate our losses on defaulted mortgages through permissible short sales or resale of properties we acquire may be significantly reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A large portion of our mortgage insurance risk in force consists of higher risk loans, such as high-LTV and non-prime loans, as well as pool mortgage insurance. High-LTV Mortgages. We provide mortgage insurance on residential mortgage loans made mostly to home buyers who make down payments of less than 20% of the home’s purchase price. As a result, we typically insure loans where borrowers have less equity at risk at origination than borrowers who make larger down payments; therefore, with respect to this loan characteristic, the loans we insure have a higher propensity to default relative to the total mortgage market. In addition, of the mortgage loans that we have insured, a significant portion of our mortgage insurance in force consists of insurance on mortgage loans with LTVs at origination of greater than 95%. At December 31, 2010, our mortgage insurance risk in force related to these loans represented 19.2% of our total primary insurance risk in force. We believe mortgage loans with LTVs greater than 95%, absent other mitigating factors such as high FICO scores, default substantially more often than those with lower LTVs. In addition, when we are required to pay a claim on a higher LTV loan, it is generally more difficult to recover our costs from the underlying property, especially in areas with declining property values. Beginning in 2008, we have altered our underwriting criteria to significantly limit the number of new loans we are insuring with LTVs greater than 95% and have adopted more stringent guidelines for loans with LTVs greater than 90%. While we believe these changes have improved the overall risk profile of our new business written, in the near term, it is likely that our results of operations and financial condition will continue to be negatively affected by the performance of our existing insured loans with high-LTVs, especially those loans originated in 2005 through the first half of 2008. 69 Table of Contents Non-Prime Loans. A large percentage of the mortgage insurance we wrote in years 2005 through 2007 and, consequently, our existing mortgage insurance risk in force, is related to non-prime loans. At December 31, 2010, our non-prime mortgage insurance risk in force, including Alt-A, was approximately 17.4% of our total primary insurance risk in force. Historically, non-prime loans are more likely to result in claims than prime loans. In addition, our non-prime business, in particular Alt-A loans, tends to have larger loan balances relative to other loans, which often results in larger claims. We have experienced a significant number of loan defaults related to Alt-A loans originated in 2005 through 2008. These losses have occurred more rapidly and well in excess of historical loss patterns, and have contributed in large part to the significant increase in our provision for losses. If defaults and claim rates on our insured portfolio of non-prime loans continue to increase, in particular in California, Florida and other states where the Alt-A product is prevalent, our results of operations and financial condition will continue to be negatively affected. Pool Mortgage Insurance. We offer pool mortgage insurance, which exposes us to an increased risk of greater loss severity on individual loans compared to primary mortgage insurance. Our pool mortgage insurance products generally cover all losses in a pool of loans up to our aggregate exposure limit, which generally is between 1% and 10% of the initial aggregate loan balance of the entire pool of loans. Under pool insurance, we could be required to pay the full claim amount of every loan in the pool within our aggregate exposure limits, rather than a percentage of the loan amount, as is the case with traditional primary mortgage insurance. At December 31, 2010, approximately 7.1% of our total mortgage insurance risk in force was attributable to pool insurance. The average size of our pool insurance claims has increased significantly to $71,683 for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to $38,437 for the year ended December 31, 2009. Under most of our pool insurance policies, the property underlying a defaulted loan must be sold before a claim may be submitted to us. Therefore, in a weak housing market as currently exists, we expect to pay higher pool insurance claims when homes are sold after a prolonged period of home price depreciation, in particular when homes remain unsold for extended periods of time as is currently the case in many markets. Further declines in housing values could result in further increases in the average claim size of our pool insured loans. If we continue to have increased pool insurance claims at higher severity levels, it could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. We insure adjustable rate loans that have resulted in significant losses and are expected to result in further losses. At December 31, 2010, approximately 13% of our primary mortgage insurance risk in force consisted of ARMs, which include loans with negative amortization features, such as pay option ARMs. Our claim frequency on ARMs has been higher than on fixed-rate loans due to monthly payment increases that occur when interest rates rise or when the “teaser rate” (an initial interest rate that does not fully reflect the index which determines subsequent rates) expires. We consider a loan to be an ARM if the interest rate for that loan will reset at any point during the life of the loan. However, it has been our experience that ARMs with resets within five years from origination are more likely to result in a claim than longer-term ARMs. ARMs with resets within five years from origination represented approximately 44% of our total primary ARM risk in force at December 31, 2010 (or 6% of our total primary risk in force). Approximately 6% of the ARMs that we insure are scheduled to have initial interest rate resets in 2011. At December 31, 2010, approximately 7.3% of our primary mortgage insurance risk in force consisted of interest-only mortgages (including approximately 3.5% of our primary mortgage insurance risk in force where the interest-only mortgages are ARMs), where the borrower pays only the interest on a mortgage for a specified period of time, usually five to ten years, after which the loan payment increases to include principal payments. We believe that, similar to ARMs, these loans have a heightened propensity to default because of possible “payment shocks” after the initial low payment period expires and because the borrower does not build equity as payments are made. Reduced liquidity in the mortgage market, tighter underwriting standards, and declining home prices in many regions in the U.S. have combined to make it more difficult for many borrowers with ARMs and interest- 70 Table of Contents only mortgages to refinance their mortgages into fixed-rate products. As a result, without available alternatives, many borrowers have defaulted when their interest rates reset to a higher rate or when principal becomes payable. This has resulted in significant losses for mortgage lenders and insurers, as well as investors in the secondary market. Although there can be no assurance, the historically low level of interest rates in the current mortgage market may help to reduce the size of interest payment increases (and in some cases eliminate any increase) for loans resetting in the near future, but these loans will remain more vulnerable to payments shocks if and when interest rates rise in the future. In addition, federal and private loan refinance and modification programs, intended to allow borrowers to refinance or modify their existing loan structures, may allow borrowers that would not otherwise qualify for a loan refinance or modification to convert to fixed-rate loans. In the long term, absent a change in the current lending environment or a positive mitigating effect from federal and private measures aimed at reducing defaults from adjustable rate resets, defaults related to these products may continue to increase. If this occurs, our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively affected, possibly significantly. Insurance rescissions and claim denials may not continue at the levels we have recently experienced and an increasing number of our lender customers are challenging our insurance rescissions and claim denials. In recent years, the amount of insurance we have rescinded due to fraud, misrepresentation, underwriting negligence or other violations of our insurance policies has increased significantly. Likewise, the number of claims that we have denied has also increased, primarily due to the inability of our servicing customers to provide the loan origination file or other servicing records that are necessary for our review and to perfect a claim. These rescissions and denials have materially mitigated our paid losses and resulted in a significant reduction in our loss reserves. Our estimate of future expected rescissions and denials on defaulted loans reduced our loss reserves as of December 31, 2010 by approximately $0.9 billion. In addition, during 2010 and 2009, we rescinded or denied approximately $800 million and $826 million, respectively, of first-lien claims submitted to us for payment (“submitted claims”), net of reinstatements, compared to approximately $166 million for 2008. Of the claims we rescinded or denied in 2010 and 2009, approximately $539 million and $398 million respectively, related to claims from policies for which we were in a first loss position and with respect to which we would have paid the claim absent the rescission or denial, while approximately $261 million and $428 million, respectively, related to claims where we were in a second loss position. With respect to claims where we were in a second loss position, while these claims may not have resulted in a claim payment obligation due to deductibles and other exposure limitations included in our policies, the rescissions and denials for these loans generally have had the effect of protecting the existing deductible or other exposure limitations in the transaction. The amounts referenced above also include a small amount of submitted claims that were subsequently withdrawn by the insured. A significant portion of our existing default inventory continues to consist of poorly underwritten loans primarily originated during 2005 through 2008. While we expect a high level of rescissions and denials to result from these defaulted loans, we do not expect that rescissions and denials will continue to mitigate paid losses at the same levels we have recently experienced. We can provide no assurance that rescissions and denials will continue to persist at the elevated levels we have projected, or will continue to materially mitigate paid losses. Under our Master Policy, any suit or action arising from any right of the insured under the policy must be commenced within two years after such right arose and within three years for certain other policies, including certain pool insurance policies. Recently, we have faced an increasing number of challenges from certain lender customers regarding our insurance rescissions and claim denials, which have led us to reverse a number of our prior decisions regarding rescissions and denials. As of December 31, 2010, there were approximately $204.0 million and $190.9 million in first-lien claims previously rescinded during 2010 and 2009, respectively, that have been challenged by our customers, but not overturned by us. We are currently in active discussions with customers regarding a small portion of these rescissions. These discussions, if not resolved, could result in arbitration or judicial proceedings, which could be brought with respect to all rescissions and denials that have 71 Table of Contents been challenged by such customers. We may be unsuccessful in such proceedings, which may be costly and time consuming. The heightened risk of disputes with our customers regarding our increased rescissions and denials could lead to the loss of one or more customers or motivate such customers to seek a greater percentage of insurance through the FHA, which historically has not engaged in significant rescission and denial activity, or other competitors. The determination of our reserve for losses involves significant use of estimates with regard to the likelihood, magnitude and timing of a loss, including an estimate of the number of defaulted loans that will be successfully rescinded or denied. If the actual amount of rescissions and denials is significantly lower than our estimate, as a result of a greater than anticipated number of successful challenges to our rescissions and denials, litigation, settlements or other factors, or if the levels of rescission and denials decrease faster than projected, our losses may materially increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For additional information regarding the determination of a reserve for losses, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies—Reserve for Losses.” Losses in our mortgage insurance business have reduced Radian Guaranty’s statutory surplus and increased Radian Guaranty’s risk-to-capital ratio; additional losses in our mortgage insurance portfolio or financial guaranty portfolio without a corresponding increase in new capital or capital relief could further negatively impact these ratios, which could limit Radian Guaranty’s ability to write new insurance and could increase restrictions and requirements placed on Radian Guaranty. The GSEs, rating agencies and state insurance regulators impose various capital requirements as well as capital and risk-based measurements on our insurance subsidiaries. These include risk-to-capital ratios, risk-based capital measures and surplus requirements that limit the amount of insurance that each of our insurance subsidiaries may write. Sixteen states currently have a statutory or regulatory requirement that a mortgage insurer’s risk-to-capital ratio may not exceed 25 to 1. As a result of the significant losses we experienced in our mortgage insurance business during the last four years and despite significant capital contributions to the business, Radian Guaranty’s risk-to-capital ratio increased from 8.1 to 1 at December 31, 2006 to 16.8 to 1 at December 31, 2010. Based on current and expected future trends, we believe that we will continue to incur operating losses in our mortgage insurance business. The ultimate amount of losses will depend in part on general economic conditions and other factors, including the health of credit markets, home prices and unemployment rates, all of which are difficult to predict and beyond our control. Radian Guaranty’s risk-to-capital ratio is expected to continue to increase in the near term and, notwithstanding any future contributions from existing capital sources, could reach 25 to 1 if losses are significantly worse than our current expectations. We, along with others in our industry, are seeking regulatory changes or relief in those states that impose a 25 to 1 risk-to-capital requirement, primarily through new legislation or other means by which the insurance regulator in these states is granted discretionary authority to waive the 25 to 1 risk-to-capital requirement. Although these efforts have been successful in many states, it is uncertain whether regulatory changes or relief will be obtained in the remaining states in sufficient time, if at all, to provide relief from the 25 to 1 limitation in these states. Further, in those states that currently allow for discretionary authority, there can be no assurance (i) that the regulators in these states will exercise their discretion to permit us to write new business in the event that we exceed the 25 to 1 limitation, (ii) of how long such regulators may allow any waiver of this requirement to exist or (iii) of what, if any, other requirements they may impose as a condition to such waivers. Moreover, in those states that do not have a capital adequacy requirement in the form of a 25 to 1 limitation, it is not clear what actions the applicable state regulators would take if we failed to meet the capital adequacy requirement established by another state. Accordingly, if we fail to meet the capital adequacy requirements in one or more states, Radian Guaranty could be required to suspend writing business in some or all of the states in which we do business. 72 Table of Contents We have actively managed Radian Guaranty’s risk-to-capital ratio in various ways, including through reinsurance arrangements with our subsidiaries and by providing additional capital support to our mortgage insurance operations, as required. We cannot provide any assurance as to whether we will be successful in continuing to manage Radian Guaranty’s risk-to-capital ratio. Further, our existing inter-company reinsurance arrangements are conducted through affiliated insurance subsidiaries, and therefore, remain subject to regulation by state insurance regulators who could decide to limit, or require the termination of, such arrangements. Fannie Mae’s proposed amendments to its mortgage insurance eligibility guidelines, if implemented without revision or a waiver for existing arrangements, would prohibit the use of certain of our inter-company reinsurance arrangements, and therefore, Fannie Mae could request that we terminate such arrangements, potentially resulting in a higher risk-to-capital ratio for Radian Guaranty, or impose severe restrictions on us. If we are limited in, or prohibited from using inter-company reinsurance arrangements to manage Radian Guaranty’s risk-to-capital level, there would be an increased likelihood that Radian Guaranty’s risk-to-capital ratio would exceed 25 to 1. We are also preparing, if necessary, to write new first-lien mortgage insurance business through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Amerin Guaranty, in those states that continue to impose a 25 to 1 risk-to-capital requirement. We have received preliminary approval from the Pennsylvania Department of Insurance to use Amerin Guaranty as a first-lien mortgage insurance provider. However, before Amerin Guaranty may write first-lien mortgage insurance, we will need to add sufficient capital to Amerin Guaranty either from internal resources or from new capital and also will need to seek and obtain necessary regulatory or other approvals, including from the GSEs. In addition, preparing Amerin Guaranty to write first-lien business would require significant changes to our operating systems, which could be expensive and time consuming and may not be completed in time to avoid an interruption in our ability to write business. Amerin Guaranty is currently prohibited from writing new insurance business in six states without the addition of new capital. We cannot provide any assurance as to whether we will be successful in sufficiently capitalizing Amerin Guaranty or whether we will obtain the necessary approvals for implementing this alternative. If Radian Guaranty’s risk-to-capital ratio were to exceed 25 to 1, certain state insurance regulators might limit the amount of new insurance business that Radian Guaranty may write or prohibit Radian Guaranty from writing new insurance altogether in their respective states, including those states that do not currently impose a 25 to 1 limitation. In addition, the GSEs and our other customers could decide not to conduct new business with Radian Guaranty (or reduce current business levels) or, in the case of the GSEs, to impose substantial restrictions on Radian Guaranty while its risk-to-capital ratio remained at elevated levels. This could ultimately result in a loss of Radian Guaranty’s eligibility with the GSEs. The franchise value of our mortgage insurance business would likely be significantly diminished if Radian Guaranty was prohibited from writing new business or restricted in the amount of new business it could write, especially in the event we are unable to execute on a timely basis our strategy for writing new first-lien mortgage insurance through Amerin Guaranty. In addition, any restriction on Radian Guaranty’s ability to continue to write new insurance would likely harm our ability to attract new capital. We and our insurance subsidiaries are subject to comprehensive, detailed regulation, principally designed for the protection of our insured policyholders rather than for the benefit of investors, by the insurance departments in the various states where our insurance subsidiaries are licensed to transact business. Insurance laws vary from state to state, but generally grant broad supervisory powers to state agencies or officials to examine insurance companies and enforce rules or exercise discretion affecting almost every significant aspect of the insurance business, including the power to revoke or restrict an insurance company’s ability to write new business. Given the significant losses incurred by many insurers in the mortgage and financial guaranty industries, our insurance subsidiaries have been subject to heightened scrutiny by insurance regulators. Additionally, the HKIA has directed Radian Insurance to continue to maintain sufficient assets in Hong Kong to cover its potential liabilities on insured loans in Hong Kong. In light of current market conditions and ongoing losses in our insurance subsidiaries, insurance departments could impose restrictions or requirements on our insurance subsidiaries that could have a material adverse impact on our businesses. 73 Table of Contents The long-term capital adequacy of Radian Guaranty depends, in part, upon the performance of our financial guaranty portfolio. During the third quarter of 2008, Radian Group contributed its ownership interest in Radian Asset Assurance to Radian Guaranty. While this reorganization has provided Radian Guaranty with substantial regulatory capital and dividends, it also makes the capital adequacy of our mortgage insurance business dependent, to a significant degree, on the performance of our financial guaranty business. If the performance of our financial guaranty portfolio deteriorates materially, including if we are required to establish one or more significant statutory reserves as a result of defaults on our insured obligations, or if we make net commutation payments to terminate insured obligations in excess of the then posted statutory reserves for such obligations, the regulatory capital of Radian Guaranty also would be negatively impacted. Any decrease in the capital support derived from our financial guaranty business could, therefore, increase the risk-to-capital ratio of Radian Guaranty and negatively impact the franchise value of our mortgage insurance business, which could lead to our inability to continue to write new mortgage insurance business. See “Our financial guaranty portfolio has experienced deterioration as a result of general erosion in credit markets and the overall economy and is susceptible to further deterioration” and “We face risks associated with our financial guaranty insurance customers and our second-to-pay liabilities from these entities.” In addition to the amount of statutory capital support provided to our mortgage insurance business, the performance of our financial guaranty business also affects whether Radian Asset Assurance can pay dividends to Radian Guaranty as it has in past years, and the amount of any such dividends. As of December 31, 2010, Radian Asset Assurance maintained a statutory surplus of approximately $1.0 billion and total claims paying resources of approximately $2.4 billion. Radian Asset Assurance paid a $99.7 million dividend to Radian Guaranty in 2009 and another $69.2 million dividend to Radian Guaranty in 2010. We expect Radian Asset Assurance to continue to pay significant dividends to Radian Guaranty in the near and long term, including a $60 million dividend we currently expect to be paid in 2011, as our existing financial guaranty portfolio matures and the exposure is reduced. The timing and amount of these dividend payments will depend on the dividend capacity of our financial guaranty business, which is governed by New York insurance laws. If the performance of our financial guaranty portfolio deteriorates materially, or the amount we pay to terminate any particular financial guaranty exposure is larger than the amount of the reserves for such exposure, then Radian Asset Assurance’s statutory surplus may be reduced. As a result, Radian Asset Assurance would likely have less capacity to pay dividends to Radian Guaranty, and could be prohibited from paying dividends altogether. Our financial guaranty portfolio has experienced deterioration as a result of general erosion in credit markets and the overall economy and is susceptible to further deterioration. As discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview of Business Results—Financial Guaranty—Credit Performance,” we have experienced credit deterioration in our financial guaranty portfolio, including within our insured portfolio of TruPs CDOs and CMBS CDOs, as a result of the general deterioration in credit markets and the overall economy. For our CDO of ABS transaction with $453.6 million in net par outstanding as of December 31, 2010, we currently expect to begin paying claims in respect of shortfalls of interest payments in 2012, or potentially sooner, if the deterioration is worse than projected. Upon our initial claim payment obligation, the statutory capital of Radian Asset Assurance (and consequently Radian Guaranty) would be reduced by an amount equal to the present value of our expected future net losses (net of any applicable taxes on this transaction). See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Guaranty—Financial Guaranty Exposure Information” for additional information regarding this CDO of ABS transaction. While we have sought to underwrite our insured credits with levels of subordination or other credit enhancement designed to protect us from loss even in the event of poor performance of the underlying collateral, we cannot be certain that such levels of subordination will protect us from future material losses in light of the significantly higher rates of delinquency and losses currently being observed within our insured credits. 74 Table of Contents We have guaranteed structured finance obligations that expose us to a variety of complex credit risks, and indirectly, to market, political and other risks beyond those that generally apply to financial guarantees of public finance obligations. We have insured and reinsured certain asset-backed transactions and securitizations secured by one or a few classes of assets, such as residential mortgages, auto loans and leases and other consumer assets, both funded and synthetic. We have also insured obligations under CDS, including CDOs of several asset classes, such as corporate debt, TruPs, RMBS, CMBS and other ABS obligations. We continue to have exposure to trade credit reinsurance, which protects sellers of goods under certain circumstances against nonpayment of their accounts receivable. Losses associated with our structured finance and trade credit reinsurance businesses are difficult to predict accurately and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results, especially given the recent economic disruptions. In addition to our structured finance risk, we have significant exposure to public finance obligations that are more susceptible to default in an economic downturn. Historically, our financial guaranty public finance business has focused on smaller, regional, lower investment-grade issuers and structures that were uneconomical for other financial guarantors to insure. As a result, compared to other monoline financial guarantors, a greater percentage of our total exposure is with respect to sectors such as healthcare, long-term care and education. These sectors have, historically and in 2010, had higher default rates than other public finance sectors. These credits, which generally cover smaller, more rural and specialized issuers, tend to be lower rated and more susceptible to default in an economic downturn. Our public finance portfolio continues to experience stress from the general economic downturn of the past few years and the continuing uncertainty regarding future economic conditions, with the greatest level of stress continuing in the healthcare and long-term care sectors. Although we have seen some stabilization and modest improvement in the performance of some healthcare credits in the portfolio, the outlook for credit performance for the healthcare sector remains challenging, particularly due to uncertainty regarding the future of healthcare reform and state and federal funding for healthcare expenditures. We may also experience future credit deterioration and more municipal defaults in our government-related insured credits, as the difficulties experienced by government entities to maintain balanced budgets and adequate liquidity to meet near-term financial obligations continues to put some municipalities and their public authorities under stress. We face risks associated with our financial guaranty insurance customers and our second-to-pay liabilities from these entities. As a result of rating agency downgrades of our financial guaranty insurance subsidiaries’ financial strength ratings, our unaffiliated primary customers in our financial guaranty reinsurance business currently have the right to take back or recapture an aggregate of $23.6 billion of business previously ceded to us under their reinsurance agreements with us. While our treaties with our primary reinsurance customers do not permit our customers to selectively recapture business previously ceded to us under their treaties, because we have entered into multiple treaties with each customer, it is possible that a customer may choose to recapture business only under those treaties that it perceives as covering less risky portions of our reinsurance portfolio. This selective recapture, if it occurs, could potentially leave us with risk that is more concentrated in troubled asset classes or exposures. Our ceding customers are primarily responsible for surveillance, loss mitigation and salvage on the risks that they cede to us. Some of these customers are experiencing financial difficulties, and therefore, may be less willing to perform or less capable of performing, these tasks to the extent necessary to minimize potential losses and/or maximize potential salvage on the credits we reinsure. Due to their current financial difficulties, these customers may have different incentives to eliminate long-term liabilities than we do. We generally do not have direct access to the insured obligation or the right to perform our own loss mitigation or salvage work on these transactions. We also have limited visibility with respect to the performance of many of the obligations we reinsure. See “If the estimates we use in establishing loss reserves for our mortgage insurance or financial guaranty businesses are incorrect, we may be required to take unexpected charges to income, which could hurt our capital position.” 75 Table of Contents Our primary ceding customers may delegate their loss adjustment functions to third parties, the cost of which would then be proportionally allocated to us and any other reinsurers for the insured transaction. Accordingly, the losses and loss adjustment expenses allocated to us on our reinsured risks may be higher than otherwise would have been the case if we were responsible for surveillance, loss mitigation and salvage for these risks. In addition, should a primary insurer become insolvent, there is a risk that the recoveries that they receive in any given transaction may become a part of its general estate rather than being allocated among the reinsurers paying the related claim. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Approximately $22.1 billion or 93.2% of Radian Asset Assurance’s net par reinsurance exposure outstanding as of December 31, 2010, was ceded from primary insurer customers that are subsidiaries of Assured Guaranty Ltd. Consequently, such financial guaranty reinsurance is now dependent upon the surveillance and loss mitigation abilities of primary insurers that are subsidiaries of this one holding company. Because of this concentration of business, if Assured Guaranty Ltd. experienced any of the financial difficulties described above, the impact on us may be material. We have insured certain transactions on a second-to-pay basis, meaning that we are obligated to pay claims in these transactions only to the extent that both the underlying obligation defaults and another insurer, who is the primary obligor for claims, fails to pay a valid claim. Consequently, if the conservator for an insolvent financial guarantor rejects payment of all or a portion of a valid claim, we may be required to pay all or a portion of such valid claim. Because many insurers are currently experiencing significant financial difficulties, the likelihood of our having to pay a claim on our second-to-pay transactions, due to another insurer’s failure to pay, has increased. As of December 31, 2010, Syncora, FGIC and Ambac are the primary insurers on $1.2 billion net par outstanding (or 42.0%) of our second-to-pay exposure, and $301.0 million (or 26.0%) of such exposure to those three primary insurers is internally rated below investment grade. In 2009, Syncora and FGIC suspended all claims payments following orders by the NYID. While the NYID lifted the suspension of payments by Syncora in June 2010, Syncora has subsequently posted additional losses and the NYID may therefore implement the suspension again in the future. Because most of the mortgage loans that we insure are sold to Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, changes in their charters or business practices could significantly impact our mortgage insurance business. Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae are the beneficiaries of the majority of our mortgage insurance policies. Freddie Mac’s and Fannie Mae’s federal charters generally prohibit them from purchasing any mortgage with a loan amount that exceeds 80% of a home’s value, unless that mortgage is insured by a qualified insurer or the mortgage seller retains at least a 10% participation in the loan or agrees to repurchase the loan in the event of a default. As a result, high-LTV mortgages purchased by Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae generally are insured with private mortgage insurance. Changes in the charters or business practices of Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae could reduce the number of mortgages they purchase that are insured by us and consequently diminish our franchise value. In particular, Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae have the ability to: • implement new eligibility requirements for mortgage insurers and alter or liberalize underwriting standards on low-down-payment mortgages they purchase (see “We could lose our eligibility status with the GSEs, causing Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae to decide not to purchase mortgages insured by us, which would significantly impair our mortgage insurance franchise”); • alter the terms on which mortgage insurance coverage may be canceled before reaching the cancellation thresholds established by law; • require private mortgage insurers to perform activities intended to avoid or mitigate loss on insured mortgages that are in default; • establish the amount of loan level delivery fees (which result in higher cost to borrowers) that the GSEs charge on loans that require mortgage insurance (see “Our mortgage insurance business faces intense competition”); and • influence a mortgage lender’s selection of the mortgage insurer providing coverage. 76 Table of Contents Some of Freddie Mac’s and Fannie Mae’s more recent programs require less insurance coverage than they historically have required, and they have the ability to further reduce coverage requirements, which could reduce the amount of mortgage insurance purchased and have an adverse effect on our business and revenues. For a number of years, the GSEs have had programs under which lenders could choose, for certain loans, a mortgage insurance coverage percentage that was only the minimum required by the GSE’s charter, with the GSEs paying a lower price for these loans (“charter coverage”). The GSEs have also had programs under which, for certain loans, they would accept a level of mortgage insurance above the requirements of their charters, but below their standard coverage, without any decrease in the purchase price they would pay for these loans (“reduced coverage”). Effective January 1, 2010, Fannie Mae broadly expanded the types of loans eligible for charter coverage and, in the second quarter of 2010, it eliminated its reduced coverage program. To the extent lenders selling loans to Fannie Mae choose charter coverage for loans that we insure, our revenues would likely be reduced. The GSEs’ business practices may be impacted by their results of operations as well as legislative or regulatory changes governing their operations. In July 2008, an overhaul of regulatory oversight of the GSEs was enacted. The new provisions, contained within the HERA, encompass substantially all of the GSEs’ operations. This new law abolished the former regulator for the GSEs and created a new regulator, the FHFA, in addition to other oversight reforms. In September 2008, the FHFA was appointed as the conservator of the GSEs to control and direct the operations of the GSEs. The continued role of the conservator may increase the likelihood that the business practices of the GSEs will be changed in ways that may have a material adverse effect on us. In particular, if the private mortgage insurance industry does not have the ability, due to capital constraints, to continue to write sufficient business to meet the needs of the GSEs, the GSEs may seek alternatives other than private mortgage insurance to conduct their business. In February 2011, the Obama Administration (the “Administration”) delivered a report to the U.S. Congress for reforming the U.S. housing finance market. See “Business—Regulation—Federal Regulation—Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae.” As part of this report, the Administration recommended the winding down of the GSEs over a period of time, including by increasing pricing at the GSEs, reducing the size of loans that the GSEs may purchase, requiring borrowers to provide a 10% down payment for GSE loans, and decreasing the GSEs investment portfolios by at least 10% each year. In addition, the report encouraged the GSEs to pursue “additional credit-loss protection from private insurers and other capital providers” in order to increase the level of private capital in the housing finance system. These recommendations, which require legislative action in order to implement, are likely to be the subject of significant Congressional focus and debate in the near future. As a result, it is uncertain what form any legislation will take and to what extent the legislation will adhere to the recommendations set forth in the Administration’s report. Therefore, the future structure of the residential housing finance system remains uncertain, including the impact of any such changes on our business. Although we believe that private mortgage insurance will continue to play an important role in any future housing finance structure, there is a possibility that new federal legislation could reduce the level of private mortgage insurance coverage used by the GSEs as credit enhancement or perhaps even eliminate the requirement altogether, which may reduce our available market and could adversely affect our mortgage insurance business. We could lose our eligibility status with the GSEs, causing Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae to decide not to purchase mortgages insured by us, which would significantly impair our mortgage insurance franchise. In order to maintain the highest level of eligibility with Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, mortgage insurers have historically been required to maintain an insurer financial strength rating of AA- or Aa3 from at least two of the three ratings agencies by which they are customarily rated. If a mortgage insurer were to lose such eligibility, Freddie Mac and/or Fannie Mae could restrict the mortgage insurer from conducting certain types of business with them, or take actions that may include not purchasing loans insured by such mortgage insurer. In light of the housing market downturn, both Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae have indicated that loss of mortgage insurer 77 Table of Contents eligibility due to such a downgrade will no longer be automatic and will be subject to review if and when the downgrade occurs. We are aware of at least one private mortgage insurance company that has lost its eligibility with Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. Our mortgage insurance subsidiaries have been downgraded substantially below AA-/Aa3 by S&P and Moody’s. In response to these ratings actions, we have presented business and financial remediation plans to Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae for how to restore profitability and ultimately regain a higher rating for our mortgage insurance business. If the GSEs believe that our plans will not provide the capital required by our mortgage insurance business, we could lose our eligibility with the GSEs. The GSE eligibility requirements are subject to change from time to time, and the GSEs have proposed modifying their eligibility requirements. We do not know whether or when such modifications may be implemented, or the form that any such modifications may take; however, certain modifications proposed by Fannie Mae could significantly increase the likelihood that private mortgage insurers, including Radian Guaranty, would remain under remediation with Fannie Mae, and therefore, subject to potential limitations and conditions that could significantly restrict on-going operations. In addition, Fannie Mae’s proposed guidelines would eliminate the ability to use certain reinsurance arrangements with affiliates, which we currently use to mitigate risk and manage risk-to-capital levels, and would establish parameters requiring GSE approval before mortgage insurers may enter into settlement agreements with lenders regarding rescission practices. It is currently unclear whether Fannie Mae plans to proceed with the guidelines as proposed or whether Fannie Mae will engage in further dialogue with the private mortgage insurers regarding the proposed guidelines. Further, the Administration’s recent report regarding housing finance reform, which recommends a winding down of the GSEs over a period of time, could further impact the form and timing of the proposed eligibility guidelines. We cannot be certain whether, or for how long, either of the GSEs will continue to accept our existing remediation plans or if we will be able to retain our eligibility status with either of them under their existing guidelines or any future changes to these guidelines. Loss of our eligibility status with the GSEs would likely have an immediate and material adverse impact on the franchise value of our mortgage insurance business and our future prospects and would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. A decrease in the volume of home mortgage originations could result in fewer opportunities for us to write new insurance business. Our ability to write new business depends, among other things, on a steady flow of high-LTV mortgages that require our mortgage insurance. The deterioration in the credit performance of non-prime and other forms of non-conforming loans has caused lenders to substantially reduce the availability of these loans, and to significantly tighten their underwriting standards. Fewer loan products and tighter loan qualifications, while improving the overall quality of new mortgage originations, have in turn reduced the number of qualified homebuyers and made it more difficult for buyers (in particular first-time buyers) to obtain mortgage financing or to refinance their existing mortgages. In addition, the significant disruption in the housing and related credit markets has led to reduced investor demand for mortgage loans and MBS in the secondary market, which historically has been an available source of funding for many mortgage lenders. This has significantly reduced liquidity in the mortgage funding marketplace, forcing many lenders to retain a larger portion of their mortgage loans and MBS and leaving them with less capacity to continue to originate new mortgages. During 2010, total domestic mortgage originations were approximately $1.5 trillion compared to approximately $2.0 trillion during 2009 and approximately $2.7 trillion in 2006 (pre-dating the housing downturn). If the volume of new mortgage originations continues to decrease or persists at low levels for a prolonged period, we may experience fewer opportunities to write new insurance business and we may be subject to increased competition with respect to these opportunities, which could reduce the size of our mortgage insurance business and have a significant negative effect on both our ability to execute our business plans and our overall franchise value. See “Our mortgage insurance business faces intense competition.” Further, the Dodd Frank Act’s reforms to strengthen lending standards, improve underwriting standards and increase accountability in the loan securitization process could further reduce the total number of mortgage originations in the future, in particular with respect to the high-LTV market. 78 Table of Contents Because our mortgage insurance business is concentrated among a few significant customers, our new insurance written and franchise value could decline if we lose a significant customer. Our mortgage insurance business depends to a significant degree on a small number of lending customers. As of December 31, 2010, our top 10 mortgage insurance customers were generally responsible for over half of our primary new insurance written in 2010 and two mortgage insurance customers each accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues. Accordingly, maintaining our business relationships and business volumes with our largest lending customers is important to the success of our business. In response to the general deterioration in housing markets, we have tightened our underwriting guidelines, which has resulted in our declining to insure some of the loans originated by our larger customers. We have also increased our pricing to reflect the increased risk of default in the current economic and housing downturns. Our increased pricing, tighter guidelines and increased level of rescissions and denials, has negatively affected our relationships with certain of our customers, and could result in customers choosing to limit the amount of business they conduct with us or cease to do business with us entirely. See “Insurance rescissions and claim denials may not continue at the levels we have recently experienced and an increasing number of our lender customers are challenging our insurance rescissions and claim denials.” Our master policies and related lender agreements do not, and by law cannot, require our mortgage insurance customers to do business with us, and we cannot be certain that any loss of business from a single lender would be replaced from other new or existing lending customers in the industry. In addition, as a result of current market conditions, our lending customers may decide to write business only with certain mortgage insurers based on their views with respect to an insurer’s pricing, underwriting guidelines, loss mitigation practices, financial strength or other factors. In addition, our lending customers could seek to diversify their exposure to any one or more mortgage insurers. Certain of our mortgage insurance competitors are affiliates of much larger companies with significantly larger consolidated capital positions than we have, which could make it more likely that customers may choose to do business with them. See “Our mortgage insurance business faces intense competition.” Under the terms of our master policies, our customers or the parties they designate to service the loans we insure have the unilateral right to cancel our insurance coverage at any time for any loan that we insure. Upon cancellation of coverage, subject to the type of coverage, we may be required to refund to the insured lender unearned premiums, if any. In the past, a deteriorating economy and challenging market conditions have adversely affected the financial condition of a number of our largest lending customers. If the U.S. economy fails to recover or re-enters a recessionary period, these customers could again become subject to serious financial constraints that may jeopardize the viability of their business plans or their access to additional capital, forcing them to consider alternatives such as bankruptcy or consolidation with others in the industry. The loss of business from even one of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on the amount of new business we are able to write, and consequently, our franchise value. Our mortgage insurance business faces intense competition. The U.S. mortgage insurance industry is highly dynamic and intensely competitive. Our competitors include other private mortgage insurers and federal and state governmental and quasi-governmental agencies, principally the FHA, which has significantly increased its competitive position in the mortgage insurance market in recent years. Governmental and quasi-governmental entities typically do not have the same capital requirements that we and other private mortgage insurance companies have, and therefore, have greater financial flexibility in their pricing guidelines and capacity that could put us at a competitive disadvantage. In the event that a government-owned or government-sponsored entity in one of our markets decides to reduce prices 79 Table of Contents significantly or alter the terms and conditions of its mortgage insurance or other credit enhancement products in furtherance of political, social or other goals rather than a profit motive, we may be unable to compete in that market effectively, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Beginning in 2008, the FHA substantially increased its share of the mortgage insurance market, including by insuring a number of loans that would meet our current underwriting guidelines, sometimes at a lower monthly cost to the borrower than a loan that carries our mortgage insurance. For information regarding certain legislative developments affecting the FHA’s competitive position, see Business—Regulation—Federal Regulations—Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. The FHA may continue to maintain a strong market position and could even increase its market position to the point that private mortgage insurers may be perceived as less significant to the future of the housing finance market. Factors that could cause the FHA to maintain or increase its share of the mortgage insurance market include: • past and potential future capital constraints of the private mortgage insurance industry; • the tightening by private mortgage insurers of underwriting guidelines based on past loan performance or other risk concerns; • the increased levels of rescissions and denials by private mortgage insurers on older vintage portfolios; • the imposition of loan level delivery fees by the GSEs on loans that require mortgage insurance; • the perceived operational ease of using FHA insurance compared to the products of private mortgage insurers; and • the implementation of new regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act that may be more favorable to the FHA compared to private mortgage insurers (see “The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act may have a material effect on our mortgage insurance and financial guaranty businesses”). One or more private mortgage insurers may seek to regain market share from the FHA or other mortgage insurers by reducing pricing (as recently occurred with at least one private mortgage insurer), loosening their underwriting guidelines, or relaxing their loss mitigation practices, which could, in turn, improve their competitive position in the industry and reduce the level of our new insurance written. On October 4, 2010, the FHA simultaneously reduced its upfront mortgage insurance premium and increased its annual premium, and another annual premium increase is expected to occur in April 2011. We believe these premium changes may allow us to be more competitive with the FHA than in the recent past, although any one or more of the other factors cited above could limit the potential positive impact from these pricing changes. In addition, the Administration’s report on housing finance reform recommends reducing the FHA’s presence in the insured mortgage market to more traditional levels, including through further price increases and a reduction in the size of loans that may be insured by FHA. The improvement in the credit quality of new loans being insured in the current market, combined with the deterioration of the financial strength ratings of most existing private mortgage insurance companies, in part due to their legacy books of insured mortgages, could encourage new entrants to our industry. We are aware of one new entrant that started writing business in July 2010, and it appears this entrant has significant capital. Our inability to compete with other providers, including new entrants that are not burdened by legacy credit risks or otherwise rescinding or denying a significant number of loans, could have a material adverse effect on our business position, financial condition and operating results. 80 Table of Contents In addition, in the past, an increasing number of alternatives to traditional private mortgage insurance developed, many of which reduced the demand for our mortgage insurance. These alternatives included: • mortgage lenders structuring mortgage originations to avoid private mortgage insurance, mostly through “80-10-10 loans” or other forms of simultaneous second loans. The use of simultaneous second loans increased significantly in the period prior to the recent market downturn to become a competitive alternative to private mortgage insurance, particularly in light of (i) the potential lower monthly cost of simultaneous second loans compared to the cost of mortgage insurance in a low interest-rate environment and (ii) possible negative borrower, broker and realtor perceptions about mortgage insurance; • investors using other forms of credit enhancement such as CDS or securitizations as a partial or complete substitute for private mortgage insurance; and • mortgage lenders and other intermediaries foregoing third-party insurance coverage and retaining the full risk of loss on their high-LTV loans. As a result of the recent disruptions in the housing credit market, however, many of these alternatives to private mortgage insurance are not currently available, although simultaneous second loans are still available and their use may grow again. If market conditions were to change, however, we again could face significant competition from these alternatives as well as others that may develop. Our business depends, in part, on effective and reliable loan servicing, which could continue to be negatively impacted by the current disruption in the housing and mortgage credit markets. We depend on reliable, consistent third-party servicing of the loans that we insure. Dependable servicing generally ensures timely billing and effective loss mitigation opportunities for delinquent or near-delinquent loans. Many of our customers also service the loans that we insure, whether the loans were originated by such customer or another lender. Therefore, the same market conditions affecting our customers as discussed above in “Because our mortgage insurance business is concentrated among a few significant customers, our new insurance written and franchise value could decline if we lose any significant customer” also affect their ability to effectively maintain their servicing operations. In addition, current housing trends have led to a significant increase in the number of delinquent mortgage loans. These increases have strained the resources of servicers, reducing their ability to undertake loss mitigation efforts in a timely manner, including the processing of potential loan modifications, such as through the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s HAMP, which could help limit our losses. Recent investigations into whether servicers have acted improperly in foreclosure proceedings and judicial investigations of foreclosures may further strain the resources of servicers, and could result in financial penalties or conditions on the operation of servicers. Managing a substantially higher volume of under-performing loans could create operational difficulties that our servicers may not have the resources to overcome or respond to effectively. If a disruption occurs in the servicing of mortgage loans covered by our insurance policies, this, in turn, could contribute to a rise in delinquencies and/or claims among those loans and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Loan modification and other similar programs may not provide us with a material benefit. The FDIC, the GSEs and various lenders have adopted programs to modify loans to make them more affordable to borrowers with the goal of reducing the number of foreclosures. In February 2009, the U.S. Department of the Treasury announced HASP, of which HAMP is a part, which provides certain guidelines for loan modifications and allocates $75 billion for this purpose. Some of the eligibility criteria require information about borrowers, such as the borrowers’ current income and non-mortgage 81 Table of Contents debt obligations. Because the GSEs and the lenders do not share such eligibility information with us, we cannot determine with certainty the number of loans in our default inventory that are eligible to participate in such programs. Since the beginning of HAMP and through December 31, 2010, we believe that approximately 46,857 of defaulted loans in our insured portfolio have at some point entered a “trial modification” period under HAMP and that approximately 20,478 of these loans have cured after entering HAMP. While modifications continue to be made under these programs, it is unclear whether they will ultimately result in a significant number of successful loan modifications, in particular in light of the high level of re-default rates for loans that have been modified through these programs. In addition, we believe, that we have already realized the majority of the benefits available to us from HAMP. The number of loans insured by us that we are aware are entering HAMP trial modification periods has decreased. We believe that most of the loans currently in a trial period will not receive HAMP modifications, and we expect that some of the loans that have been modified by HAMP will re-default. In March 2010, the U.S. Department of the Treasury announced a further initiative under HAMP to encourage servicers to reduce the principal balance of defaulted loans. We do not expect the program to result in a material increase in the number of our delinquent loans modified under HAMP. In addition, the U.S. Department of the Treasury is supporting legislative changes to allow judicial modifications (including principal reductions) for home mortgages during bankruptcy proceedings. If a mortgage balance is reduced as a result of the new HAMP or other program or bankruptcy, we would still be responsible under our master insurance policy to pay the original balance if the borrower re-defaulted on that mortgage after its balance has been reduced. Some mortgage lenders and other agencies have implemented private modification programs with a similar goal to HAMP. While we do not have complete information regarding which of our insured loans may be entering these programs, we believe that a material number of our defaulted insured loans may be subject to private modification programs. It is uncertain how many of these loans may be successfully modified and, if modified, how many will remain current following such modification. There can be no assurance that these loan modification programs will continue to be available. Even if a loan is modified, we do not know how many modified loans will subsequently re-default or whether they may eventually result in losses that would be greater than we would have suffered if the loan had not been modified. As a result, we cannot ascertain, with confidence, whether these programs will provide material benefits to us. Any termination or temporary cessation of any of these programs could result in an increased number of claims in our mortgage insurance business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Foreclosure moratoriums may extend the period of time that a loan remains in our delinquent loan inventory and increase the severity of claims we are required to pay once the moratoriums expire. Various government entities and private parties have from time to time enacted foreclosure (or equivalent) moratoriums to allow time to determine whether delinquent loans could be modified. Recently, moratoriums also have been imposed in response to allegations that certain mortgage servicers and other parties acted improperly in foreclosure proceedings. Generally, moratoriums do not stop the accrual of interest or affect other expenses on a loan, and unless a loan is cured during a moratorium, at the expiration of the moratorium, our paid claim amount may include additional interest (subject to a two-year limitation under our insurance policies) and expenses. However, where our claim amount is increased because of foreclosure delays caused by a failure to appropriately service or meet other conditions under our insurance policies, we are entitled to adjust claims appropriately. The various moratoriums may delay our receipt of claims, resulting in an increase in the period that a loan remains in our delinquent loan inventory, and may increase the severity of claims that we are ultimately required to pay. 82 Table of Contents Mortgage refinancings in the current housing market may increase the risk profile of our existing mortgage insurance portfolio. Mortgage interest rates have recently been at historically low levels that have led many borrowers to seek to refinance their existing mortgages. However, because most lenders are currently utilizing more restrictive underwriting guidelines, only those borrowers with strong credit profiles are generally able to qualify for the new loans required to refinance. Consequently, only highly qualified borrowers are generally able to refinance in the current market. As more of these highly qualified borrowers refinance (and their existing mortgage insurance with us is canceled), the total percentage of our risk in force related to high-risk borrowers who have not or could not refinance could increase, which could increase the risk profile of our existing mortgage insurance portfolio and potentially reduce the future profitability of our mortgage insurance business. Our success depends on our ability to assess and manage our underwriting risks; the premiums we charge may not be adequate to compensate us for our liability for losses. Our mortgage insurance and financial guaranty premium rates may not be adequate to cover future losses. Our mortgage insurance premiums are based on our long-term expected risk of claims on insured loans, and take into account, among other factors, each loan’s LTV, type (e.g., prime vs. non-prime or fixed vs. variable payments), term, coverage percentage or the existence of a deductible in front of our loss position. Our financial guaranty premiums are based on our expected risk of claim on the insured obligation, and take into account, among other factors, the rating and creditworthiness of the issuer and of the insured obligations, the type of insured obligation, the policy term and the structure of the transaction being insured. The estimates and expectations we used in establishing premium rates are based on assumptions made at the time our insurance is written. These assumptions may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. In particular, the predictive value of historical data may be less reliable during periods of greater economic stress and, accordingly, our ability to correctly estimate our premium requirements may be impaired during the current economic uncertainty. We generally cannot cancel or elect not to renew the mortgage insurance or financial guaranty insurance coverage we provide, and because we generally fix premium rates for the life of a policy when issued, we cannot adjust renewal premiums or otherwise adjust premiums over the life of a policy. Therefore, even if the risk underlying many of the mortgage or financial guaranty products we have insured develops more adversely than we anticipated, including as a result of the ongoing weakness in many parts of the economy and housing market downturn, and the premiums our customers are currently paying for similar coverage on new business from us and others has increased, we generally cannot increase the premium rates on this in-force business, or cancel coverage or elect not to renew coverage, to mitigate the effects of such adverse developments. Our premiums earned and the associated investment income on those premiums may ultimately prove to be inadequate to compensate for the losses that we may incur with respect to those insured risks. Our delegated underwriting program may subject our mortgage insurance business to unanticipated claims. In our mortgage insurance business, we enter into agreements with our mortgage lender customers that commit us to insure loans made by them using pre-established underwriting guidelines. Once we accept a lender into our delegated underwriting program, we generally insure a loan originated by that lender even if the lender does not follow our specified underwriting guidelines. Under this program, a lender could commit us to insure a material number of loans with unacceptable risk profiles before we discover the problem and terminate that lender’s delegated underwriting authority, as well as pursue other rights that may be available to us, such as our rights to rescind coverage or deny claims. Our ability to rescind coverage or deny claims on loans in the delegated underwriting program may also be challenged by our mortgage lender customers, may lead to the loss of one or more customers, or may lead to litigation with a customer. 83 Table of Contents We face risks associated with our contract underwriting business. We provide contract underwriting services for certain of our mortgage lender customers, including on loans for which we are not providing mortgage insurance. For substantially all of the existing loans that were originated through our contract underwriting services, we agree that if we make material errors that lead to a default in connection with these services, the mortgage lender may, subject to certain conditions, require us to purchase the loans, issue mortgage insurance on the loans, or indemnify the lender against future loss associated with the loans. Accordingly, we assume some credit risk and interest-rate risk in connection with providing these services. Depending on market conditions, a significant amount of our underwriting services may be performed by independent contractors hired by us on a temporary basis. If these independent contractors make more material errors than we anticipate, the resulting need to provide greater than anticipated recourse to mortgage lenders could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We also face regulatory risk in providing these services. See “Legislation and regulatory changes and interpretations could harm our mortgage insurance business.” Further downgrades or potential downgrades of our credit ratings or the insurance financial strength ratings assigned to any of our mortgage insurance or financial guaranty subsidiaries are possible and could weaken our competitive position and affect our financial condition. The credit ratings of Radian Group and the insurance financial strength ratings assigned to our insurance subsidiaries have been downgraded multiple times since 2008 and may be further downgraded. In December 2009, S&P downgraded the financial strength ratings of our mortgage insurance subsidiaries, including Radian Guaranty, to B+ and also downgraded the financial strength ratings of Radian Asset Assurance to BB-. In May 2010, S&P noted a continuing negative outlook for our mortgage insurance subsidiaries as a result of the ongoing economic uncertainty and potential for litigation risk relating to our rescissions and claim denials. In response to current market conditions, the rating agencies are engaged in ongoing monitoring of the mortgage insurance and financial guaranty industries and could take action, including by downgrading or warning of the strong possibility of downgrade, with respect to one or more companies in a specific industry. Although we remain in frequent contact with the rating agencies and have prepared action plans to address rating agency actions, we are generally not provided with much advance notice of ratings decisions, which could come at any time. On January 24, 2011, S&P released proposed changes to its ratings criteria for financial guarantors, which among other things, adds additional qualitative and quantitative tests to their criteria. S&P has indicated that it expects that, if implemented, the proposed changes would significantly increase the capital required by financial guarantors in order for them to achieve the highest investment-grade ratings from S&P. Because Radian Asset Assurance is currently rated below investment-grade, we are uncertain what impact, if any, the proposed changes will have on Radian Asset Assurance or Radian Group. These changes could, however, have a material adverse effect on other financial guarantors or the financial guaranty industry generally and make it more difficult for us to successfully utilize the FG Insurance Shell or further reduce our financial guaranty exposure through commutations or recaptures of business by our primary ceding customers. Historically, our ratings have been critical to our ability to market our products and to maintain our competitive position and customer confidence in our products. A further downgrade in these ratings or the announcement of the potential of a further downgrade, or any other concern relating to the ongoing financial strength of our insurance subsidiaries, could make it difficult or impossible for them to continue to write new, profitable business or could create a competitive advantage for other industry participants that maintain higher ratings than us. Further, although we believe the GSEs currently are not as concerned with ratings as they have been in past periods, any additional downgrade of the insurance financial strength ratings for our mortgage insurance business could negatively impact our eligibility status with the GSEs. See “We could lose our eligibility status with the GSEs, causing Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae to decide not to purchase mortgages insured by us, which would significantly impair our mortgage insurance franchise” above. A ratings downgrade may also make it more difficult for us to 84 Table of Contents successfully raise capital, including by limiting us to terms that are less attractive or not acceptable to us or by limiting the size of such an offering to an amount that would not be sufficient to restore or stabilize our ratings. Because we do not establish reserves in our mortgage insurance business until a borrower has failed to make two monthly payments rather than based on estimates of our ultimate losses on non-defaulted loans, our financial statements do not reflect our ultimate expected obligation for losses on our entire portfolio of insured mortgages. We do not establish reserves in our mortgage insurance business until we are notified that a borrower has failed to make at least two monthly payments when due. We maintain an extensive database of claim payment history and use models, based on a variety of loan characteristics, including the status of the loan as reported by its servicer and the type of loan product, to determine the likelihood that a default will reach claim status. Because our mortgage insurance reserving does not account for the impact of future losses that we expect to incur with respect to currently non-defaulted loans, our obligation for ultimate losses that we expect to incur at any period end is not reflected in our financial statements, except to the extent that a premium deficiency exists. As a result, future losses beyond what we have recorded in our financial statements or lower premiums than we have estimated in our premium deficiency analysis may have a material impact on future results as defaults occur. If the estimates we use in establishing loss reserves for our mortgage insurance or financial guaranty businesses are incorrect, we may be required to take unexpected charges to income, which could hurt our capital position. We establish loss reserves in both our mortgage insurance and financial guaranty businesses to provide for the estimated cost of future claims. Because our reserves represent only our best estimate of claims to be paid in the future, these reserves may be insufficient to satisfy the full amount of claims that we ultimately have to pay. Setting our loss reserves requires significant judgment by management with respect to the likelihood, magnitude and timing of anticipated losses. The models and estimates we use to establish loss reserves may prove to be inaccurate, especially during an extended economic downturn or a period of extreme credit market volatility, as currently exists. Many of the programs and initiatives that have been implemented to prevent or forestall foreclosures have resulted in fewer defaulted loans moving to claim, and consequently, an increase in the aging of our inventory of defaulted loans. As a result, the number of our defaulted loans that have been in default for 240 or more days, which represents our most aged category of defaulted loans, currently represents a significantly larger portion of our default inventory than has historically been the case. While these loans are generally assigned a higher loss reserve based on our belief that they are more likely to result in a claim, we also assume, based on historical trends that a significant portion of these loans will cure and not result in a claim. Given current market conditions, the limited number of cures we are currently seeing among this inventory of loans, and the significant period of time that these loans have been in default, it is possible that the ultimate cure rate for these defaulted loans will be significantly less than historical rates, and therefore, less than our current estimates of cures for this inventory of defaults. Further, the recent foreclosure moratoriums that have been imposed in response to allegations that certain mortgage servicers and other parties acted improperly in foreclosure proceedings may result in further aging of our defaulted loan portfolio, decrease claim payments for a temporary period and create additional uncertainty regarding the likelihood, magnitude and timing of anticipated losses. If our estimates are inadequate, we may be required to increase our reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, capital position and operating results, as well as our ability to continue to write new business. In addition to establishing mortgage insurance loss reserves for defaulted loans, we are required under GAAP to establish a premium deficiency reserve for our mortgage insurance products if the amount by which the net present value of expected future losses for a particular product and the expenses for such product exceeds the net present value of expected future premiums and existing reserves for such product. We evaluate whether a premium deficiency exists at the end of each fiscal quarter. As of December 31, 2010, a premium deficiency reserve of $10.7 million existed for our second-lien mortgage insurance business. Because our evaluation of premium deficiency is 85 Table of Contents based on our best estimate of future losses, expenses and premiums, the evaluation is inherently uncertain and may prove to be inaccurate. Although no premium deficiency existed on our first-lien mortgage insurance business at December 31, 2010, there can be no assurance that premium deficiency reserves will not be required for this product or our other mortgage insurance products in future periods. It also is difficult to estimate appropriate loss reserves for our financial guaranty business because of the nature of potential losses in that business, which are largely influenced by the particular circumstances surrounding each troubled credit, including the availability of loss mitigation, and therefore, our loss reserves are less capable of being evaluated based on historical assumptions or precedent. In addition, in our financial guaranty reinsurance business, we rely in part on information provided by our ceding customers in order to establish reserves. If this information is incomplete, inaccurate or untimely, our loss reserves may not be estimated accurately and could require material adjustment in future periods as new or corrected information becomes available. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to manage risks in our investment portfolio. Income from our investment portfolio is one of our primary sources of cash flow to support our operations and claim payments. If we underestimate our policy liabilities, or if we improperly structure our investments to meet those liabilities, we could have unexpected losses, including losses resulting from the forced liquidation of investments before their maturity. Our investments and investment policies and those of our subsidiaries are subject to state insurance laws. We may be forced to change our investments or investment policies depending upon regulatory, economic and market conditions, and our existing or anticipated financial condition and operating requirements, including the tax position, of our business segments. Our investment objectives may not be achieved. Although our portfolio consists mostly of highly-rated investments and complies with applicable regulatory requirements, the success of our investment activity is affected by general economic conditions, which may adversely affect the markets for credit and interest-rate-sensitive securities, including the extent and timing of investor participation in these markets, the level and volatility of interest rates and, consequently, the value of our fixed-income securities. Volatility or illiquidity in the markets in which we hold positions has reduced the market value of some of our investments and has caused certain other-than-temporary impairments within our portfolio, which, if this worsens substantially, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and operating results. See “Item 7A—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Interest-Rate Risk” for a discussion regarding the sensitivity of our fixed-income securities to changes in interest rates. Compared to historical averages, interest rates and investment yields on our investments have generally declined, which has reduced the investment income we generate. In addition, we have kept a larger portion of our investment portfolio in shorter maturity investments in order to meet the expected liquidity needs of our operating subsidiaries. This, in turn, has further reduced our investment income as interest rates on short-term investments have been minimal. We depend on our investments as a source of revenue, and a prolonged period of low investment yields would have an adverse impact on our revenues and could potentially adversely affect our results of operations. Radian Group’s sources of liquidity may be insufficient to fund it’s obligations. Radian Group acts principally as a holding company for our insurance subsidiaries and does not have any significant operations of its own. Radian Group’s most significant liquidity demands for the foreseeable future include funds for (i) the payment of certain corporate expenses (which are fully reimbursed through expense-sharing arrangements with our subsidiaries), (ii) interest payments on our outstanding long-term debt (which are fully reimbursed through expense-sharing arrangements with our subsidiaries), (iii) repayment of the principal amount of our outstanding long-term debt, including the principal amount of our debentures due in June 2011, of which $160.3 million is outstanding as of December 31, 2010, $250 million in principal amount of senior notes due in each of 2013 and 2015, and $450 million in principal amount of convertible senior notes due in 2017, 86 Table of Contents (iv) payments under our tax-sharing agreement, including our current estimate of approximately $63.8 million to be paid to Radian Guaranty in October 2011, (v) potential capital support for our mortgage insurance subsidiaries, and (vi) the payment of dividends on our common stock which are currently $1.3 million per year. Radian Group had immediately available, directly or through an unregulated direct subsidiary, unrestricted cash and marketable securities of approximately $797.5 million at December 31, 2010. Radian Group could be required to provide capital support for our mortgage insurance subsidiaries if additional capital is required pursuant to insurance laws and regulations or by the GSEs or the rating agencies. In connection with a financial examination of CMAC of Texas by the Texas Department of Insurance (“TXDOI”) for the January 1, 2007 through December 31, 2008 period, the TXDOI examiners notified us that they do not agree with our statutory accounting treatment pertaining to the proposed tax adjustments resulting from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) examination of Radian Group’s 2000 through 2004 tax years. See “The IRS is examining our tax returns for the years 2000 through 2007.” Based on their review at the time, the TXDOI examiners proposed a reduction to CMAC of Texas’s statutory surplus of approximately $128 million and, if such adjustment is sustained, CMAC of Texas would require additional capital support to maintain its minimum $20 million statutory surplus. Following this review by the TXDOI, we have reached a tentative settlement agreement with the IRS, which if finalized, is likely to result in a minimal statutory impact on CMAC of Texas. Due to the disagreement regarding the statutory accounting treatment for these issues, CMAC of Texas has not been able to file its 2009 annual audited statutory financial statements, which were due on June 30, 2010. The TXDOI has informed us that it does not plan to take any action with regard to CMAC of Texas not being in compliance with this filing requirement. However, given our current non-compliance, we believe the TXDOI could revoke or restrict CMAC of Texas’s ability to write new intercompany reinsurance at any time. Because CMAC of Texas provides reinsurance to Radian Guaranty, any such action could have a significant negative impact on Radian Guaranty’s risk-to-capital ratio, and consequently, its ability to write new mortgage insurance business. Dividends from our insurance subsidiaries and permitted payments to Radian Group under tax- and expense-sharing arrangements with our subsidiaries are Radian Group’s principal sources of cash. Our insurance subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends to Radian Group is subject to various conditions imposed by the GSEs and rating agencies, and by insurance regulations requiring insurance department approval. In general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits are deemed “extraordinary” and require insurance regulatory approval. In light of ongoing losses in our mortgage insurance subsidiaries, we do not anticipate that these subsidiaries will be permitted under applicable insurance laws to issue dividends to Radian Group for the foreseeable future. To the extent Radian Asset Assurance is able to declare dividends, these dividends will be paid to Radian Guaranty, and not to Radian Group. The expense-sharing arrangements between Radian Group and our insurance subsidiaries, as amended, have been approved by applicable state insurance departments, but such approval may be changed at any time. If the cash Radian Group receives from our subsidiaries pursuant to dividend payments and expense- and tax-sharing arrangements and other sources of liquidity is insufficient for Radian Group to fund its obligations, we may be required to seek capital by incurring additional debt, by issuing additional equity or by selling assets, any of which we may be unable to do on favorable terms, if at all. The need to raise additional capital or the failure to make timely payments on our obligations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. For additional information regarding our liquidity demands and sources of liquidity, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our reported earnings are subject to fluctuations based on changes in our credit derivatives, trading securities, and other financial instruments that require us to adjust their fair market value as reflected on our statements of operations. We have significant assets and liabilities that we are required (or have elected) to carry at fair value, with changes in fair market value recorded on our statements of operations each period. These assets and liabilities 87 Table of Contents include our credit derivatives, trading securities, and VIE debt and related assets. Because the changes in fair value of these derivatives and other financial instruments are reflected on our statements of operations, they affect our reported earnings and create earnings volatility. Economic conditions as well as adverse capital market conditions, including but not limited to, credit spread changes, benchmark interest rate changes, market volatility and declines in the value of underlying collateral will impact the credit quality, liquidity and value of our investments and derivatives, potentially resulting in unrealized or realized losses. Specifically with respect to our credit derivatives, the gains and losses on these contracts are derived from internally generated models, which may differ from models used by our counterparties or others in the industry. We estimate fair value amounts using market information, to the extent available, and valuation methodologies that we deem appropriate in order to estimate the fair value amounts that would be exchanged to sell an asset or transfer a liability. Considerable judgment is required to interpret available market data to develop the estimates of fair value. Since there currently is no active market for many derivative products, we have had to use assumptions as to what could be realized in a current market exchange. In the event that our investments or derivative contracts were sold or transferred in a forced liquidation or otherwise, the fair values received or paid could be materially different than those reflected in our financial statements. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies—Derivative Instruments and Related VIE Assets/Liabilities” below. Temporary market or credit spread changes as well as actual credit improvement or deterioration in our derivative contracts are reflected in changes in fair value of derivative instruments. Additionally, beginning in 2008, in accordance with the accounting pronouncement regarding fair value measurements, we made an adjustment to our derivative liability valuation methodology to account for our own non-performance risk by incorporating our observable CDS spread into the determination of fair value of our credit derivatives. Our five-year CDS spread has increased significantly since January 2007, and was 465 basis points as of December 31, 2010. This market perception of our high risk of non-performance has had the effect of reducing our derivative liability valuations by approximately $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2010. Perceived improvement in our financial condition could cause our CDS spread to tighten. If our CDS spread tightens significantly, and other credit spreads utilized in our fair value methodologies remained constant, our earnings could be significantly reduced. See “Item 7A—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Credit Risk” for a discussion regarding the sensitivity of our fair value liability to changes in credit spreads. Our international operations subject us to risks. We are subject to a number of risks associated with our legacy international mortgage insurance and international financial guaranty business activities, including: • dependence on regulatory and third-party approvals; • foreign governments’ monetary policies and regulatory requirements; • economic downturns in targeted foreign mortgage origination markets; • interest-rate volatility in a variety of countries; • political instability and risks of war, terrorism, civil disturbances or other events that may limit or disrupt markets; • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign regulations and laws, some of which are materially different than the regulatory and statutory requirements we face in our domestic business, and which may change unexpectedly; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; and • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. 88 Table of Contents Given our current strategic focus on domestic mortgage insurance, we have ceased writing new international business and have significantly reduced our existing international exposures. In certain cases, our ability to reduce our exposure depends on our counterparty’s ability to find alternative insurance, which opportunities are limited in the current economic environment. Accordingly, we may not be able to recover all of the capital supporting our international operations for many years, if at all, and may not recover all of such capital if losses are worse than expected. Further, any one or more of the risks listed above could limit or prohibit us from effectively running off our international operations. On March 1, 2011, we sold our 45% interest in the holding company of a Brazilian insurance company, which specializes in surety and agricultural insurance, to another owner for a nominal purchase price. This company and its subsidiaries are subject to regulation by The Superintendence of Private Insurance, the regulatory agency responsible for the supervision and control of the insurance market in Brazil. Although we wrote off our entire interest in this company in 2005 and have sold our ownership interest, under Brazilian law, it is possible that we could become liable for our proportionate share of the liabilities of the company related to the period in which we were a significant shareholder, if the company was to become insolvent and had insufficient capital to satisfy its outstanding liabilities. Our share of the liabilities of the company was approximately $103.4 million as of December 31, 2010. We may lose business if we are unable to meet our customers’ technological demands. Participants in the mortgage insurance industry rely on e-commerce and other technologies to provide and expand their products and services. Our customers generally require that we provide aspects of our products and services electronically, and the percentage of our new insurance written and claims processing that we deliver electronically has continued to increase. We expect this trend to continue and, accordingly, we may not satisfy our customers’ requirements if we fail to invest sufficient resources or otherwise are unable to maintain and upgrade our technological capabilities. This may result in a decrease in the business we receive, which could negatively impact our profitability. Our information technology systems may not be configured to process information regarding new and emerging products. Many of our information technology systems have been in place for a number of years and originally were designed to process information regarding traditional products. As new products with new features emerge or when we modify our underwriting standards as we have done recently, our systems may require modification in order to recognize these features to allow us to price or bill for our insurance of these products appropriately. Our systems may not be capable of recording, or may incorrectly record, information that may be important to our risk management and other functions. In addition, our customers may encounter similar technological issues that prevent them from sending us complete information about the products or transactions that we insure. Making appropriate modifications to our systems involves inherent time lags and may require us to incur significant expenses. These problems may be exacerbated if we find it necessary to write-first lien business out of Amerin Guaranty, as discussed above in “Losses in our mortgage insurance business have reduced Radian Guaranty’s statutory surplus and increased Radian Guaranty’s risk-to-capital ratio; additional losses in our mortgage insurance portfolio or financial guaranty portfolio without a corresponding increase in new capital or capital relief could further negatively impact these ratios, which could limit Radian Guaranty’s ability to write new insurance and could increase restrictions and requirements placed on Radian Guaranty.” The inability to make necessary modifications to our systems in a timely and cost-effective manner may have adverse effects on our business, financial condition and operating results. 89 Table of Contents We could be adversely affected if personal information that we maintain on consumers is improperly disclosed. As part of our business, we and certain of our subsidiaries and affiliates maintain large amounts of personal information on consumers. While we believe we have appropriate information security policies and systems to prevent unauthorized disclosure, there can be no assurance that unauthorized disclosure, either through the actions of third parties or our employees, will not occur. Unauthorized disclosure could adversely affect our reputation and expose us to civil liability and material claims for damages. We are subject to the risk of private litigation and regulatory proceedings. We currently are a party to material litigation as well as certain regulatory proceedings, as discussed in “Business—Regulation” and in “Legal Proceedings.” The ultimate resolution of these matters could have a material adverse impact on our financial results, financial condition, and on the trading price of our common stock. There can be no assurance that additional lawsuits, regulatory proceedings and other matters will not arise. Recently, we have faced an increasing number of challenges from certain of our lender customers regarding our insurance rescissions and claim denials. These discussions, if not resolved, could result in arbitration or judicial proceedings. See “Insurance rescissions and claim denials may not continue at the levels we have recently experienced and an increasing number of our lender customers are challenging our insurance rescissions and claim denials.” There has been increased litigation in our industry relating to rescissions and denials. Although we are not a party to any material litigation relating to rescissions and denials, we cannot predict whether such actions may be brought against us and since certain litigation relates to mortgage insurance policy terms and practices that are widely used in the mortgage insurance industry, the outcome of this litigation may impact us. If this litigation results in a change in mortgage insurance policy terms and practices that are widely used by the mortgage insurance industry, including by us, or if we engage in material litigation with any customer and, as a result, the customer limits the amount of business they conduct with us or terminates our business relationship altogether, it could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. Our senior management and board of directors have been required to devote significant time to litigation and regulatory proceedings and will likely be required to continue to devote substantial additional time to these matters in the future. There can be no assurance that these lawsuits, regulatory investigations and other legal matters will not have a disruptive effect upon the operations of the business. In addition, we have incurred (and are likely to continue to incur), substantial expenses in connection with such matters, including substantial fees for attorneys and other professional advisors. See also “Legislation and regulatory changes and interpretations could harm our mortgage insurance business,” “Legislation and regulatory changes and interpretations could harm our financial guaranty business” and “The IRS is examining our tax returns for the years 2000 through 2007.” The IRS is examining our tax returns for the years 2000 through 2007. We are currently involved in the process of contesting proposed adjustments resulting from the examination by the IRS for the 2000 through 2007 tax years. The IRS opposes the recognition of certain tax losses and deductions that were generated through our investment in a portfolio of residual interests in Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduits (“REMICs”) and has proposed adjustments denying the associated tax benefits of these items. The originally proposed adjustments relating to the 2000 through 2007 tax years, if sustained, would have increased our original tax liability for those years by approximately $128 million, in addition to any associated penalties and interest. We appealed these proposed adjustments to the IRS Office of Appeals and made “qualified deposits” with the U.S. Department of the Treasury of approximately $89 million to avoid the accrual of above-market-rate interest with respect to the proposed adjustments. 90 Table of Contents In December 2010, we reached a tentative settlement agreement with the IRS. Under the terms of this tentative settlement agreement, we believe that we will be entitled to a return of a substantial majority of the $89 million in qualified deposits. We do not expect to execute a final closing agreement with the IRS for several months and until such time there can be no assurance that the terms of our tentative agreement with the IRS will not change materially or that we will successfully conclude a final closing agreement with respect to this matter. After discussions with outside counsel about the issues raised in the examination and the tentative settlement agreement reached, we believe that an adequate provision for income taxes has been made for potential liabilities that may result. However, if the final closing agreement differs materially from our current expectations or we are unable to enter into a final closing agreement, there could be a negative impact on our effective tax rate, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to realize all of our deferred tax assets in the future. As of December 31, 2010, before consideration of our valuation allowance, we had deferred tax assets (“DTA”), net of deferred tax liabilities, of approximately $879.4 million. At each balance sheet date, we assess our need for a valuation allowance, and we are required to establish a valuation allowance against our DTA when we determine that it is more likely than not that all or some portion of our DTA will not be realized. We established a valuation allowance of approximately $841.5 million in the three months ended December 31, 2010, which is in addition to the $10.4 million that had previously been recorded at September 30, 2010. At December 31, 2010, our total valuation allowance is approximately $851.9 million and is equal to substantially all of our net DTA. Our ability to realize these tax benefits ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income of the appropriate character (ordinary income or capital gains) within the applicable carryback and carryforward periods provided under the tax law. Based on our current projections, we believe our DTA (and the associated valuation allowance) are likely to increase. While we project long-term profitability, in light of the current economic uncertainty and continued weakness in the housing markets, it remains uncertain if and when we may return to profitability on a consistent basis. Even if we return to a period of sustained profitability, there is a risk that such period of profitability will not be long enough in duration to generate sufficient future taxable income to permit us to realize some or all of our tax benefits. Even if we were to realize our future tax benefits, the timing may be significantly delayed. Our ability to recognize tax benefits on future domestic U.S. tax losses and our existing U.S. net operating loss position may be limited under applicable tax laws. We have generated substantial NOLs, loss carryforwards and other tax attributes for U.S. tax purposes that can be used to reduce our future federal income tax obligations. Our ability to fully use these tax assets (including NOLs of approximately $2.1 billion as of December 31, 2010) will be adversely affected if we have an “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382 of the IRC. An ownership change is generally defined as a greater than 50 percentage point increase in equity ownership by “five-percent shareholders” (as that term is defined for purposes of Section 382 of the IRC) in any three-year period. We may experience an “ownership change” in the future as a result of changes in our stock ownership. On October 8, 2009, our board of directors adopted a Tax Benefit Preservation Plan (the “Plan”), which, as amended, was approved by our stockholders at the 2010 annual meeting. We also adopted certain amendments to our amended and restated bylaws (the “Bylaw Amendment”) and our stockholders approved at the 2010 annual meeting certain amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation (the “Charter Amendment”). The Plan, the Bylaw Amendment and the Charter Amendment were implemented in order to protect our ability to utilize our NOLs and other tax assets and prevent an “ownership change” under U.S. federal income tax rules. These provisions restrict or discourage certain transfers of our common stock that would (i) create or result in a person becoming a five-percent shareholder under Section 382 of the IRC or (ii) increase the stock ownership of any existing five-percent shareholder under Section 382. However, there is no guarantee that these steps will be effective in protecting our NOLs and other tax assets. The amount of our NOLs has not been audited or otherwise validated by the IRS. The IRS could challenge the 91 Table of Contents amount of our NOLs and other tax assets, which could result in an increase in our liability in the future for income taxes. In addition, determining whether an “ownership change” has occurred is subject to uncertainty, both because of the complexity and ambiguity of Section 382 of the IRC and because of limitations on a publicly traded company’s knowledge as to the ownership of, and transactions in, its securities. Therefore, even though we currently have several measures in place to protect our NOLs (such as the Plan, the Bylaw Amendment and the Charter Amendment), we cannot provide any assurance that the IRS or other taxing authority will not claim that we have experienced an “ownership change” and attempt to reduce the benefit of our tax assets. The steps we have taken to protect our NOLs may discourage transactions in our common stock or be challenged by our stockholders. Since the Plan, the Bylaw Amendment, and the Charter Amendment all restrict or prohibit certain transfers of our common stock, they may make it more difficult and more expensive to acquire us, and may discourage open market purchases of our common stock or a non-negotiated tender or exchange offer for our common stock. Accordingly, they may limit a stockholder’s ability to realize a premium over the market price of our common stock in connection with any stock transaction. The rules for determining ownership for the purposes of the Plan, the Bylaw Amendment and the Charter Amendment in general track the definition of ownership for purposes of Section 382 of the IRC, which differs from the traditional concepts of beneficial ownership under the federal securities laws. Consequently, an investor in our common stock is not able to rely upon the definition of beneficial ownership under the federal securities laws in determining whether or not such investor is in compliance with the requirements of the Plan, the Bylaw Amendment and the Charter Amendment. Although the Section 382 definition of ownership generally is narrower than beneficial ownership under the federal securities laws, any ambiguity created by the differences in these definitions may discourage investments in our common stock. Additionally, it is possible that one or more stockholders could challenge the enforceability of the transfer restrictions contained in the Bylaw Amendment and the Charter Amendment, and a court could find that the Bylaw Amendment or the Charter Amendment is unenforceable, either in general or as applied to a particular stockholder or particular fact situation. This potential for litigation regarding the enforceability of the transfer restrictions may discourage investments in our common stock. However, as we currently intend to retain the Plan in place, it is unlikely that any investor will seek to exceed the limits included in the Plan and so will not be likely to have any reason to challenge the Bylaw Amendment or the Charter Amendment. In general, the Plan and the transfer restrictions contained in the By-Law Amendment and in the Charter Amendment will each terminate (i) if Section 382 is repealed and the Board determines that the transfer restrictions contained therein are no longer necessary for the preservation of the tax benefits, (ii) at the beginning of a taxable year to which the Board determines that no NOLs may be carried forward; or (iii) if the Board determines that the potential limitation on the use of the tax benefits under Section 382 is no longer material to us. Finally, the Plan will terminate if it is not re-approved by our stockholders every three years. Legislation and regulatory changes and interpretations could harm our mortgage insurance business. Our mortgage insurance business may be affected by the application of federal and state consumer lending and insurance laws and regulations and by changes in these laws and regulations. See “Business—Regulation—State Regulation” and “Business—Regulation—Federal Regulation.” In particular, our mortgage insurance business may be significantly impacted by the following: • The Dodd Frank Act and the rules and regulations developed pursuant to this act. See “The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act may have a material effect on our mortgage insurance and financial guaranty businesses”; 92 Table of Contents • Legislation impacting the charters or business practices of the GSEs. See “Because most of the mortgage loans we insure are sold to Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, changes in their charters or business practices could significantly impact our mortgage insurance business”; • Legislative reform of the U.S. housing finance system, including changes made in response to the reform proposal recently released by the Administration. See “Business—Regulation—Federal Regulation—Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae”; • Legislation and regulation impacting the FHA and its competitive position verses private mortgage insurers. See “Our mortgage insurance business faces intense competition”; • State insurance laws and regulations that address, among other items, licensing of companies to transact business, claims handling, reinsurance requirements, premium rates, policy forms offered to customers, and requirements for risk-to-capital, reserves, surplus, reinsurance and payment of dividends. See “Business—Regulation—State Regulation”; • The application of federal programs, such as HAMP and HARP, developed under the U.S. Treasury Department’s Homeownership Affordability and Stability Plan and other state or federal programs aimed at supporting borrowers and the housing market. See “Business—Regulation—Federal Regulation—Homeowner Assistance Programs”; • The application of RESPA, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and other laws to mortgage insurers, including with respect to captive reinsurance arrangements, contract underwriting services and pool insurance. See “Business—Regulation—Federal Regulation—Real Estate Settlement Practices Act of 1974 (“RESPA”) or “SAFE Mortgage Licensing Act (the “SAFE ACT”)”; • Federal legislation impacting the deductibility of mortgage insurance. See “Business—Regulation—Federal Regulation—Mortgage Insurance Tax Deductibility”; and • The implementation in the U.S. of Basel II and the new Basel III guidelines. See “The implementation of the Basel II capital accord may discourage the use of mortgage insurance.” Any of the items discussed above could harm our operating results, financial condition and business prospects. In addition, our mortgage insurance business could be impacted by new legislation or regulations, as well as changes to existing legislation or regulations, that are not currently contemplated and which could occur at anytime. Legislation and regulatory changes and interpretations could harm our financial guaranty business. The laws and regulations affecting the municipal, structured finance and trade credit debt markets, as well as other governmental regulations, may be changed in ways that could adversely affect our financial guaranty business. See “The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act may have a material effect on our mortgage insurance and financial guaranty businesses” below for information regarding the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our financial guaranty business. In addition, while we are still analyzing the potential impact, we believe it is possible that the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, could adversely affect some of the healthcare institutions we have insured in our public finance line of business. At the state level, our regulators are continuing to consider modification of the laws, rules and regulations applicable to financial guarantors, including placing additional restrictions on the writing and holding of risk in the form of CDS. These legislative initiatives could result in additional constraints on our holding risk and limitations on our ability to conduct future financial guaranty business, including additional restrictions and limitations on our ability to declare dividends or more stringent statutory capital requirements for all or certain segments of our financial guaranty businesses. Any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 93 Table of Contents The implementation of the Basel II capital accord may discourage the use of mortgage insurance. In 1988, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision developed the Basel Capital Accord (“Basel I”), which established international benchmarks for assessing banks’ capital adequacy requirements. In June 2005, the Basel Committee issued an update to Basel I (as revised in November 2005, “Basel II”). Basel II has been implemented by many banks in the U.S. and many other countries in 2009 and 2010. Basel II affects the capital treatment provided to mortgage insurance by domestic and international banks in both their origination and securitization activities. The Basel II provisions related to residential mortgages and mortgage insurance may provide incentives to certain of our bank customers not to insure mortgages having a lower risk of claim and to insure mortgages having a higher risk of claim. In September 2010, the Basel Committee released Basel III guidelines, which will increase the capital requirements of certain banking organizations. Implementation of the Basel III guidelines will require formal regulations, which have not yet been proposed by the federal banking agencies and will involve a substantial phase-in period. Without more information regarding these regulations, we are not yet able to evaluate the potential effects of the Basel III guidelines on our business. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act may have a material effect on our mortgage insurance and financial guaranty businesses. The Dodd-Frank Act contains many new regulations and mandates additional significant rule-making by several regulatory agencies to implement its far reaching provisions. Therefore, the full scope of the Dodd-Frank Act and its impact on our mortgage insurance and financial guaranty businesses will remain uncertain until the final rules are implemented. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things: • establishes the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection to regulate the offering and provision of consumer financial products or services under federal law, including residential mortgages; • requires securitizers to retain some of the risk associated with mortgage loans that they transfer, sell or convey, unless the mortgage loans are “qualified residential mortgages” or are insured by the FHA or another federal agency. The Dodd-Frank Act provides that the definition of “qualified residential mortgages” will be determined by regulators, with consideration to be given, among other things, to the presence of mortgage insurance. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act authorizes regulators to issue regulations prohibiting a creditor from making a residential mortgage loan unless the creditor makes a reasonable and good faith determination that, at the time the loan is consummated, the consumer has a reasonable ability to repay the loan. The Act provides that a creditor may presume that a borrower will be able to repay a loan if the loan has certain low-risk characteristics that meet the definition of a “qualified mortgage.” Depending on whether and to what extent loans with mortgage insurance are considered “qualified residential mortgages” for purposes of the Dodd-Frank securitization provisions or “qualified mortgages” for purposes of the ability to repay provisions, this legislation (a draft rule that defines “qualified residential mortgages” is expected shortly and the final rule is required by the Dodd-Frank Act on April 17, 2011) could materially adversely affect the amount of new mortgage insurance that we write; • may impose additional reporting, capital and collateral requirements on our financial guaranty business, including potentially, the posting of collateral for existing derivative contracts. Although Senators Christopher Dodd and Blanche Lincoln have written that the capital and margin requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act are not intended to apply retroactively to existing derivative contracts, the Dodd-Frank Act is silent on this point, leaving the determination to the applicable regulatory agencies in their rule-making under the Dodd-Frank Act. We can provide no assurance that these requirements will not be applied retroactively to our existing derivative contracts, which if so applied, would likely require that we post significant collateral amounts that could exceed our current investment balances, and consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses and on our financial condition, including significantly reducing or eliminating the ability of our financial guaranty business to provide dividends to our mortgage insurance business; 94 Table of Contents • sets new limitations and restrictions on banking, derivatives and asset-backed securities that may make it more difficult for us to commute, restructure, hedge or otherwise mitigate losses or reduce exposure on our existing financial guaranty portfolio; and • establishes a Financial Stability Oversight Council, which is authorized to subject nonbank financial companies deemed systemically significant to more rigorous prudential standards and other requirements and to subject such companies to a special liquidation process outside the federal bankruptcy code, administered by the FDIC (although insurance company subsidiaries would remain subject to liquidation and rehabilitation proceedings under state law). In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act establishes a Federal Insurance Office within the Department of the Treasury. While not having a general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance, the director of this office will perform various functions with respect to insurance, including serving as a non-voting member of the Financial Stability Oversight Council and making recommendations to the Council regarding insurers to be designated for more stringent regulation. The director is also required to conduct a study on how to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the United States, including by increased national uniformity through either a federal charter or effective action by the states. We cannot predict the requirements of the regulations ultimately adopted under the Dodd-Frank Act, the effect such regulations will have on financial markets generally, or on our mortgage insurance and financial guaranty businesses specifically, the additional costs associated with compliance with such regulations, and any changes to our operations that may be necessary to comply with the Dodd-Frank Act, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful in our efforts to develop a new financial guaranty company. On February 1, 2011, Radian Asset Assurance signed an agreement to purchase the FG Insurance Shell, a New York domiciled financial guaranty insurance company that has not written any business, but has obtained licenses in 36 states and the District of Columbia. The acquisition, which remains subject to regulatory approval, provides Radian Asset Assurance with the flexibility to consider using the FG Insurance Shell to pursue strategic alternatives in the public finance market, including possibly partnering with third-party investors to write new public finance insurance and/or reinsuring all or a portion of Radian Asset Assurance’s existing public finance business. We expect that any such use for the FG Insurance Shell would be consistent with our ultimate goal of reducing financial guaranty exposure at Radian Asset Assurance. We are in the early stages of exploring potential uses for the FG Insurance Shell and cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in pursuing any strategic alternatives involving the FG Insurance Shell. The successful use of the FG Insurance Shell may depend, among other things, on our ability to: (i) attract third party investors and significant amounts of additional capital, (ii) obtain high investment-grade ratings from S&P and Moody’s, which may be more difficult to obtain from S&P in light of recent proposed changes to S&P’s ratings criteria (See “Further downgrades or potential downgrades of our credit ratings or the insurance financial strength ratings assigned to any of our mortgage insurance or financial guaranty subsidiaries are possible and could weaken our competitive position and affect our financial condition” above), and (iii) obtain the necessary regulatory approvals. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 