Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Affecting Our Company We may require additional capital in light of our recent loss experience, which could worsen if general economic factors continue to deteriorate. Additional capital could dilute our existing stockholders and reduce our per-share earnings. Our business is cyclical and tends to track general economic and market conditions. Our loss experience on the mortgage and financial guaranty insurance we write is subject to general and regional economic factors that are beyond our control, many of which we cannot anticipate, including extended national or regional economic recessions, interest-rate changes or volatility, home price depreciation or appreciation, business failures, the impact of terrorist attacks or acts of war or other conflicts. Throughout 2007, we experienced increased delinquencies in our traditional mortgage insurance business, primarily driven by the poor performance of our late 2005 through 2007 vintage books of business, a lack of refinance capacity in the current mortgage market, which is forcing many borrowers into delinquency, and from home price depreciation in many parts of the U.S. If current housing market trends continue as is expected, we will experience increased credit losses in 2008 and possibly beyond. We may be required, even if only as a precaution, to seek additional capital in order to maintain our current credit and financial strength ratings in the face of such on-going losses. Deterioration of general economic conditions, such as increasing unemployment rates, higher energy costs and inflation could further negatively affect the performance of our mortgage insurance business by increasing the likelihood that borrowers will not pay their mortgages. Throughout the recent turmoil in the housing, mortgage and related credit markets, the overall U.S. economy has remained resilient; however, recent economic indices have indicated that the turmoil in the housing and mortgage markets has begun to impact the broader U.S. economy. If a recession occurs that negatively impacts economic conditions in the U.S. as a whole or in specific regions of the U.S. where our mortgage insurance is concentrated, including by increasing unemployment rates, we would likely experience significantly increased delinquencies and credit losses in our mortgage insurance business. If this were to occur, we would likely require additional capital to support our long-term liquidity needs and to protect our credit and financial strength ratings. If capital were necessary, we cannot be certain that we would be able to access capital on terms that would be acceptable to us or in an amount that would be sufficient to cover losses we may incur. In addition, the influx of new capital could have a potential dilutive effect upon our existing stockholders, including by reducing our per-share earnings. Our financial guaranty business also is impacted by adverse economic conditions due to the impact or perceived impact these conditions may have on the credit quality of municipalities, consumers and corporations. In particular, our financial guaranty business has been adversely affected by its, and the financial guaranty industry’s exposure to credit markets and residential mortgage-backed securities. See “Risks Particular to Our Financial Guaranty Business—Recent adverse developments in the mortgage and other asset-backed credit markets may continue to negatively affect our results of operations” below. An increase in our loss experience due to adverse economic factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Deterioration in regional economic factors in areas where our business is concentrated increases our losses in these areas. Our results of operations and financial condition are particularly affected by weakening economic conditions, such as depreciating home values and unemployment, in specific regions (including international markets) where our business is concentrated. Approximately 53% of our primary mortgage insurance in force is concentrated in 10 states, with the highest percentages being in Florida, California and Texas. A large percentage of our second-lien mortgage 63 Table of Contents insurance in force also is concentrated in California and Florida. During the second half of 2007, deteriorating markets in California and Florida, where non-prime and non-traditional mortgage products such as ARMs, including interest-only loans, are prevalent and where home price depreciation has been occurring, have had a significant negative impact on our mortgage insurance business results. Approximately 37% of our total increase in primary mortgage insurance loss reserves during 2007 was attributable to these states, which together represented approximately 18% of our primary mortgage insurance risk in force at December 31, 2007. During the prolonged period of home price appreciation that preceded the recent downturn in the U.S. housing market, very few mortgage delinquencies and claims were attributable to insured loans in California, despite the significant growth during this period of riskier, non-traditional mortgage products in California, such as ARM and non-prime products, including Alt-A mortgages. As a result, as mortgage credit performance in California and Florida has begun to deteriorate as is the current trend, given the size of these markets, our loss experience has been significantly affected and will continue to be negatively affected if conditions continue to deteriorate as is the current expectation. In addition to California and Florida, approximately 10.5% of our primary mortgage insurance risk in force at December 31, 2007 was concentrated in the Midwestern states of Michigan, Indiana and Ohio. This region continued to experience higher default rates in 2007 as a result of the poor economic conditions in this region that are largely attributable to the difficult operating environment facing the domestic auto industry. We expect that this trend may continue and may become worse as other previously strong sectors of the U.S. economy begin to deteriorate and exert a negative influence on the already strained economies of the Midwestern states. Our financial guaranty business also has a significant portion of its insurance in force concentrated in a small number of states, principally including California, New York, Texas, Florida and Pennsylvania, and could be affected by a weakening of economic conditions in these states. In addition to the impact of regional housing and credit market deterioration, our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted by natural disasters or other catastrophic events, acts of terrorism, conflicts, event specific economic depressions or other harmful events in the regions, including areas internationally, where our business is concentrated. A downgrade or potential downgrade of our credit ratings or the insurance financial strength ratings assigned to any of our operating subsidiaries is possible and could weaken our competitive position and affect our financial condition. The credit ratings of Radian Group Inc. and the insurance financial strength ratings assigned to our subsidiaries may be downgraded by one or more of S&P, Moody’s or Fitch if they believe that Radian Group Inc. or such subsidiary has experienced adverse developments in its business, financial condition or operating results. The rating agencies have indicated that they are engaged in on-going monitoring of the mortgage insurance and financial guaranty industries and the mortgage-backed securities market to assess the adequacy of, and where necessary refine, their capital models. The rating agencies could take action, including by downgrading or warning of the strong possibility of downgrade with respect to one or more companies in a specific industry, upon the conclusion of their respective reviews. Although we remain in frequent contact with the rating agencies and have prepared action plans to address any rating agency actions, we are generally not provided with much advance notice of an impending rating decision, which could come at any time. Determinations of ratings by the rating agencies are affected by a variety of factors, including macroeconomic conditions, economic conditions affecting the mortgage insurance and financial guaranty industries, changes in regulatory conditions, competition, underwriting, risk management assessment, investment losses, earnings volatility, the perceived need for additional capital, if necessary, and the ability to raise capital and the perceived instability in the ongoing franchise value of participants in these industries. Our ratings are critical to our ability to market our products and to maintain our competitive position and customer confidence in our products. A downgrade in these ratings, or the announcement of the potential for a 64 Table of Contents downgrade or any other concern relating to the on-going financial strength of our insurance subsidiaries, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, we may be required to raise capital in the event of a downgrade or the likelihood of a downgrade, which we may not be able to do on terms acceptable to us or in an amount that would be sufficient to restore or stabilize our ratings. Additional capital could dilute our existing stockholders and reduce our per-share earnings. Our principal operating subsidiaries had been assigned the following ratings as of the date of this report: MOODY’S MOODY’SOUTLOOK S&P S&POUTLOOK FITCH (1) FITCHOUTLOOK Radian Guaranty Aa3 (2) AA- (3) AA- (4) Radian Insurance Aa3 (2) A- (3) AA- (4) Amerin Guaranty Aa3 (2) AA- (3) AA- (4) Radian Asset Assurance Aa3 Stable AA Stable A+ Evolving Radian Asset Assurance Limited Aa3 Stable AA Stable A+ Evolving (1) Fitch continues to rate us and our subsidiaries despite our request to Fitch on September 5, 2007 that Fitch immediately withdraw all of its ratings for us and our subsidiaries. See “Business—Ratings—Fitch” above. (2) Each Moody’s rating for our mortgage insurance subsidiaries is currently under review for possible downgrade. (3) Each S&P rating for our mortgage insurance subsidiaries is currently on CreditWatch with negative implications. (4) Each Fitch rating for our mortgage insurance subsidiaries is currently Ratings Watch Negative S&P On February 26, 2008, S&P downgraded Radian Insurance to A- from AA-. Radian Insurance remains on CreditWatch with negative implications. The rating change was based on the fact that Radian Insurance is no longer considered by S&P to be a strategic entity to Radian because of our decision in 2007 to discontinue writing insurance on NIMS and second-liens, have been placed in run-off. Radian Insurance had eight active international transactions at the time of the S&P downgrade. Of these transactions, five have early termination clauses that were triggered as a result of the downgrade which allow our counterparties to terminate these transactions. On March 4, 2008, Standard Chartered Bank in Hong Kong informed us that they wished to terminate their contract with Radian Insurance, effective immediately. While we still are in the process of assessing the validity of the notice and the potential impact of termination, there is a possibility that Radian Insurance could be required to return to Standard Chartered Bank, or to transfer to another insurer, unearned premium related to this transaction. Unless extended, this transaction was expected to expire at the end of 2009. We are working closely with our counterparties under the remaining four transactions and cannot provide any assurance as to whether we will be successful in retaining this business. If these transactions also are terminated, we could be required to return, or transfer to another insurer, additional unearned premiums. On February 13, 2008, S&P took mostly unfavorable ratings actions on several U.S. mortgage insurers. These ratings actions were the result of S&P’s reassessment of its expectations for the mortgage insurance sector in light of further deterioration in both the housing markets and the performance of all types of mortgages as well as S&P’s concerns that the 2008 vintage portfolio may be unprofitable. S&P downgraded its credit rating for Radian Group Inc. from A to A- and its financial strength ratings for our mortgage insurance subsidiaries from AA to AA-. S&P placed these ratings on CreditWatch with negative implications, citing concerns with our mortgage insurance operating performance and risk management. S&P further stated that its ratings for our mortgage insurance subsidiaries could be lowered multiple notches or affirmed with a negative outlook. S&P’s recent ratings actions followed an affirmation by S&P on November 21, 2007 of its credit rating for Radian Group and its financial strength ratings for our mortgage insurance subsidiaries, in each case with a negative outlook. On November 21, 2007, S&P stated that it would lower its ratings for Radian Group Inc. and 65 Table of Contents its mortgage insurance subsidiaries one notch if the results of our mortgage insurance business failed to meet S&P’s expectations that: (1) the loss ratio for our first-lien insured mortgage portfolio (a) will compare favorably with the industry mean in both 2008 and 2009, (b) will be between 120% and 140% in 2008 and about 70% in 2009 and (2) we will maintain excellent capitalization. S&P further stated that a downgrade of one or more notches could occur if our mortgage insurance business fails to maintain its access to the flow channel of business on terms similar to its competitors. On September 25, 2007, S&P stated that its ratings for Radian Group Inc. and its mortgage insurance entities were predicated on S&P’s expectations that we will (1) generate underwriting profits in 2009 in our traditional mortgage insurance business, (2) maintain excellent capitalization, (3) strengthen our enterprise risk management capabilities, (4) narrow the disparity in the operating performance of our traditional mortgage insurance business with that of others in the industry and (5) maintain a reasonable market share in the mortgage insurance industry. S&P has continued to maintain the AA ratings on our financial guaranty subsidiaries with a stable outlook, stating that Radian Asset Assurance’s capital position and operating capabilities are largely independent of those of our mortgage insurance companies. Moody’s On January 31, 2008, Moody’s announced that the ratings of our mortgage insurance subsidiaries would remain on review for possible downgrade while it evaluated the capital adequacy of all mortgage insurers. This evaluation will be based on updated information incorporating revised expectations about performance across different loan types. In its analysis, Moody’s also will consider the changing risk and opportunities available to mortgage insurers as a result of shifting dynamics in the conforming mortgage market. On September 5, 2007, following the termination of our merger with MGIC, Moody’s placed its ratings for Radian Group Inc. and our mortgage insurance subsidiaries under review for possible downgrade, citing the deterioration in the residential mortgage market as a growing concern for the mortgage industry as a whole and for us in particular due to our exposure to NIMS and second-lien transactions. According to Moody’s, its review of our ratings will focus on the capital adequacy of our mortgage insurance franchise in light of (1) the higher losses we expect to incur on our insured portfolio, (2) the viability of our revised business strategy to focus on relationships with large lenders and traditional mortgage insurance products, (3) the extent of continued support from lenders and from the GSEs and (4) the cohesiveness and capability of our senior management team in navigating us through the current stress period. In addition, Moody’s also stated that it will also be evaluating our ability to improve the volume and credit quality of our insured portfolio with new business writings, which could serve to offset some of the earnings deterioration expected on our existing portfolio. Moody’s has continued to maintain its Aa3 ratings, with a stable outlook, on our financial guaranty subsidiaries. According to Moody’s, the affirmation of its ratings for these entities reflects their stable earnings, limited exposure to residential mortgage risk, and the diversity of their direct financial guaranty and reinsurance portfolios. Fitch On February 25, 2008, Fitch affirmed the AA- financial strength ratings of Radian Guaranty and its operational affiliates and the A- long-term issuer ratings of Radian Group, but placed these ratings on Ratings Watch Negative as compared to the previous status of negative outlook. Fitch cited growing losses and a potential capital shortfall, which, if not addressed within the next several months, could result in a one notch downgrade. 66 Table of Contents On September 5, 2007, following the termination of our merger with MGIC, Fitch downgraded the long-term debt rating of Radian Group to A- from A and the insurer financial strength ratings of all of our mortgage insurance subsidiaries to AA- from AA and revised its outlook for these entities to Negative. Additionally, Fitch downgraded the insurance financial strength ratings of our financial guaranty subsidiaries to A+ from AA and revised its outlook for these entities to Evolving. As a result of this downgrade, one reinsurance customer in our financial guaranty business had the right to recapture approximately $1.0 billion in net par outstanding insured by us. On September 25, 2007, this insurer waived its right to recapture this business, without additional cost to us. If the financial strength ratings assigned to any of our mortgage insurance subsidiaries were to fall below “Aa3” from Moody’s or the “AA-” level from S&P and Fitch, then national mortgage lenders and a large segment of the mortgage securitization market, including Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, may decide not to purchase mortgages or mortgage-backed securities insured by that subsidiary. According to Fannie Mae, if such a downgrade were to occur, Fannie Mae would evaluate the downgraded insurance subsidiary, the current market environment and Fannie Mae’s alternative sources of credit enhancement. Based on that evaluation, Fannie Mae could restrict us from conducting certain types of business with Fannie Mae or take actions that may include not purchasing loans insured by us. Both Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae have indicated that any such downgrade would no longer result in an automatic loss of eligibility for an insurer, but that the insurer would be subject to review upon the happening of such event. Any such downgrade could also negatively affect Radian Group’s ratings or the ratings of our other insurance subsidiaries, including our financial guaranty subsidiaries. Any of these events would likely significantly harm the franchise value of our mortgage insurance business. Any downgrade of the ratings assigned to our financial guaranty subsidiaries would limit the desirability of their respective direct insurance products and would reduce the value of Radian Asset Assurance’s reinsurance, even to the point where primary insurers may be unwilling to continue to cede insurance to Radian Asset Assurance at attractive rates. In addition, in the event of a downgrade, many of Radian Asset Assurance’s reinsurance agreements give the primary insurers the right to recapture business ceded to Radian Asset Assurance, and in some cases, in lieu of recapture, the right to increase commissions charged to Radian Asset Assurance if Radian Asset Assurance’s insurance financial strength rating is downgraded below specified levels. If Radian Asset Assurance was downgraded to A+ or below by S&P or A1 or below by Moody’s, up to $49.9 billion or 99.8% of our total net assumed par outstanding may be subject to recapture. A downgrade of the ratings assigned to our financial guaranty subsidiaries below certain levels (both A- and below investment grade for S&P and below A3 for Moody’s) would allow counterparties in seven of our synthetic credit default swap transactions, representing an aggregate notional amount of approximately $1.1 billion, to terminate these transactions. Upon the termination of any such transaction following a downgrade trigger, the transaction would be settled on a mark-to-market basis, meaning that if there was a loss in fair value at the time of such termination, such loss would be realized and we would be required to pay such amount to our counterparty upon termination of the transaction. Based on the fair market value of such transactions at December 31, 2007, as discussed in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we estimate that we would be required to pay the following amounts upon a termination of transactions following these specified downgrades: $2.7 million upon the termination of transactions following a downgrade by S&P below A- ; $2.9 million upon the termination of transactions following a downgrade by S&P below investment grade (BBB-); and $0.5 million upon the termination of transactions following a downgrade by Moody’s below A3. The actual amounts we could be required to pay in the event of a mark-to-market settlement following a downgrade trigger could be significantly greater than the amounts set forth above depending on market conditions at the time of termination, including if the fair values of these transactions were to deteriorate. The maximum amount that we could be required to pay on all these transactions in the aggregate is: $60.3 million in the event of a downgrade below A- by S&P; $413.5 million in the event of a downgrade below investment grade by S&P; and $8.0 million in the event of a downgrade below A3 by Moody’s. In addition, approximately 80.1% of our 177 credit default swap transactions could be terminated by counterparties upon a downgrade of Radian Asset Assurance, generally below A- by S&P, without any obligation on our part to settle the transaction at fair value. 67 Table of Contents Radian Group Inc. currently has been assigned a senior debt rating of A- (CreditWatch with negative implications) by S&P, A2 (under review for possible downgrade) by Moody’s and A- (Ratings Watch Negative) by Fitch. In addition, the trusts that have issued money market committed preferred custodial trust securities for the benefit of Radian Asset Assurance have been rated A by S&P and BBB+ (Evolving Outlook) by Fitch. Our credit ratings generally impact the interest rates that we pay on money that we borrow. A downgrade in our credit ratings could increase our cost of borrowing, which could have an adverse affect on our liquidity, financial condition and operating results. In addition, under our existing $400 credit facility, our senior debt ratings, as provided by S&P and Moody’s, may not (1) at the same time be lower than A- for S&P and A3 for Moody’s, or (2) be lower than either BBB for S&P or Baa2 for Moody’s. If this were to occur, we would be in default under our credit agreement and the lenders representing a majority of the debt under our credit agreement would have the right to terminate all commitments under the credit agreement and declare the outstanding debt due and payable. If the debt under our credit agreement were accelerated in this manner and not repaid, the holders of 10% or more of our publicly traded $250 million 7.75% Debentures due in June 2011 and the holders of 25% or more of our publicly traded $250 million 5.625% Senior Notes due in February 2013, each would have the right to accelerate the maturity of that debt. In the event the amounts due under our credit agreement or any series of our outstanding long-term debt are accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds to repay any such amounts. A prolonged period of losses could increase our subsidiaries’ risk-to-capital or leverage ratios, preventing them from writing new insurance. Rating agencies and state insurance regulators impose capital requirements on our subsidiaries. These capital requirements include risk-to-capital ratios, leverage ratios and surplus requirements that limit the amount of insurance that these subsidiaries may write. Most of the individual states limit a mortgage insurer’s risk to capital ratio to 25-to-1. At December 31, 2006, the risk-to-capital ratio of our mortgage insurance subsidiaries was 10.4-to-1. As a result of their net losses during 2007, the risk-to-capital ratio grew to 14.4-to-1 at December 31, 2007. A material reduction in the statutory capital and surplus of any of our insurance subsidiaries, whether resulting from additional underwriting or investment losses or otherwise, or a disproportionate increase in risk in force, could increase that subsidiary’s risk-to-capital ratio or leverage ratio. This in turn could limit that subsidiary’s ability to write new business or require that subsidiary to lower its ratio by obtaining capital contributions from us or another of our insurance subsidiaries or by reinsuring existing business, which may not be available to us on attractive terms or at all. If we are required to contribute capital to a subsidiary, it would adversely affect our liquidity. If the estimates we use in establishing loss reserves for our mortgage insurance or financial guaranty business are incorrect, we may be required to take unexpected charges to income and our ratings may be downgraded. We establish loss reserves in both our mortgage insurance and financial guaranty businesses to provide for the estimated cost of claims. However, because our reserves represent an estimate, these reserves may be inadequate to protect us from the full amount of claims we ultimately may have to pay. Setting our loss reserves involves significant reliance on estimates of the likelihood, magnitude and timing of anticipated losses. The models and estimates we use to establish loss reserves may prove to be inaccurate, especially during an extended economic downturn or in a period of extreme credit market volatility as has existed for most of 2007. If our estimates are inadequate, we may be required to increase our reserves, including by raising additional capital, which we may not be able to access on acceptable terms, if at all. Failure to establish adequate reserves or a requirement that we increase our reserves, including through a downgrade or warning of potential downgrade of our credit and financial strength ratings, would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, including our capital position, operating results and business prospects. In our mortgage insurance business, in accordance with GAAP, we generally do not establish reserves until we are notified that a borrower has failed to make at least two consecutive payments when due. Upon notification that two payments have been missed, we establish a loss reserve by using historical models based on a variety of loan characteristics, including the type of loan, the status of the loan as reported by the servicer of the loan, and 68 Table of Contents the area where the loan is located. We are required under GAAP to establish a premium deficiency reserve for our second-lien business, equal to the amount by which the net present value of expected future losses and expenses for this business exceeds expected future premiums and existing reserves. All of our mortgage insurance reserves are therefore based on a number of assumptions and estimates that may prove to be inaccurate. It also is difficult to estimate appropriate loss reserves for our financial guaranty business because of the nature of potential losses in that business, which are largely influenced by the particular circumstances surrounding each troubled credit, including the availability of loss mitigation, and therefore, are less capable of being evaluated based on historical assumptions or precedent. In addition, in our reinsurance business, we generally rely on information provided by the primary insurer in order to establish results. If this information is incomplete or untimely, our loss reserves may be inaccurate and could require adjustment in future periods as new or corrected information becomes available. On April 18, 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an exposure draft, “Accounting for Financial Guarantee Insurance Contracts, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 60” (“Exposure Draft”). The Exposure Draft clarifies how Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 60, “Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises” applies to financial guaranty insurance contracts and provides guidance with respect to the timing of claim liability recognition, premium recognition and the related amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, specifically for financial guaranty contracts issued by insurance companies that are not accounted for as derivative contracts under SFAS No. 133. The goal of the proposed statement is to reduce diversity in accounting by financial guaranty insurers, thereby enabling users to better understand and more readily compare insurers’ financial statements. Final guidance from the FASB regarding accounting for financial guaranty insurance is expected to be issued in 2008. If the Exposure Draft is issued as proposed, the effect on our consolidated financial statements, particularly with respect to revenue recognition and claims liability, could be material. Our success depends on our ability to assess and manage our underwriting risks. Our mortgage insurance and financial guaranty premium rates may not be adequate to cover future losses during 2008, and possibly beyond. Our mortgage insurance premiums are based upon our long-term expected risk of claims on insured loans, and take into account, among other factors, each loan’s LTV, type (e.g., prime vs. non-prime or fixed vs. variable payments), term, coverage percentage or the existence of a deductible in front of our loss position. We adjusted our underwriting standards in 2007 and are in the process of adjusting our pricing to reflect deterioration in the housing and related credit markets and our revised expectations regarding risk of claims on insured loans. Our financial guaranty premiums are based upon our expected risk of claim on the insured obligation, and take into account, among other factors, the rating and creditworthiness of the issuer and of the insured obligations, the type of insured obligation, the policy term and the structure of the transaction being insured. In addition, our premium rates take into account expected cancellation rates, operating expenses and reinsurance costs, as well as profit and capital needs and the prices that we expect our competitors to offer. We generally cannot cancel or elect not to renew the mortgage insurance or financial guaranty insurance coverage we provide, and because we generally fix premium rates for the life of a policy when issued, we cannot adjust renewal premiums or otherwise adjust premiums over the life of a policy. Therefore, even if the risk underlying many of the mortgage or financial guaranty products we have insured develops more adversely than we anticipated, national and regional economies undergo unanticipated stress, and the premiums our customers are paying for similar coverage has increased, we generally cannot increase the premium rates on this in-force business, or cancel coverage or elect not to renew coverage to mitigate the effects of adverse developments. Our premiums earned and the associated investment income on those premiums may ultimately prove to be inadequate to compensate for the losses that we may incur. An increase in the amount or frequency of claims beyond the levels contemplated by our pricing assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 69 Table of Contents Our success depends, in part, on our ability to manage risks in our investment portfolio. Our income from our investment portfolio is one of our primary sources of cash flow to support our operations and claim payments. If we underestimate our policy liabilities, or if we improperly structure our investments to meet those liabilities, we could have unexpected losses, including losses resulting from forced liquidation of investments before their maturity. Our investments and investment policies and those of our subsidiaries are subject to state insurance laws. We may be forced to change our investments or investment policies depending upon regulatory, economic and market conditions and the existing or anticipated financial condition and operating requirements, including the tax position, of our business segments. Our investment objectives may not be achieved. Although our portfolio consists mostly of highly-rated investments and complies with applicable regulatory requirements, the success of our investment activity is affected by general economic conditions, which may adversely affect the markets for interest-rate-sensitive securities, including the extent and timing of investor participation in these markets, the level and volatility of interest rates and, consequently, the value of our fixed-income securities. Volatility or illiquidity in the markets in which we directly or indirectly hold positions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. As a holding company, we depend on our subsidiaries’ ability to transfer funds to us to pay dividends and to meet our obligations. We act principally as a holding company for our insurance subsidiaries and do not have any significant operations of our own. Dividends from our subsidiaries and permitted payments to us under our expense- and tax-sharing arrangements with our subsidiaries, along with income from our investment portfolio, are our principal sources of cash to pay stockholder dividends and to meet our obligations. These obligations include our operating expenses and interest and principal payments on long-term debt and other borrowings. The payment of dividends and other distributions to us by our insurance subsidiaries is limited by insurance laws and regulations. In general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits are deemed “extraordinary” and require insurance regulatory approval. In addition, our insurance subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends to us, and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders, is subject to various conditions imposed by the rating agencies for us to maintain our ratings. If the cash we receive from our subsidiaries pursuant to dividend payment and expense- and tax-sharing arrangements is insufficient for us to fund our obligations, we may be required to seek capital by incurring additional debt, by issuing additional equity or by selling assets, which we may be unable to do on favorable terms, if at all. The need to raise additional capital or the failure to make timely payments on our obligations could have a material adverse effect on our ratings and our business, financial condition and operating results. Our reported earnings are subject to fluctuations based on changes in our credit derivatives that require us to adjust their fair market value as reflected on our income statement. Our business includes the provision of credit enhancement in the form of derivative contracts. The gains and losses on these derivative contracts are derived from internally generated models, which may differ from models used by our counterparties or others in the industry. We estimate fair value amounts using market information, to the extent available, and valuation methodologies that we deem appropriate. The gains and losses on assumed derivative contracts are provided by the primary insurance companies. Considerable judgment is required to interpret available market data to develop the estimates of fair value. Since there currently is no active market for many derivative products, we have had to use assumptions as to what could be realized in a current market exchange. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies—Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activity.” Temporary market changes as well as actual credit improvement or deterioration in these contracts are reflected in changes in fair value of derivative instruments. Because these adjustments are reflected on our income statement, they affect our reported earnings and create earnings volatility. In addition, although these mark-to-market gains and losses do not directly impair our liquidity, they have the potential to significantly affect our GAAP consolidated net worth, which must be maintained at $2.0 billion (currently $2.7 billion as of December 31, 2007) in order to avoid a default under our 70 Table of Contents credit agreement. If our GAAP consolidated net worth was to fall below $2.0 billion, we would be in default under our credit agreement and the lenders representing a majority of the debt under our credit agreement would have the right to terminate all commitments under the credit agreement and declare the outstanding debt due and payable. If the debt under our credit agreement were accelerated in this manner and not repaid, the holders of 10% or more of our publicly traded $250 million 7.75% Debentures due in June 2011 and the holders of 25% or more of our publicly traded $250 million 5.625% Senior Notes due in February 2013, each would have the right to accelerate the maturity of that debt. In the event the amounts due under our credit agreement or any series of our outstanding long-term debt are accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds to repay any such amounts. The performance of our strategic investments could harm our financial results. Part of our business involves strategic investments in other companies, and we generally do not have control over the way that these companies run their day-to-day operations. Our 21.8% equity interest in Sherman currently represents our most significant strategic investment. Sherman is a consumer asset and servicing firm specializing in charged-off and bankruptcy plan consumer assets that it generally purchases at deep discounts from national financial institutions and major retail corporations and subsequently seeks to collect. In addition, Sherman originates subprime credit card receivables through its subsidiary CreditOne and has a variety of other similar ventures related to consumer assets. Consequently, Sherman’s results could be adversely impacted by: • Sherman’s ability to obtain or renew financing, which will be required in 2008, and its ability to accomplish this on reasonable terms; • increased pricing competition for the pools of consumer assets it purchases; • macroeconomic or other factors that could diminish the success of its collection efforts on the variety of consumer assets it owns; and • the results of its credit card origination business, which are sensitive to interest-rate changes, charge-off losses and the success of its collection efforts, and which may be impacted by macroeconomic factors that affect a borrower’s ability to pay. As a result of their significant amount of collection efforts, there is a risk that Sherman could be subject to consumer related lawsuits and other investigations related to fair debt collection practices, which could have an adverse effect on Sherman’s income, reputation and future ability to conduct business. In addition, Sherman is particularly exposed to consumer credit risk as a result of its credit card origination business and unsecured lending business through CreditOne. National credit card lenders recently have reported decreased spending by card members and an increase in delinquencies and loan write-offs, indicating that the recent turmoil in the mortgage credit markets may be impacting other consumer credit markets. In addition, recent economic indices have indicated that the likelihood of a recession in the U.S. is increasing. A continuation of current economic trends could materially impact the future results of Sherman, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our international operations subject us to numerous risks. We have committed significant resources to our international operations, particularly in the European Union, Hong Kong and Australia. Accordingly, we are subject to a number of risks associated with our international business activities, including: • dependence on regulatory and third-party approvals; • changes in ratings or outlooks assigned to our foreign insurance subsidiaries by rating agencies; • challenges in attracting and retaining key foreign-based employees, customers and business partners in international markets; • foreign governments’ monetary policies and regulatory requirements; • economic downturns in targeted foreign mortgage origination markets; • interest-rate volatility in a variety of countries; 71 Table of Contents • our lack of significant institutional experience (compared to the domestic U.S. market) with foreign mortgage credit risks and foreclosure proceedings and customs; • political risk and risks of war, terrorism, civil disturbances or other events that may limit or disrupt markets; • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign regulations and laws, some of which are materially different than the regulatory and statutory requirements we face in our domestic business, and which may change unexpectedly; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and • the need to develop and market products appropriate to the various foreign markets. Any one or more of the risks listed above could limit or prohibit us from developing our international operations profitably. In addition, we may not be able to effectively manage new operations or successfully integrate them into our existing operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. We may lose business if we are unable to meet our customers’ technological demands. Participants in the mortgage insurance and financial guaranty industries rely on e-commerce and other technologies to provide and expand their products and services. Our customers generally require that we provide aspects of our products and services electronically, and the percentage of our new insurance written and claims processing that we deliver electronically has continued to increase. We expect this trend to continue and, accordingly, we may be unable to satisfy our customers’ requirements if we fail to invest sufficient resources or otherwise are unable to maintain and upgrade our technological capabilities. This may result in a decrease in the business we receive, which could impact our profitability. Our information technology systems may not be configured to process information regarding new and emerging products. Many of our information technology systems have been in place for a number of years, and many of them originally were designed to process information regarding traditional products. As new products with new features emerge, when we modify our underwriting standards as we’ve done recently or when we insure structured transactions with different features, our systems may require modification in order to recognize these features to allow us to price or bill for our insurance of these products appropriately. Our systems also may not be capable of recording, or may incorrectly record, information about these products that may be important to our risk management and other functions. In addition, our customers may encounter similar technological issues that prevent them from sending us complete information about the products or transactions that we insure. Making appropriate modifications to our systems involves inherent time lags and may require us to incur significant expenses. The inability to make necessary modifications to our systems in a timely and cost-effective manner may have adverse effects on our business, financial condition and operating results. A material weakness relating to our internal control over financial reporting could result in errors in our reported results and could have a material adverse effect on our operations and investor confidence in our business. We have determined that material weakness existed in our internal control over financial reporting at December 31, 2007. We experienced increased turnover in key positions in our accounting and finance organization as a result of our proposed, but subsequently terminated, merger with MGIC. As a result, as of December 31, 2007, we did not maintain a sufficient complement of personnel with an appropriate level of accounting knowledge, experience and training in the application of GAAP commensurate with our financial 72 Table of Contents reporting requirements. Specifically, this deficiency resulted in audit adjustments to Derivative Liabilities and Change in Fair Value of Derivative Instruments line items in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 primarily arising from insufficient (1) identification of derivative instruments; (2) review, approval and testing of complex derivative valuation models, including assumptions, data inputs and results; and (3) identification of contract terms and transactions requiring consolidation in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, related to such financial statement line items. We have been actively engaged in corrective actions to address this material weakness, including: (i) hiring in January 2008 a new corporate Controller to fill the recent vacancy in this position; (ii) hiring consultants to assist with the evaluation and application of complex accounting matters; (iii) reviewing and reorganizing our accounting organization to provide improved lines of responsibility, review and authority; and (iv) strengthening a compensation program aimed at retaining critical accounting and finance personnel. Notwithstanding these actions, we have not yet fully remedied this material weakness in our internal controls, which could result in errors in our financial or other reporting, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations on a timely basis and ultimately decrease investor confidence in our reported information. A third-party acquisition of 20% or more of our outstanding shares will trigger a “change in control” under our Equity Compensation Plan, Performance Plan and other benefit plans. A “change of control” will occur under our Equity Compensation Plan, Performance Plan and other benefit plans if an unaffiliated third-party acquires beneficial ownership of 20% or more of our outstanding shares of common stock. On February 14, 2008, Third Avenue Management LLC, an unaffiliated third-party (“Third-Avenue”), filed a Form 13G with the Securities and Exchange Commission, reporting that as of December 31, 2007, Third Avenue beneficially owned approximately 18.78% of our total common shares outstanding. If Third-Avenue or any other third-party were to acquire beneficial ownership of 20% or more of our outstanding common stock, a significant portion of the equity issued under our Equity Compensation Plan, including performance shares granted to executive officers under our Performance Plan, would become fully vested and transferable. We estimate that this would result in a pre-tax accounting charge to us of approximately $25 million to $35 million, representing an acceleration of compensation expense under SFAS No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment”. In addition, we believe the deferred vesting of our equity awards helps us retain executives and other employees, and therefore, serves as an important component of our compensation program, particularly in light of the current difficult operating environment for mortgage and financial guaranty insurers. The vesting of our outstanding equity grants could reduce their retention aspect and could result in our losing significant employees. The acquisition of 20% or more of our outstanding shares also would result in a “change of control” under agreements with our executive officers. These agreements are “double-trigger” agreements, meaning that amounts would be paid out to executives only upon the occurrence of both a “change of control” and one or more of the other triggering events specified in these agreements. Our consent is not required in order for a third-party to acquire beneficial ownership of 20% of more of our common shares, and we cannot provide any assurances as to whether this may or may not occur. We are subject to litigation risk. We face litigation risk in the ordinary course of operations, including the risk of class action lawsuits. In August and September 2007, two purported stockholder class action lawsuits, Cortese v. Radian Group Inc. and Maslar v. Radian Group Inc., were filed against us and individual defendants in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. The complaints, which are substantially similar, allege that we were aware of and failed to disclose the actual financial condition of C-BASS prior to our declaration of a material impairment to our investment in C-BASS. While it is still very early in the pleadings stage, we do not believe that these allegations have any merit; and we intend to defend this action vigorously. In addition to the above litigation, we are involved in litigation that has arisen in the normal course of our business. We are contesting the allegations in each such pending action and believe, based on current knowledge and after consultation with counsel, that the outcome of such litigation will not have a material adverse effect on 73 Table of Contents our consolidated financial position or results of operations. In the future, we cannot predict whether other actions might be brought against us. Any such proceedings could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our inability to obtain financial statements for C-BASS, in which we hold a 46% equity interest, in final form on a timely basis, could delay our ability to file timely reports with the SEC We were unable to timely file our Form 10-Q for the third quarter of 2007 because we did not receive third-quarter financial statements in final form from C-BASS, which is an unconsolidated investment of ours, before the prescribed due date for filing the Form 10-Q. In addition, we are required to file financial statements of C-BASS for the year ended December 31, 2007 as part of this Form 10-K. C-BASS’s management is expected to issue financial statements by the end of March 2008, and we expect to file an amendment to this 10-K as soon as practicable to reflect such financial statements. We are not involved in the preparation of the C-BASS financial statements and cannot provide any assurance as to whether they will be completed and, if completed, whether we will receive them in a timely manner. Because the carrying value of our investment in C-BASS has been fully written down, we do not expect that any change to the summarized C-BASS financial information will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. If there is a delay in our receipt of the C-BASS financial statements for the current period, or for any future period for which the financial statements are required, we may be unable to timely file reports with the SEC, which could make it more difficult for us to raise capital, if necessary, and satisfy our obligations under our $400 million credit facility. Under this facility, we are required to furnish financial statements to the administrative agent for the facility within certain prescribed time periods. If we fail to meet our delivery obligations on more than two occasions in any twelve month period, we would be in default under our credit agreement. Risks Particular to Our Mortgage Insurance Business A decrease in the volume of home mortgage originations could result in fewer opportunities for us to write new insurance business. Our ability to write new business depends on a steady flow of high-LTV mortgages that require our mortgage insurance. The deterioration in the credit performance of non-prime and other forms of non-conforming loans during 2007 has caused almost all lenders to substantially reduce the availability of non-prime mortgages and most other loan products that are not conforming loans, and to significantly tighten their underwriting standards. Fewer loan products and tighter loan qualifications, while improving the overall quality of new mortgage originations, have in turn reduced the pool of qualified homebuyers and made it more difficult for buyers (in particular first-time buyers) to obtain mortgage financing or to refinance their existing mortgages. In addition, the significant disruption in the subprime market has led to reduced investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities in the secondary market, which, until recently, has been an available source of funding for many mortgage lenders. This has significantly reduced liquidity in the mortgage funding marketplace, forcing many lenders to retain a larger portion of their mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities and leaving them with less capacity to continue to originate new mortgages. To date, the potential negative effect on our business from the decreased volume of mortgage originations has been offset by an increase in the demand for mortgage insurance on conforming loans as the lending industry embraces more prudent risk management measures. However, if the volume of new mortgage originations continues to decrease or persist at low levels for a prolonged period of time, we may experience fewer opportunities to write new insurance business, which could reduce our existing insurance in force and have a significant negative effect on both our ability to execute our business plans and our overall franchise value. An increase in the volume of cancellations or non-renewals of our existing policies would have a significant effect on our revenues. Most of our mortgage insurance premiums earned each month are derived from the monthly renewal of policies that we have previously written. As a result, a decrease in the length of time that our mortgage insurance 74 Table of Contents policies remain in force reduces our revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac generally permit homeowners to cancel their mortgage insurance when the principal amount of a mortgage falls below 80% of the home’s value and most private mortgage insurance must be automatically cancelled once the LTV reaches 78%. Factors that are likely to increase the number of cancellations or non-renewals of our mortgage insurance policies include: • falling mortgage interest rates (which tends to lead to increased refinancings and associated cancellations of mortgage insurance); • appreciating home values; and • changes in the mortgage insurance cancellation requirements applicable to mortgage lenders and homeowners. Ongoing deterioration in the U.S. housing market, combined with a lack of liquidity in the mortgage funding market, has significantly reduced the level of mortgage refinancings during 2007. This has contributed to an overall increase in our mortgage insurance risk in force. Because housing markets tend to be cyclical, however, we expect that we will again experience a period of home price appreciation and low-interest rates at some point in the future. If this were to occur, we would likely experience a decrease in our mortgage insurance in force, which could have a negative effect on our revenues. Because our mortgage insurance business is concentrated among a few significant customers, our revenues could decline if we lose any significant customer. Our mortgage insurance business depends to a significant degree on a small number of lending customers. Our top ten mortgage insurance customers are generally responsible for half of both our primary new insurance written in a given year and our direct primary risk in force. Accordingly, maintaining our business relationships and business volumes with our largest lending customers is critical to the success of our business. Challenging market conditions during 2007 have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the financial condition of a number of our largest lending customers. Many of these customers have experienced ratings downgrades and liquidity constraints in the face of increasing delinquencies and the lack of a secondary market for mortgage funding. These customers may become subject to serious liquidity constraints that could jeopardize the viability of their business plans or their access to additional capital, forcing them to consider alternatives such as bankruptcy or, as has occurred recently, consolidation with others in the industry. In addition, as a result of current market conditions, our largest lending customers may seek to diversify their exposure to any one or more mortgage insurers or decide to write business only with those mortgage insurers that they perceive to have the strongest financial position. The loss of business from even one of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business franchise and operating results. Our master policies and related lender agreements do not, and by law cannot, require our mortgage insurance customers to do business with us, and we cannot be certain that any loss of business from a single lender will be recouped from other lending customers in the industry. Our business depends, in part, on effective and reliable loan servicing, which may be negatively impacted by the current disruption in the mortgage credit markets. We depend on reliable, consistent third-party servicing of the loans that we insure. Dependable servicing generally ensures timely billing and better loss mitigation opportunities for delinquent or near-delinquent loans. Many of our customers also serve as the servicers for loans that we insure, whether the loans were originated by such customer or another lender. Therefore, the same market conditions affecting our customers as discussed in the prior risk factor also will affect their ability to effectively maintain their servicing operations. In addition, if current housing market trends continue or worsen, the number of delinquent mortgage loans requiring servicing could continue to increase. Managing a substantially higher volume of non-performing loans could create operational difficulties that our servicers may not have the resources to overcome. If a disruption occurs in the servicing of mortgage loans covered by our insurance policies, this, in turn, could contribute to a rise in delinquencies among those loans and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 75 Table of Contents A large portion of our mortgage insurance risk in force consists of higher risk loans, such as Alt-A and subprime loans, which have resulted in increased losses in 2007 and may result in further losses in the future. Non-Prime Loans. Until recently, we have faced significant competition for prime loan business from lenders offering alternative arrangements, such as simultaneous second mortgages. As a result, a large percentage of our mortgage insurance written during the recent past and, consequently, our mortgage insurance risk in force, is related to non-prime loans. In 2007, non-prime business accounted for $23.9 billion or 41.8% of our new primary mortgage insurance written (81% of which was Alt-A), compared to $17.5 billion or 43.7% in 2006 (80.2% of which was Alt-A) and $17.8 billion or 41.7% in 2005 (63.3% of which was Alt-A). At December 31, 2007, our non-prime mortgage insurance in force, including Alt-A, was $49.5 billion or 34.6% of our total primary insurance in force, compared to $37.0 billion or 32.5% of primary insurance in force at December 31, 2006 and $34.7 billion or 31.7% of primary insurance in force at December 31, 2005. Historically, non-prime loans are more likely to go into default and require us to pay claims than prime loans. In addition, our non-prime business, in particular Alt-A loans, tends to have larger loan balances relative to other loans, which results in larger claims. Throughout 2007, in conjunction with the disruption in the subprime market, we have experienced a significant increase in mortgage loan delinquencies related to Alt-A loans originated in 2006 and 2007. These losses have occurred more rapidly and well in excess of historical loss patterns for this product, and have contributed in large part to the significant increase in our provision for losses during the second half of 2007. If delinquency and claim rates on non-prime loans continue to increase, or if there is a further decline in the current housing market, in particular in California, Florida and other states where the Alt-A product is prevalent, our results of operations and financial condition would be negatively affected. High-LTV Mortgages. We generally provide private mortgage insurance on mortgage products that have more risk than those mortgage products that meet the GSEs’ classification of conforming loans. A portion of our mortgage insurance in force consists of insurance on mortgage loans with LTVs at origination of 97% or greater. In 2007, loans with LTVs in excess of 97% accounted for $13.1 billion or 23.0% of our new primary mortgage insurance written, compared to $5.7 billion or 14.2% in 2006. At December 31, 2007, our mortgage insurance risk in force related to these loans was $6.5 billion or 20.7% of our total primary risk in force, compared to $3.5 billion or 14.0% of primary insurance risk in force at December 31, 2006. Mortgage loans with LTVs greater than 97% default substantially more often than those with lower LTVs. In addition, when we are required to pay a claim on a higher LTV loan, it is generally more difficult to recover our costs from the underlying property, especially in areas with declining property values. Throughout 2007, we experienced a significant increase in mortgage loan delinquencies related to high-LTV mortgages. As a result, we have altered our underwriting criteria, in part, to limit our exposure to high-LTV loans in markets experiencing a decline in home values. While we believe these changes will improve our overall risk profile, in the near term, we will likely continue to be negatively affected by the performance of existing insured loans with high-LTVs. Pool Mortgage Insurance. We offer pool mortgage insurance, which exposes us to different risks than the risks applicable to primary mortgage insurance. Our pool mortgage insurance products generally cover all losses in a pool of loans up to our aggregate exposure limit, which generally is between 1% and 10% of the initial aggregate loan balance of the entire pool of loans. Under pool insurance, we could be required to pay the full amount of every loan in the pool within our exposure limits that is in default and upon which a claim is made until the aggregate limit is reached, rather than a percentage of the loan amount, as is the case with traditional primary mortgage insurance. At December 31, 2007, $3.0 billion of our mortgage insurance risk in force was attributable to pool insurance. Credit Default Swaps. We also have provided credit enhancement on residential mortgage-backed securities in the form of credit default swaps. A credit default swap is an agreement to pay our counterparty should an underlying security or the issuer of such security suffer a specified credit event, such as nonpayment, downgrade or a reduction of the principal of the security as a result of defaults in the underlying collateral. This type of insurance generally has higher claim payouts than traditional mortgage insurance products. In addition, unlike with most of our mortgage insurance and financial guaranty products, our ability to engage in loss mitigation is 76 Table of Contents generally limited. We have less experience writing these types of insurance and less performance data on this business, which could lead to greater losses than we anticipate. At December 31, 2007, we had $212 million of risk in force related to domestic credit default swaps on residential mortgage-backed securities. Credit default swaps in our mortgage insurance business are subject to derivative accounting, requiring mark-to-market valuations. As of December 31, 2007, we had a cumulative unrealized loss of approximately $84 million related to these domestic credit default swaps. We could incur additional credit losses on this business. A portion of our mortgage insurance risk in force consists of insurance on adjustable-rate products such as ARMs that have resulted in significant losses in 2007 and may result in further losses. At December 31, 2007, approximately 22% of our mortgage insurance risk in force consists of ARMs (12% of our mortgage insurance risk in force relates to ARMs with resets of less than five years from origination), which includes loans with negative amortization features, such as pay option ARMs. We consider a loan an ARM if the interest rate for that loan will reset at any point during the life of the loan. It has been our experience that ARMs with resets of less than five years from origination are more likely to result in a claim than longer-term ARMs. Our claim frequency on ARMs has been higher than on fixed-rate loans due to monthly payment increases that occur when interest rates rise or when the “teaser rate” (an initial interest rate that does not fully reflect the index which determines subsequent rates) expires. At December 31, 2007, approximately 10.5% of our primary mortgage insurance risk in force consists of interest-only mortgages, where the borrower pays only the interest charge on a mortgage for a specified period of time, usually five to ten years, after which the loan payment increases to include principal payments. Similar to ARMs, these loans have a heightened propensity to default because of possible “payment shocks” after the initial low-payment period expires and because the borrower does not automatically build equity as payments are made. A lack of liquidity in the mortgage market, tighter underwriting standards, and declining home prices in many regions in the U.S. during 2007, have combined to make it more difficult for many borrowers with ARMs and interest-only mortgages to refinance their mortgages into lower fixed rate products. As a result, without available alternatives, many borrowers have been forced into default when their interest rates reset. This has resulted in significant defaults during 2007 for mortgage lenders and insurers as well as investors in the secondary market. Approximately 34% of our total increase in mortgage insurance loss reserves during the fourth quarter of 2007 was attributable to adjustable rate products, which represented approximately 22% of our mortgage insurance risk in force at December 31, 2007. Absent a change in the current lending environment or a positive mitigating effect from recent legislation aimed at reducing defaults from adjustable rate resets (See “Business—Regulation—Federal Regulation—Indirect Regulation” above), we expect that defaults related to these products will likely continue to increase. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 2.4% of the adjustable rate mortgages we insure are scheduled to reset during 2008, with most of our option ARMs and interest-only loans having first time resets in 2009 or later. If defaults related to adjustable rate mortgages were to continue at their current pace or were to increase as is currently projected, our results of operations will continue to be negatively affected, possibly significantly, which could adversely affect our financial position and capital reserves. Our results of operations may continue to be negatively affected by NIMS and second-lien mortgages. In the past, we have written mortgage insurance on second-lien mortgages and have provided credit enhancement on NIMS. Both of these products have been particularly susceptible to the disruption in the mortgage credit markets during 2007, resulting in significant credit losses to us. As a result, we ceased writing new insurance on these products in 2007 and expect that most of this business will have run-off by 2010. Although losses with respect to our second-lien business, much like in our traditional first-lien mortgage insurance business, will be incurred and paid over time as delinquencies develop and claims are filed, the net present value of expected future losses and expenses above expected future premiums and existing reserves on our second-lien business was recorded in the third quarter of 2007 as a $155.2 million premium deficiency reserve. This deficiency was increased by $40.4 million as of December 31, 2007 as a result of further 77 Table of Contents deterioration in this insured portfolio. Because losses in our second-lien portfolio are particularly sensitive to changes in home prices, we cannot be certain that actual losses in our second-lien portfolio will not differ materially from the projections incorporated into our premium deficiency. If losses were to exceed our expectations, our future results of operations would be negatively impacted. During the third quarter of 2007, we incurred a mark-to-market loss related to NIMS of approximately $366.7 million, which increased our cumulative unrealized loss at September 30, 2007 to $432.0 million. Our cumulative unrealized loss at December 31, 2007 was $434.0 million. We face the possibility of higher claims as our mortgage insurance policies age. Historically, most claims under private mortgage insurance policies on prime loans occur during the third through fifth year after issuance of our policies, and under policies on non-prime loans during the second through fourth year after issuance of our policies. Low mortgage interest-rate environments tend to lead to increased refinancing of mortgage loans, resulting in a corresponding decrease in the average age of our mortgage insurance policies. On the other hand, increased interest rates tend to reduce mortgage refinancings and cause a greater percentage of our mortgage insurance risk in force to reach its anticipated highest claim frequency years. In addition, periods of growth in our business tend to reduce the average age of our policies. For example, the relatively recent growth of our non-prime mortgage insurance business means that a significant percentage of our insurance in force on non-prime loans has not yet reached its anticipated highest claim frequency years, although the recent disruption in the subprime credit markets has resulted in a significant acceleration of losses associated with our 2005 through 2007 non-prime insured loans. If the growth of our new business were to slow or decline, a greater percentage of our total mortgage insurance in force could reach its anticipated highest claim frequency years. A resulting increase in claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our delegated underwriting program may subject our mortgage insurance business to unanticipated claims. In our mortgage insurance business, we enter into agreements with our mortgage lender customers that commit us to insure loans using pre-established underwriting guidelines. Once we accept a lender into our delegated underwriting program, we generally insure a loan originated by that lender even if the lender does not follow our specified underwriting guidelines. Under this program, a lender could commit us to insure a material number of loans with unacceptable risk profiles before we discover the problem and terminate that lender’s delegated underwriting authority. Even if we terminate a lender’s underwriting authority, we remain at risk for any loans previously insured on our behalf by the lender before that termination. The performance of loans insured through programs of delegated underwriting has not been tested over a period of extended adverse economic conditions, meaning that the program could lead to greater losses than we anticipate. Greater than anticipated losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We face risks associated with our contract underwriting business. As part of our mortgage insurance business, we provide contract underwriting services to some of our mortgage lender customers, even with respect to loans for which we are not providing mortgage insurance. Under the terms of our contract underwriting agreements, we agree that if we make mistakes in connection with these underwriting services, the mortgage lender may, subject to certain conditions, require us to purchase the loans or issue mortgage insurance on the loans, or to indemnify the lender against future loss associated with the loans. Accordingly, we assume some credit risk and interest-rate risk in connection with providing these services. In a rising interest-rate environment, the value of loans that we are required to repurchase could decrease, and consequently, our costs of those repurchases could increase. In 2007, we underwrote $3.9 billion in principal amount of loans through contract underwriting. Depending on market conditions, a significant amount of our underwriting services may be performed by independent contractors hired by us on a temporary basis. If these independent contractors make more mistakes than we anticipate, the resulting need to provide greater than 78 Table of Contents anticipated recourse to mortgage lenders could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our loss mitigation opportunities are reduced in markets where housing values fail to appreciate or begin to decline. The amount of loss we suffer, if any, depends in part on whether the home of a borrower who has defaulted on a mortgage can be sold for an amount that will cover unpaid principal and interest on the mortgage and expenses from the sale. If a borrower defaults under our standard mortgage insurance policy, we generally have the option of paying the entire loss amount and taking title to a mortgaged property or paying our coverage percentage in full satisfaction of our obligations under the policy. In the past, we have been able to take title to the properties underlying certain defaulted loans and to sell the properties quickly at prices that have allowed us to recover some of our losses. In the current housing market, in which housing values have failed to appreciate or have begun to decline in many regions, our ability to mitigate our losses in such manner has been reduced. If housing values continue to decline, or decline more significantly and/or on a larger geographic basis, the frequency of loans going to claim could increase and our ability to mitigate our losses on defaulted mortgages may be significantly reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our mortgage insurance business faces intense competition. The U.S. mortgage insurance industry is highly dynamic and intensely competitive. Our competitors include: • other private mortgage insurers; • federal and state governmental and quasi-governmental agencies, principally the VA and the FHA, which has increased its competitive position in areas with higher home prices by streamlining its down-payment formula and reducing the premiums it charges; and • mortgage lenders that demand participation in revenue-sharing arrangements such as captive reinsurance arrangements. Governmental and quasi-governmental entities typically do not have the same capital requirements that we and other mortgage insurance companies have, and therefore, may have financial flexibility in their pricing and capacity that could put us at a competitive disadvantage. In the event that a government-owned or sponsored entity in one of our markets decides to reduce prices significantly or alter the terms and conditions of its mortgage insurance or other credit enhancement products in furtherance of social or other goals rather than a profit motive, we may be unable to compete in that market effectively, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, the intense competition we face in the mortgage insurance industry requires that we dedicate time and energy to the development and introduction of competitive new products and programs. Our inability to compete with other providers, including the timely introduction of profitable new products and programs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, in the recent past, an increasing number of alternatives to traditional private mortgage insurance developed, many of which reduced the demand for our mortgage insurance. These alternatives included: • mortgage lenders structuring mortgage originations to avoid private mortgage insurance, mostly through “80-10-10 loans” or other forms of simultaneous second loans. The use of simultaneous second loans increased significantly during recent years to become a competitive alternative to private mortgage insurance, particularly in light of (1) the potential lower monthly cost of simultaneous second loans compared to the cost of mortgage insurance in a low-interest-rate environment and (2) possible negative borrower, broker and realtor perceptions about mortgage insurance; 79 Table of Contents • investors using other forms of credit enhancement such as credit default swaps or securitizations as a partial or complete substitute for private mortgage insurance; and • mortgage lenders and other intermediaries foregoing third-party insurance coverage and retaining the full risk of loss on their high-LTV loans. As a result of the recent turmoil in the housing credit market, many of these alternatives to private mortgage insurance are no longer prevalent in the mortgage market. If market conditions were to change, however, we again would likely face significant competition from these alternatives as well as others that may develop. Because many of the mortgage loans that we insure are sold to Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, changes in their charters or business practices could significantly impact our mortgage insurance business. Freddie Mac’s and Fannie Mae’s charters generally prohibit them from purchasing any mortgage with a loan amount that exceeds 80% of the home’s value, unless that mortgage is insured by a qualified insurer or the mortgage seller retains at least a 10% participation in the loan or agrees to repurchase the loan in the event of a default. As a result, high-LTV mortgages purchased by Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae generally are insured with private mortgage insurance. Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae are the beneficiaries of the majority of our mortgage insurance policies. Changes in the charters or business practices of Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae could reduce the number of mortgages they purchase that are insured by us and consequently reduce our revenues. Some of Freddie Mac’s and Fannie Mae’s more recent programs require less insurance coverage than they historically have required, and they have the ability to further reduce coverage requirements, which could reduce demand for mortgage insurance and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae also have the ability to implement new eligibility requirements for mortgage insurers and to alter or liberalize underwriting standards on low-down-payment mortgages they purchase. We cannot predict the extent to which any new requirements may be implemented or how they may affect the operations of our mortgage insurance business, our capital requirements and our products. Further, both Freddie Mac’s and Fannie Mae’s eligibility requirements for “Type I” mortgage insurers currently require such insurers to maintain an insurer financial strength rating of AA- or Aa3 with the credit ratings agencies that customarily rate them. A downgrade below such levels could have an adverse affect on our ability to continue to do business with Freddie Mac and/or Fannie Mae. While we cannot predict if such eligibility requirements may be waived or altered by Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae in the event of such a downgrade, both Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae have indicated that loss of “Type I” mortgage insurer eligibility due to such a downgrade will no longer be automatic and will be subject to review if and when it occurs. Freddie Mac’s and Fannie Mae’s business practices may be impacted by their results of operations as well as legislative or regulatory changes governing their operations and the operations of other government-sponsored enterprises. The liquidity provided by Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae to the mortgage industry is very important to support a strong level of mortgage originations. These entities recently have reported losses as a result of deteriorating housing and credit market conditions, which could limit their ability to acquire mortgages. Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae also are currently the subject of proposed legislation that would increase regulatory oversight over them. The proposed legislation encompasses substantially all of their operations and is intended to be a comprehensive overhaul of the existing regulatory structure. In 2007, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1427, a comprehensive reform of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae oversight. No companion legislation has been introduced in the Senate as of February 2008. Although we cannot predict whether, or in what form, this legislation will be enacted, the proposed legislation could limit the growth of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, which could reduce the size of the mortgage insurance market and consequently have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. As part of the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008, U.S. Congress passed legislation that temporarily raises (until December 31, 2008) loan limits for Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae conforming loans up to a maximum of 80 Table of Contents $729,750. While we believe that this legislative change has the potential to increase the demand for private mortgage insurance by broadening the universe of loans that are subject to purchase by Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, we cannot predict with any certainty the long term impact of this change upon demand for our products, or whether this change will be made permanent by Congress. Legislation and regulatory changes and interpretations could harm our mortgage insurance business. Our business and legal liabilities may be affected by the application of federal or state consumer lending and insurance laws and regulations, or by unfavorable changes in these laws and regulations. For example, legislation has passed both Houses of the U.S. Congress to reform the FHA, which, if enacted, could provide the FHA with greater flexibility in establishing new products and increase the FHA’s competitive position against private mortgage insurers. The legislation includes increases to the maximum loan amount that the FHA can insure and establishes lower minimum downpayments. We do not know whether this proposed legislation, which has passed the House and Senate in different versions, will be enacted, and if enacted what final form the legislation will take. However, as part of the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008, Congress passed legislation that temporarily raises (until December 31, 2008) the loan limits for FHA-insured loans up to a maximum of $729,750. We cannot predict with any certainty the long term impact of this change upon demand for our products, or whether this change will be made permanent by Congress. However, any increase in the competition we face from the FHA or any other government sponsored entities could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We and other mortgage insurers have faced private lawsuits alleging, among other things, that our captive reinsurance arrangements constitute unlawful payments to mortgage lenders under the anti-referral fee provisions of RESPA. In addition, we and other mortgage insurers have been subject to inquiries from the New York Insurance Department (“NYID”) relating to our captive reinsurance arrangements. We cannot predict whether the NYID’s inquiry will lead to further inquiries, or investigations, of our captive reinsurance arrangements, or the scope, timing or outcome of the present inquiry or any other inquiry or action by the NYID or other regulators. Although we believe that all of our captive reinsurance arrangements comply with applicable legal requirements, we cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully defend against any alleged violations of RESPA or other laws. Proposed changes to the application of RESPA could harm our competitive position. HUD proposed an exemption under RESPA for lenders that, at the time a borrower submits a loan application, give the borrower a firm, guaranteed price for all the settlement services associated with the loan, commonly referred to as “bundling.” In 2004, HUD indicated its intention to abandon the proposed rule and to submit a revised proposed rule to the U.S. Congress. HUD began looking at the reform process again in 2005 and there may be a new proposed rule as early as 2008. We do not know what form, if any, the rule will take or whether it will be approved. If bundling is exempted from RESPA, mortgage lenders may have increased leverage over us, and the premiums we are able to charge for mortgage insurance could be negatively affected. Risks Particular to Our Financial Guaranty Business Recent adverse developments in the mortgage and other asset-backed credit markets may continue to negatively affect our results of operations. Our financial guaranty business is exposed to risks associated with the deterioration in the credit markets. Recently, credit spreads across most bond sectors have widened, reflecting credit erosion in U.S. residential mortgage loans, particularly to subprime borrowers, that are contained in the residential mortgage-backed securities and certain of the CDOs that we insure. In addition, credit default swap spreads on CDOs have also widened over concerns regarding the impact a general economic slowdown or recession would have on these obligations. Other asset-backed security sectors have also been affected due to concerns and preliminary indications that the credit erosion in RMBS may spread to other consumer and mortgage asset classes, including CMBS, for which we have written financial guaranty insurance. 81 Table of Contents At December 31, 2007, our insured financial guaranty portfolio included: • $1,164.6 million of net par outstanding related to non-CDO U.S. RMBS, of which $423.1 million represented our financial guaranty exposure to subprime RMBS exposure; and • Subprime RMBS exposure through three directly-insured CDOs of ABS with an aggregate net par outstanding of $752.1 million. As discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” during the third and fourth quarters of 2007, we experienced significant increases in our financial guaranty loss reserves due primarily to a reserve of $100 million, representing our entire exposure, related to one of the three CDOs of ABS that we currently insure and performance deterioration of our insured RMBS transactions. While we have sought to underwrite credits involving RMBS with levels of subordination designed to protect us from loss in the event of poor performance on the underlying collateral, we cannot be certain that such levels of subordination will protect us from future material losses in light of the significantly higher rates of delinquency, foreclosure and losses currently being observed among residential homeowners, especially subprime borrowers. Future underperformance of the collateral underlying our insured RMBS portfolios could result in: (i) additional incurred losses; (ii) an increase in fair value losses on our insured transactions; (iii) downgrades by the rating agencies of our exposures, which could require us to hold additional capital to maintain our current financial strength ratings; and (iv) fewer opportunities to write profitable business in the future. Deterioration in the credit markets in which we and other financial guarantors participate has negatively impacted our business production. Due to losses incurred by financial guarantors on their RMBS CDOs of ABS and other credit positions, and perceived instability in the franchise values and ratings of many of the financial guarantors, credit and trading spreads for all financial guarantors, including us, have widened significantly, resulting in a material reduction in the financial benefit that our credit protection provides to issuers of both public and structured finance transactions that we insure and a reduced perceived benefit to holders of insured debt from the financial guaranty insurance we provide. As a result, many transactions that would normally have been marketed with some form of financial guaranty insurance protection are either not going to market or are being sold without the benefit of financial guaranty insurance. As a result, there is significant reduction in the volume of transactions for which our financial guaranty insurance is a viable option, particularly in our structured finance business, which makes it more difficult for us to write new business in the current credit environment, and reduces the volume of transactions written by companies that cede business to us. In addition, the volume of transactions that our structured products business insures or provides credit protection for has dramatically decreased, making it unlikely that the volume of structured products transactions that we will insure in 2008 and possibly beyond will continue at historic levels. The types of transactions available for us to insure may be materially different from what has been available to us in prior years, and we may need to realign our structured finance business to meet the opportunities that are available, which we may be able to do in a profitable manner. Our financial guaranty business may subject us to significant risks from the failure of a single company, municipality or other entity whose obligations we have insured. The breadth of our financial guaranty business exposes us to potential losses in a variety of our products as a result of credit problems with one counterparty. For example, we could be exposed to an individual corporate credit risk in multiple transactions if the credit is contained in multiple portfolios of CDOs that we have insured, or if one counterparty (or its affiliates) acts as the originator or servicer of the underlying assets or loans backing any of the structured securities that we have insured. Although we track our aggregate exposure to single counterparties in our various lines of business and have established underwriting criteria to manage aggregate risk from a single counterparty, we cannot be certain that our ultimate exposure to a single counterparty will not exceed our underwriting guidelines, due to merger or otherwise, or that an event with respect to a single 82 Table of Contents counterparty will not cause a significant loss in one or more of the transactions in which we face risk to such counterparty. In addition, because we insure and reinsure municipal obligations, we can have significant exposures to individual municipal entities, directly or indirectly through explicit or implicit support of related entities. Even though we believe that the risk of a complete loss on some municipal obligations generally is lower than for corporate credits because some municipal bonds are backed by taxes or other pledged revenues, a single default by a municipality could have a significant impact on our liquidity or could result in a large or even complete loss that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our financial guaranty business is concentrated among relatively few significant customers, meaning that our revenues could decline if we lose any significant customer. Our financial guaranty business derives a significant percentage of its annual gross premiums from a small number of customers. A loss of business from even one of our significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our largest single customer in terms of premiums written for our financial guaranty business accounted for almost 21% of the premiums written by our financial guaranty business in 2007. Some of our financial guaranty products are riskier than traditional guaranties of public finance obligations. In addition to the traditional guaranties of public finance bonds, we write guaranties involving structured finance obligations that expose us to a variety of complex credit risks and indirectly to market, political and other risks beyond those that generally apply to financial guaranties of public finance obligations. We issue financial guaranties connected with certain asset-backed transactions and securitizations secured by one or a few classes of assets, such as residential mortgages, auto loans and leases, credit card receivables and other consumer assets, obligations under credit default swaps, both funded and synthetic, and in the past have issued financial guaranties covering utility mortgage bonds and multi-family housing bonds. We also have exposure to trade credit reinsurance (which is currently in run-off), which protects sellers of goods under certain circumstances against nonpayment of their accounts receivable. These guaranties expose us to the risk of buyer nonpayment, which could be triggered by many factors, including the failure of a buyer’s business. These guaranties may cover receivables where the buyer and seller are in the same country as well as cross-border receivables. In the case of cross-border transactions, we sometimes grant coverage that effectively provides coverage of losses that could result from political risks, such as foreign currency controls and expropriation, which could interfere with the payment from the buyer. Losses associated with these non-public finance financial guaranty products are difficult to predict accurately, and a failure to properly anticipate those losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may be forced to reinsure greater risks than we desire due to adverse selection by ceding companies. A portion of our financial guaranty reinsurance business is written under treaties that generally give the ceding company some ability to select the risks that they cede to us within the terms of the treaty. In current market conditions, many of our ceding companies are looking to cede a large percentage of their risks. There is a risk under these treaties that the ceding companies will decide to cede to us exposures that have higher rating agency capital charges or that the ceding companies expect to be less profitable, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We attempt to mitigate this risk in a number of ways, including requiring ceding companies to retain a specified minimum percentage on a pro-rata basis of the ceded business and to limit the types of exposures that we will allow the ceding companies to cede to us without our approval. However, we cannot be certain that these mitigation attempts will succeed in limiting the amount of less desirable exposures that are ceded to us under our treaties. Variations in credit spreads may decrease demand for our credit enhancement and reduce opportunities for us to write profitable business. Our financial guaranty business is significantly influenced by credit spreads that are set by market factors, over which we have little or no control. Our insurance generally provides value by lowering an issuer’s cost of 83 Table of Contents borrowing, by providing capital relief to an issuer or by improving on the market execution of an insured security. The difference or “credit spread” between the actual or anticipated benefit of credit enhancement, which may be influenced by a number of factors such as credit performance, the perceived financial strength of the insurer, market liquidity and an investor’s willingness to take on risk. The cost of credit enhancement relative to the “credit spread” is a significant factor in an issuer’s determination of whether to seek credit enhancement. As credit spreads tighten—or the cost of our insurance increases vis-à-vis the perceived market benefits of such insurance—the likelihood that issuers will choose to forego credit enhancement increases. This credit spread tightening can result from either a reduction in the credit spread applicable to the issuer or issuance or, as is currently occurring in the credit markets in which we participate, an increase in the credit spread applicable to our insurance due to the perceived uncertainty regarding the value of financial guaranty insurance and the franchise value of financial guarantors. As a result, notwithstanding the widening of credit spreads for issuers, we have experienced fewer opportunities to write profitable business in our financial guaranty business as well as increased competition among insurers for the limited opportunities that are available to us. If tight credit spreads continue to persist or if spreads further tighten, we may experience limited or no opportunities to write profitable business in these businesses, which would have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our financial guaranty business faces intense competition. The financial guaranty industry is highly competitive. The principal sources of direct and indirect competition are: • other financial guaranty insurance companies, including some of which that have recently been downgraded from triple-A to ratings equal to or lower than our ratings from the rating agencies, which may revise their business plans to compete more directly against us for the transactions we currently insure; • derivative products companies, some of which may have higher ratings than we do and/or may have lower capital requirements for the transactions that we insure; • multiline insurers that have increased their participation in financial guaranty reinsurance, some of which have formed strategic alliances with some of the U.S. primary financial guaranty insurers; • other forms of credit enhancement, including letters of credit, guaranties and credit default swaps provided in most cases by foreign and domestic banks and other financial institutions, some of which are governmental enterprises, that have been assigned the highest ratings awarded by one or more of the major rating agencies or have agreed to post collateral to support their risk position; • alternate transaction structures that permit issuers to securitize assets more cost-effectively without the need for credit enhancement of the types we provide; and • cash-rich investors seeking additional yield on their investments by foregoing credit enhancement. Competition in the financial guaranty reinsurance business is based on many factors, including overall financial strength, financial strength ratings, credit spreads, perceived financial strength, perceived benefit of the credit protection being provided, pricing and service. The rating agencies allow credit to a ceding company’s capital requirements and single risk limits for reinsurance that is ceded. The amount of this credit is in part determined by the financial strength rating of the reinsurer. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources than we have and are better capitalized than we are and/or have been assigned higher ratings by one or more of the major rating agencies. In addition, the rating agencies could change the level of credit they will allow a ceding company to take for amounts ceded to us and/or similarly rated reinsurers. In 2004, the laws applicable to New York-domiciled monoline financial guarantors were amended to permit them to use certain default swaps meeting applicable requirements as statutory collateral (i.e., to offset their statutory single risk limits, aggregate risk limits, aggregate net liability calculations and contingency reserve 84 Table of Contents requirements). This regulatory change, which makes credit default swaps a more attractive alternative to traditional financial guaranty reinsurance, could result in a reduced demand for traditional monoline financial guaranty reinsurance in the future. An inability to compete for desirable financial guaranty business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Legislation and regulatory changes and interpretations could harm our financial guaranty business. The laws and regulations affecting the municipal, asset-backed and trade credit debt markets, as well as other governmental regulations, may be changed in ways that subject us to additional legal liability or affect the demand for the primary financial guaranty insurance and reinsurance that we provide. Due to current market disruptions in the financial guaranty business, our regulators are reviewing the laws, rules and regulations applicable to financial guarantors. It is possible that these reviews could result in additional limitations in our ability to conduct our financial guaranty business, including additional restrictions and limitations on our ability to declare dividends or more stringent statutory capital requirements for all or certain segments of our financial guaranty businesses, restrictions and limitations on the types of obligations that we are able to insure (such as limiting the asset classes we may insure, restricting our ability to insure credit default swaps or other synthetic forms of execution or limiting the size of the transactions we may insure for a given level of capital). In addition, the New York Insurance Department and the Governor of the State of New York have proposed permitting monoline financial guaranty insurance companies to split into multiple companies based on the type of obligation each resulting company will insure in the future (e.g., public finance vs. structured finance transactions). Any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Changes in tax laws could reduce the demand for or profitability of financial guaranty insurance, which could harm our business. Any material change in the U.S. tax treatment of municipal securities, or the imposition of a “flat tax” or a national sales tax in lieu of the current federal income tax structure in the U.S., could adversely affect the market for municipal obligations and, consequently, reduce the demand for related financial guaranty insurance and reinsurance. For example, the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003, enacted in May 2003, significantly reduced the federal income tax rate for individuals on dividends and long-term capital gains. This tax change may reduce demand for municipal obligations and, in turn, may reduce the demand for financial guaranty insurance and reinsurance of these obligations by increasing the comparative yield on dividend-paying equity securities. Future potential changes in U.S. tax laws, including current efforts to eliminate the federal income tax on dividends, might also affect demand for municipal obligations and for financial guaranty insurance and reinsurance of those obligations. We may be unable to develop or sustain our financial guaranty business if we were required, but were unable, to obtain reinsurance or other forms of capital. In order to comply with regulatory, rating agency and internal capital and single risk retention limits as our financial guaranty business grows, we may in the future need access to sufficient reinsurance or other capital capacity to continue to underwrite transactions. The market for reinsurance recently has become more concentrated because several participants have exited the industry. If we are unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance or other forms of capital, we may be unable to issue new policies and grow our financial guaranty business. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 85 Table of Contents 