ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors That May Affect Our Future Results Our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the nation, the Houston metropolitan area and, to a lesser extent, that of the San Antonio and Dallas metropolitan areas. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in the market areas in which we operate. The local economic conditions of these areas have a significant impact on our commercial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions, such as inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, an outbreak of hostilities, unemployment and other factors beyond our control will impact these local economic conditions and will negatively affect the financial results of our banking operations. In addition, Houston remains largely dependent on the energy industry. A downturn in the energy industry and energy-related business could indirectly and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on an owner-operated business market. Our business development and marketing strategy primarily targets the banking and financial needs of owner-operated businesses with credit needs of under $4 million. These owner-operated businesses represent a major sector of the Houston and national economies. If general economic conditions negatively impact this economic sector in the metropolitan areas in which we operate, our results of operations and financial condition will be significantly affected. If our allowance for credit losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. We may experience significant credit losses that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the size of the allowance, we rely on our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Significant additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for credit losses and may require us to increase our provision for credit losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those we make. Any increase in our allowance or charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative affect on us. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability. We realize income primarily from the difference between interest earned on loans and securities and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, this “gap” will work against us, and our earnings may be negatively affected. We are unable to predict fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by the following factors: • inflation; • recession; • a rise in unemployment; 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • tightening money supply; • international disorder; and • instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Our asset/liability management strategy, which is designed to address the risk from changes in market interest rates and the shape of the yield curve, may not prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. We face vigorous competition from banks and other financial institutions, including savings institutions, finance companies and credit unions. A number of these banks and other financial institutions have substantially greater resources and lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of banking services. To a limited extent, we also compete with other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies and insurance companies. This competition may reduce or limit our margins on banking services, reduce our market share and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we face competition primarily from other banks in attracting, developing and retaining qualified banking professionals. We may not be able to maintain our historical growth rate which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We have initiated internal growth programs, completed various acquisitions and opened additional offices in the past few years. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth or may not even be able to grow at all. We may not be able to obtain the financing necessary to fund additional growth and may not be able to find suitable candidates for acquisition. Various factors, such as economic conditions and competition, may impede or prohibit the opening of new branch offices. Further, our inability to attract and retain experienced bankers may adversely affect our internal growth. A significant decrease in our historical rate of growth may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to complete acquisitions, and once complete, may not be able to integrate our acquisitions successfully. Our growth strategy includes our desire to acquire other financial institutions. We may not be able to complete any future acquisitions and, if completed, we may not be able to successfully integrate the operations, management, products and services of the entities we acquire. We may not realize expected cost savings or make revenue enhancements. Following each acquisition, we must expend substantial managerial, operating, financial and other resources to integrate these entities. In particular, we may be required to install and standardize adequate operational and control systems, deploy or modify equipment, implement marketing efforts in new as well as existing locations and employ and maintain qualified personnel. Our failure to successfully integrate the entities we acquire into our existing operations may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and local laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or federal or state legislation could have a substantial impact on us and our operations. Additional legislation and regulations may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect our powers, authority and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of this regulatory discretion and power may have a negative impact on us. 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 