ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors That May Affect Our Future Results Our profitability depends significantly on geographic economic conditions in the markets in which we operate. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the nation, the Houston metropolitan area and, to a lesser extent, that of the San Antonio, Dallas and Fort Worth, Texas metropolitan areas. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in the market areas in which we operate. The local economic conditions of these areas have a significant impact on our commercial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions, such as inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, an outbreak of hostilities, unemployment and other factors beyond our control will impact these local economic conditions and will negatively affect the financial results of our banking operations. In addition, Houston remains largely dependent on the energy industry. A downturn in the energy industry and energy-related business could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional charge-offs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer defaults, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Financial institutions have experienced decreased access to certain funding sources. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and stock price. Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our credit exposure is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. We rely on a small to medium-sized business market. Our business development and marketing strategy primarily targets the banking and financial needs of small to medium-sized businesses with credit needs of under $5 million. These small to medium-sized businesses 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements represent a major sector of the Houston and national economies. If general economic conditions negatively impact this economic sector in the metropolitan areas in which we operate, our results of operations and financial condition will be significantly affected. Our lending focuses on providing commercial and owner-occupied real estate loans to businesses. Because our loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and industrial, construction and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for possible loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our allowance for credit losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. We may experience significant credit losses that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the size of the allowance, we rely on our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions and make various assumptions and estimates based on our experience and evaluation. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Significant additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. Furthermore, our federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for credit losses and may require us to increase our provision for credit losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those we make. Any increase in our allowance or charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative affect on us. If our nonperforming assets increase, our earnings will suffer. At December 31, 2009, our nonperforming assets totaled approximately $119 million, or 2.42%, of total assets compared to nonperforming assets of $93.3 million, or 1.84% of total assets at December 31, 2008. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on nonaccrual loans or other real estate owned. We must reserve for probable losses, which is established through a current period charge to the provision for credit losses as well as from time to time, as appropriate, write-downs of the value of properties in our other real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to our other real estate owned. Further, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from more profitable activity. Finally, if our estimate for the recorded allowance for credit losses proves to be incorrect and our allowance is inadequate, we will have to increase the allowance accordingly and as a result our earnings may be adversely affected. If we sell any of our loans or loan portfolios, or liquidate any collateral underlying our loans, we may suffer losses and our financial condition and results of operations may be affected. We regularly evaluate certain of our individual loans and loan portfolios in the context of our ongoing assessment of our asset portfolios, and based on those evaluations we may determine to sell certain loans or loan portfolios. If we decide to sell any loans or loan portfolios, we may incur losses (and possibly material losses given current market conditions) if the sale prices we receive for such loans or loan portfolios are less than our carrying values for such loans or loan portfolios (inclusive of any allowance for credit losses). If we incur any losses as a result of any such sales, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected (and possibly materially affected). Similarly, if we are required to, or otherwise decide to liquidate the collateral 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements securing any of our real estate-related loans, or any of our other real estate owned, in a period of reduced real estate values, and the sales prices we receive for the sale of such real estate is less than the carrying value reflected on our balance sheet, we may incur losses and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability. We realize income primarily from the difference between interest earned on loans and securities and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, this “gap” will work against us, and our earnings may be negatively affected. We are unable to predict fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by the following factors: • general economic conditions including inflation, recession, or a rise in unemployment; • policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies; • tightening money supply; • international disorder; and • instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Our asset/liability management strategy, which is designed to address the risk from changes in market interest rates and the shape of the yield curve, may not prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our investment securities portfolio is subject to credit risk, market risk, and liquidity risk. Our investment securities portfolio has risks beyond our control that can significantly influence the fair value of the securities it contains. These factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency downgrades of the securities, defaults of the issuers of the securities, lack of market pricing of the securities, and continued instability in the credit markets. The current lack of market activity and the illiquidity of the securities have, in certain circumstances, required us to base our fair market valuation on unobservable inputs. Any change in current accounting principles or interpretations of these principles could impact our assessment of fair value and thus our determination of other than temporary impairment of the securities in our investment securities portfolio. If these securities are determined to be other than temporarily impaired, we would be required to write down the securities, which could adversely affect our earnings and regulatory capital ratios. We are subject to liquidity risks. Market conditions could negatively affect the level or cost of liquidity available to us, which would affect our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations, and fund asset growth and new business transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner, and without adverse consequences. Core deposits are Sterling Bank’s primary source of funding. A significant decrease in Sterling Bank’s core deposits, an inability to obtain alternative funding to the core deposits, or a substantial, unexpected, or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a negative effect on our business and financial condition. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. We face vigorous competition from banks and other financial institutions, including savings institutions, finance companies and credit unions. A number of these banks and other financial institutions have substantially greater 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements resources and lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of banking services. To a limited extent, we also compete with other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies and insurance companies. This competition may reduce or limit our margins on financial services, reduce our market share and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we face competition primarily from other banks in attracting, developing and retaining qualified banking professionals. We may not be able to maintain our historical growth rate which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We have initiated internal growth programs, completed various acquisitions and opened additional banking centers in the past few years. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth or may not even be able to grow at all. We may not be able to obtain the financing necessary to fund additional growth and may not be able to find suitable candidates for acquisition. Various factors, such as economic conditions and competition, may impede or prohibit the opening of new banking centers. Further, our inability to attract and retain experienced bankers may adversely affect our internal growth. A significant decrease in our historical rate of growth may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to complete acquisitions, and once complete, may not be able to integrate our acquisitions successfully. Our growth strategy includes our desire to acquire other financial institutions. We may not be able to complete any future acquisitions and, if completed, we may not be able to successfully integrate the operations, management, products and services of the entities we acquire. We may not realize expected cost savings or make revenue enhancements. Following each acquisition, we must expend substantial managerial, operating, financial and other resources to integrate these entities. In particular, we may be required to install and standardize adequate operational and control systems, deploy or modify equipment, implement marketing efforts in new as well as existing locations and employ and maintain qualified personnel. Our failure to successfully integrate the entities we acquire into our existing operations may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. An impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill could negatively impact our earnings and capital. Goodwill is initially recorded at fair value and is not amortized, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Given the current economic environment and conditions in the financial markets, we could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill prior to our normal annual assessment if we experience disruption in our business, unexpected significant declines in our operating results, or sustained market capitalization declines. These types of events and the resulting analyses could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future. These non-cash impairment charges could adversely affect our results of operations in future periods, and could also significantly impact certain financial ratios and limit our ability to obtain financing or raise capital in the future. A goodwill impairment charge does not adversely affect any of our regulatory capital ratios nor our tangible capital ratio. We performed an interim evaluation of our goodwill balance during the first and fourth quarters of 2009 and an annual goodwill impairment assessment as of September 30, 2009. Based on our analyses, we concluded that the fair value of our reporting units exceeded the carrying value of our assets and liabilities and, therefore, goodwill was not considered impaired at December 31, 2009. The impact of recently enacted legislation and government programs to stabilize the financial markets and of recent legislative and regulatory initiatives cannot be predicted at this time, and it may significantly impact our financial condition, operations, capital position and ability to pursue opportunities. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or federal or state legislation could have a substantial impact on us and our 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements operations. In addition, regulators have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of this regulatory discretion and power may have a negative impact on us, by imposing significant restrictions on our existing business or on our ability to develop any new business, requiring us to raise additional capital in the future, restricting or reducing our dividends or requiring us to dispose of certain assets and liabilities within a prescribed period of time. Under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”), the U.S. Treasury has the authority to, among other things, invest in financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Pursuant to this authority, the U.S. Treasury announced the TARP Capital Purchase Program, to increase the flow of credit to businesses and consumers and to support the economy. We expect that future rulemaking under the EESA and the ARRA will be forthcoming from the U.S. Treasury which could impact our operations. Congress has held hearings on implementation of the TARP Capital Purchase Program and the use of funds and may adopt further legislation impacting the Company and other financial institutions such as by changing lending practices that legislators believe led to the current economic situation. Furthermore, the U.S. Treasury is required to issue rules interpreting and implementing the executive compensation provisions of the ARRA. Although it is unclear what, if any, additional legislation will be enacted into law or rules will be issued, certain laws or rules may be enacted or imposed administratively by the U.S. Treasury that could restrict the Company’s operations or increase governmental oversight of its businesses and its corporate governance practices. The Special Inspector General for TARP has requested information from the TARP Capital Purchase Program participants, including a description of past and anticipated uses of the TARP Capital Purchase Program funds and plans for addressing executive compensation requirements under the TARP Capital Purchase Program. It is unclear at this point what the ramifications of such disclosure are or may be in the future. The recent economic and political environment has led to legislative and regulatory initiatives, both enacted and proposed, that may significantly impact the Company. For example, Congress is currently considering a variety of proposals that would make far reaching changes to the financial regulatory system and significantly affect the financial services industry, including: greater powers to regulate risk across the financial system; a new Financial Services Oversight Council chaired by the U.S. Treasury Secretary; a Consumer Financial Protection Agency; potential limits on the scope of federal preemption of state laws as applied to national banks; and changes in the regulatory agencies. Current regulatory initiatives may change certain capital levels that financial institutions are required to maintain. For example, as a result of our periodic enterprise-wide stress testing, we may be required to raise additional capital based on projected economic conditions. The risks noted above create significant uncertainty for us and the financial services industry in general. There can be no assurance as to whether or when any of the parts of the Administration’s plan or other proposals will be enacted, and if adopted, what the final initiatives will be. The legislative and regulatory initiatives could have a significant adverse impact on the financial markets generally, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced and could require us to change certain of our business practices, impose additional costs on us, limit the products that we offer, result in significant loss of revenue, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, cause business disruptions, impact the value to assets that we hold or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. The long-term impact of these initiatives on our business practices and revenues will depend upon the successful implementation of our strategies, consumer behavior, and competitors’ responses to such initiatives, all of which are difficult to predict. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 