ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors That May Affect Our Future Results Our profitability depends significantly on geographic economic conditions. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the nation, the Houston metropolitan area and, to a lesser extent, that of the San Antonio, Dallas and Fort Worth, Texas metropolitan areas. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in the market areas in which we operate. The local economic conditions of these areas have a significant impact on our commercial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions, such as inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, an outbreak of hostilities, unemployment and other factors beyond our control will impact these local economic conditions and will negatively affect the financial results of our banking operations. In addition, Houston remains largely dependent on the energy industry. A downturn in the energy industry and energy-related business could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on an owner-operated business market. Our business development and marketing strategy primarily targets the banking and financial needs of owner-operated businesses with credit needs of under $5 million. These owner-operated businesses represent a major sector of the Houston and national economies. If general economic conditions negatively impact this economic sector in the metropolitan areas in which we operate, our results of operations and financial condition will be significantly affected. This lending focuses on providing commercial and owner-occupied real estate loans to businesses. Because our loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and industrial, construction and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for possible loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our allowance for credit losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. We may experience significant credit losses that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the size of the allowance, we rely on our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Significant additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for credit losses and may require us to increase our provision for credit losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those we make. Any increase in our allowance or charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative affect on us. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability. We realize income primarily from the difference between interest earned on loans and securities and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, this “gap” will work against us, and our earnings may be negatively affected. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We are unable to predict fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by the following factors: • general economic conditions including inflation, recession, or a rise in unemployment; • policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies; • tightening money supply; • international disorder; and • instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Our asset/liability management strategy, which is designed to address the risk from changes in market interest rates and the shape of the yield curve, may not prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our investment securities portfolio is subject to credit risk, market risk, and illiquidity. Our investment securities portfolio has risks beyond our control that can significantly influence the fair value of the securities it contains. These factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency downgrades of the securities, defaults of the issuers of the securities, lack of market pricing of the securities, and continued instability in the credit markets. The current lack of market activity and the illiquidity of the securities have, in certain circumstances, required us to base our fair market valuation on unobservable inputs. Any change in current accounting principles or interpretations of these principles could impact our assessment of fair value and thus our determination of other than temporary impairment. If these securities are determined to be other than temporarily impaired, we would be required to write down the securities, which could adversely affect our earnings and regulatory capital ratios. We are subject to liquidity risks. Market conditions could negatively affect the level or cost of liquidity available to us, which would affect our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations, and fund asset growth and new business transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner, and without adverse consequences. Core deposits are Sterling Bank’s primary source of funding. A significant decrease in Sterling Bank’s core deposits, an inability to obtain alternative funding to the core deposits, or a substantial, unexpected, or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a negative effect on our business and financial condition. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. We face vigorous competition from banks and other financial institutions, including savings institutions, finance companies and credit unions. A number of these banks and other financial institutions have substantially greater resources and lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of banking services. To a limited extent, we also compete with other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies and insurance companies. This competition may reduce or limit our margins on banking services, reduce our market share and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we face competition primarily from other banks in attracting, developing and retaining qualified banking professionals. We may not be able to maintain our historical growth rate which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We have initiated internal growth programs, completed various acquisitions and opened additional banking centers in the past few years. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth or may not even be able to grow at all. We may not be able to obtain the financing necessary to fund additional growth and may not be able to find suitable candidates for acquisition. Various factors, such as economic conditions and competition, 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements may impede or prohibit the opening of new banking centers. Further, our inability to attract and retain experienced bankers may adversely affect our internal growth. A significant decrease in our historical rate of growth may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to complete acquisitions, and once complete, may not be able to integrate our acquisitions successfully. Our growth strategy includes our desire to acquire other financial institutions. We may not be able to complete any future acquisitions and, if completed, we may not be able to successfully integrate the operations, management, products and services of the entities we acquire. We may not realize expected cost savings or make revenue enhancements. Following each acquisition, we must expend substantial managerial, operating, financial and other resources to integrate these entities. In particular, we may be required to install and standardize adequate operational and control systems, deploy or modify equipment, implement marketing efforts in new as well as existing locations and employ and maintain qualified personnel. Our failure to successfully integrate the entities we acquire into our existing operations may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and local laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or federal or state legislation could have a substantial impact on us and our operations. Additional legislation and regulations may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect our powers, authority and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of this regulatory discretion and power may have a negative impact on us. Because of our participation in new programs sponsored by the U.S. Government, we are subject to certain restrictions on our business and these programs are subject to change beyond the control of the Company. We have chosen to participate in a number of new programs sponsored by the U.S. Government during the current financial and economic crisis, and in the future may elect to or be required to participate in these or other, as not yet enacted, programs. We are therefore subject to the risk that these programs may not be available in the future, or that we will be forced to participate in programs that we do not believe to be in the Company’s best interest or that of our shareholders. These programs, including the TARP Capital Purchase Program and the TLGP, contain important limitations on the conduct of our business, including limitations on dividends, repurchases of common stock, acquisitions, and executive compensation. These limitations may adversely impact the Company’s ability to attract nongovernmental capital and to recruit and retain executive management and other personnel and its ability to compete with other financial institutions. One of these programs, the TARP Capital Purchase Program, contains provisions that allow the U.S. Government to unilaterally modify any term or provision of contracts executed under the program. Because of our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program, we are subject to executive compensation restrictions that could materially affect our ability to retain and/or recruit. The ARRA includes an amendment and restatement of Section 111 of the EESA that significantly expands and strengthens executive compensation restrictions applicable to entities, including the Company, that participate in the TARP Capital Purchase Program. The ARRA also includes a number of other requirements, including but not limited to implementing a say-on-pay policy that allows for an annual non-binding shareholder vote on executive compensation and a policy related to the approval of excessive or luxury expenditures, as identified by the U.S. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Treasury, including corporate aircraft, office and facility renovations, entertainment and holiday parties and other activities or events that are not reasonable expenditures for staff development, performance incentives or similar measures in the normal course of business. The ARRA’s executive compensation restrictions generally will continue for so long as any obligation arising from the TARP Capital Purchase Program remains outstanding, other than government-held warrants. The provisions of the ARRA, and importantly the U.S. Treasury regulations that will implement the ARRA could have a material effect on our ability to recruit and retain individuals with the experience and skill necessary to manage successfully our business out of its current difficulties and during the long-term. The impact of recently enacted legislation and government programs to stabilize the financial markets cannot be predicted at this time, and such legislation is subject to change. Under the EESA, the U.S. Treasury has the authority to, among other things, invest in financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Pursuant to this authority, the U.S. Treasury announced the TARP Capital Purchase Program to increase the flow of credit to businesses and consumers and to support the economy. We expect that future rulemaking under the EESA and the ARRA will be forthcoming from the U.S. Treasury which could impact our operations. Congress has held hearings on implementation of the TARP Capital Purchase Program and the use of funds and may adopt further legislation impacting the Company and other financial institutions that have obtained funding under the TARP Capital Purchase Program or changing lending practices that legislators believe led to the current economic situation. Furthermore, the U.S. Treasury is required to issue rules interpreting and implementing the executive compensation provisions of the ARRA. Although it is unclear what, if any, additional legislation will be enacted into law or rules will be issued, certain laws or rules may be enacted or imposed administratively by the U.S. Treasury that could restrict the Company’s operations or increase governmental oversight of its businesses and its corporate governance practices. The Special Inspector General for TARP has requested information from the TARP Capital Purchase Program participants, including a description of past and anticipated uses of the TARP Capital Purchase Program funds and plans for addressing executive compensation requirements under the TARP Capital Purchase Program. It is unclear at this point what the ramifications of such disclosure are or may be in the future. In addition, there can be no assurance as to the actual impact that the TARP Capital Purchase Program, the EESA, the ARRA and their implementing regulations, or any other governmental program, will have on the financial markets generally, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the financial markets to stabilize and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition, access to funding and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 