Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents Sterling files with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are undercapitalized and face a number of challenges in the near term future. Sterling faces a number of challenges resulting from current and prior year losses driven by credit quality issues and is categorized as undercapitalized by regulatory guidelines. While Sterling’s new management is in active negotiations with several private equity investors, its stakeholders and its regulators about strategic alternatives, there can be no assurance that any of these alternatives will be implemented in a timely manner that will allow Sterling to recapitalize and grow its business. See “Recent Developments.” We may fail to raise additional capital, which may result in our filing for bankruptcy and/or our banking subsidiaries entering FDIC receivership, and our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in completing any or all of our current strategic initiatives to raise additional capital and strengthen our balance sheet. If we are unsuccessful, our ongoing financial viability would be in doubt. To reflect this uncertainty, our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm has added an explanatory paragraph in their audit opinion issued in connection with our year-end financial statements, expressing substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to successfully execute on our strategic initiatives, we expect that we would file for bankruptcy and/or the FDIC would put our subsidiary banks into receivership. See “Recent Developments” and Note 25 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” The uncertainty of our financial viability could result in a loss of access to funding sources, which would have a negative impact on our liquidity and may cause our regulators to place us in receivership before we have implemented our strategic alternatives. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale or pledging as collateral of loans and other assets could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Public perception of safety and soundness, as well as the availability of FDIC deposit insurance protection, are important to financial institutions that obtain deposits from retail, commercial and public customers. The uncertainty of our financial viability may be perceived by some customers or prospective customers to offset the protection their deposits receive through the FDIC deposit insurance fund and may negatively impact the decisions of customers who hold deposits in excess of the FDIC insurance limits. There can be no assurance that this continued uncertainty will not negatively impact Sterling’s ability to attract new deposits or that it will not result in additional deposit outflows, both of which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity. Our liquidity may also be adversely affected if the FDIC’s temporary transaction account guarantee program is not extended. The program is currently scheduled to expire on June 30, 2010. We incurred significant losses over the last five quarters, and may continue do so in the future, and we can make no assurances as to when we will be profitable. Cumulatively, since the fourth quarter of 2008, we have incurred a net loss available to common shareholders of $1.21 billion, or a loss of $23.35 per common share, primarily due to a $909.9 million provision for credit losses, a $451.3 million charge for goodwill impairment and the establishment of a $269.0 million deferred tax asset valuation allowance. In light of the current economic environment, significant additional provisions for credit losses may be necessary to supplement the allowance for loan and lease losses in the future. As a result, we may incur significant credit costs throughout 2010, which would continue to have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our common TX38 Table of Contents stock. Additional credit losses or impairment charges could cause us to incur a net loss in the future and could adversely affect the price of, and market for, our common stock. Sterling’s stock price has declined and Treasury’s letter requires that capital be raised at no more than $0.20 cents per share, which is likely to impact the price. Sterling’s stock price has declined substantially, and the requirement in the Treasury letter that capital be raised at no more than $0.20 per share is likely to significantly impact the market price in the near term. In addition, the stock price could be impacted by a variety of factors, including: uncertainty over our financial viability; actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; changes in shareholder dividend policy; recommendations by securities analysts; and news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry. Other factors include new technology used or services offered by Sterling’s competitors; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; and changes in government regulations. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as future terrorist attacks and activities, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, also could cause Sterling’s stock price to decrease regardless of its operating results. Any recapitalization would have a significant dilutive effect. Sterling is currently exploring various options for recapitalization, as a part of which it anticipates that it will need to raise at least $650 million in new capital. In connection with its plans for recapitalization, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets and the availability of those shares would have a significant dilutive effect on the market for Sterling common stock. Under all strategic alternatives under consideration, current shareholders would have no more than a minimal stake in Sterling after recapitalization. Our banking subsidiary, Sterling Savings Bank, has entered into a consent agreement with the FDIC and the WDFI, and Sterling has entered into a written agreement with the Federal Reserve. On October 9, 2009, Sterling Savings Bank consented to the issuance of the SSB Consent Agreement by the FDIC and the WDFI. Pursuant to the SSB Consent Agreement, Sterling Savings Bank is required to take certain actions, including: raising additional capital; reducing the number of nonperforming assets; reducing the number of commercial real estate and land development loans; restricting extensions of additional credit to borrowers with classified loans; implementing a liquidity and funds management policy that addresses liquidity needs and reduces reliance on non-core funding sources; restricting cash dividend payments; and complying with interest rate limitations on deposits. On December 24, 2009, Sterling entered into the Reserve Bank Agreement. This Agreement is intended to enhance Sterling’s ability to act as a source of strength to Sterling Savings Bank and Golf Savings Bank. Substantially all of the requirements of the Reserve Bank Agreement are similar to those imposed on Sterling Savings Bank by the FDIC and the WDFI, including restrictions on the payment of dividends and prohibitions on the purchase or redemption by Sterling of any shares of its stock. The requirements and restrictions of the SSB Consent Agreement and the Reserve Bank Agreement are judicially enforceable and the failure of Sterling or Sterling Savings Bank to comply with such requirements and restrictions may subject Sterling and Sterling Savings Bank to additional regulatory restrictions including: the imposition of civil monetary penalties; the issuance of directives to increase capital or enter into a strategic transaction, whether by merger or otherwise, with a third party; the appointment of a conservator or receiver for Sterling Savings Bank; the termination of insurance of deposits; the issuance of removal and prohibition orders against institution-affiliated parties; and the enforcement of such actions through injunctions or restraining orders. TX39 Table of Contents Sterling has not complied with the deadline established by the FDIC and the WDFI to raise additional capital. Pursuant to the SSB Consent Agreement, the FDIC and WDFI directed Sterling Savings Bank to increase its Tier 1 capital by at least $300 million by December 15, 2009 and thereafter maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of not less than 10%. To date, Sterling Savings Bank has not yet increased its Tier 1 capital and although it is continuing to work closely with its regulators and financial advisors in order to comply with the SSB Consent Agreement, there can be no assurance that Sterling will be successful in this regard. As a result of Sterling’s failure to comply with the SSB Consent Agreement, Sterling’s regulators may decide to impose more severe restrictions upon Sterling, including the appointment of a conservator or receiver for Sterling Savings Bank. The SSB Consent Agreement limits the types of funding sources on which we may rely and may have a negative impact on our liquidity. Pursuant to the terms of the SSB Consent Agreement, we may not accept, renew or roll over any brokered deposits, and are required to submit a plan that reduces our reliance on non-core funding sources and reduces our level of brokered deposits. The reduction in the level of brokered deposits, even according to their regular maturity dates, may have a negative impact on our liquidity within the near term. Furthermore, we are now required to provide a higher level of collateral for any funds that we borrow from the Federal Reserve, and we may be required to provide additional collateral to our other funding sources as well. Any additional collateral requirements or limitations on our ability to access additional funding sources are expected to have a negative impact on our liquidity. We may be deemed to be in default with regard to certain of our borrowing agreements as a result of the receipt of the SSB Consent Agreement and the Reserve Bank Agreement. Certain borrowing agreements that we have entered into require Sterling to remain well capitalized under regulatory requirements. Under the terms of the SSB Consent Agreement and the Reserve Bank Agreement, Sterling agreed to, among other things, a capital maintenance provision, which by definition, excluded Sterling from well capitalized status. As of December 31, 2009, Sterling has been deemed to be “undercapitalized,” which may trigger an event of default with regard to its reverse repurchase agreements. A declaration of default by the counterparties to these agreements could result in the counterparties requesting an early termination payment, which could subject Sterling to additional costs based on the fair value of the borrowings at the date of the early termination. Our estimated allowance for losses in our loan portfolio may be inadequate, which would cause our results of operations and financial condition to be adversely affected. We maintain an allowance for credit losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for credit losses charged as an expense and represents management’s best estimate of incurred losses within our existing portfolio of loans, which has been increasing in light of recent economic conditions. The level of the allowance reflects management’s estimates based upon various assumptions and judgments as to specific credit risks, evaluation of industry concentrations, loan loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan and lease losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires management to make significant estimates and judgments regarding current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. If our estimates prove to be incorrect, our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses in our loan portfolio and our expense relating to the additional provision for credit losses could increase substantially. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the adequacy of our allowance for credit losses as part of their examination process, and may require an increase in the provision for possible credit losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs. Any such increases in the allowance for credit losses may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and the value of our common stock. TX40 Table of Contents We have received a notice of noncompliance from the NASDAQ Stock Market and our common stock may be subject to delisting. On December 7, 2009, Sterling received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market (“NASDAQ”) notifying Sterling that it no longer meets NASDAQ’s continued listing requirement under Listing Rule 5450(a)(1) (the “Bid Price Rule”) because the bid price for its common stock has closed below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days. If compliance with the Bid Price Rule cannot be established prior to June 7, 2010, Sterling’s common stock will be subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Sterling may, however, be eligible for an additional grace period if it satisfies the initial listing standards (with the exception of the Bid Price Rule) for listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, and it submits a timely application to NASDAQ to transfer the listing of its common stock to the NASDAQ Capital Market. Sterling is evaluating its options following receipt of the notification and intends to take appropriate actions in order to retain the listing of its common stock on the NASDAQ stock market. There can be no assurance that Sterling will be successful at reestablishing compliance with the Bid Price Rule and a delisting from NASDAQ would have a negative impact on the value and liquidity of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets. The effects of the current economic recession have been particularly severe in our primary market areas in the Pacific Northwest and Northern California. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Montana and California. The Pacific Northwest is home to some of the nation’s highest unemployment rates and major employers in Washington, Oregon and Idaho have recently implemented substantial employee layoffs or scaled back growth plans. Severe declines in housing prices and property values have been particularly acute in our primary market areas. The State of California continues to face fiscal challenges, the long-term effects of which on California’s economy cannot be predicted. A further deterioration in the economic conditions or a prolonged delay in economic recovery in our primary market areas could result in the following consequences, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business: collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline further in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, and further reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans, loan delinquencies may increase; problem assets and foreclosures may increase; demand for our products and services may decrease; and access to low cost or noninterest bearing deposits may decrease. A large percentage of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. Continued deterioration in the real estate market or other segments of our loan portfolio would lead to additional losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 74% of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. The secured loans include construction loans which comprise 20% of our total real estate secured loans. As a result of increased levels of commercial and consumer delinquencies and declining real estate values, we have experienced increasing levels of net charge-offs and provisions for credit losses. Continued increases in commercial and consumer delinquency levels or continued declines in real estate market values would require increased net charge-offs and increases in the provision for loan and lease losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and prospects. Acts of nature, including earthquakes, floods and fires, which may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures these loans, may also have a negative impact on our financial condition. In addition, we may face risks associated with our real estate lending under various federal, state and local environmental laws that impose certain requirements on the owner or operator of a property. We have a concentration in higher risk non owner occupied commercial real estate loans. Approximately 18% of our real estate secured loans are secured by non-owner-occupied commercial real estate. Commercial real estate loans generally involve a higher degree of credit risk than residential mortgage lending due, among other TX41 Table of Contents things, to the large amounts loaned to individual borrowers. In addition, unlike residential mortgage loans, commercial real estate loans generally depend on the cash flow from the property to service the debt. Cash flow may be significantly affected by general economic conditions. Losses incurred on loans to a small number of borrowers could have a material adverse impact on our income and financial condition. Also, many of our commercial real estate borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Commercial loans may involve a higher degree of risk. Sterling’s Commercial Banking Group provides a full range of credit products to small and medium-sized businesses and to individuals, including lines of credit, receivable and inventory financing, equipment loans and owner occupied commercial real estate. At December 31, 2009, approximately 30% of our loan portfolio can be classified as commercial lending. Commercial loans generally involve a higher degree of credit risk than residential mortgage lending due, among other things, to the large amounts loaned to individual borrowers. In addition, unlike residential mortgage loans, commercial loans generally depend on the cash flow from the business to service the debt. Cash flow may be significantly affected by general economic conditions. Losses incurred on loans to a small number of borrowers could have a material adverse impact on our income and financial condition. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. A rapid change in interest rates could make it difficult to maintain our current net interest income spread and could result in reduced earnings. Our earnings are largely derived from net interest income, which is interest income earned on loans and investments, less interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the control of our management, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. With fixed rate assets (such as fixed rate loans and most investment securities) and liabilities (such as certificates of deposit), the effect on net interest income depends on the cash flows associated with the maturity of the asset or liability. Asset/liability management policies may not be successfully implemented and from time to time our risk position is not balanced. An unanticipated rapid decrease or increase in interest rates could have an adverse effect on the spreads between the interest rates earned on assets and the rates of interest paid on liabilities, and therefore on the level of net interest income. For instance, any rapid increase in interest rates in the future could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of fixed rate loans and longer-term investments. Further, substantially higher interest rates generally reduce loan demand and may result in slower loan growth than previously experienced. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Asset and Liability Management”. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of many factors, which may reduce our profitability. Our cost of funds may increase because of general economic conditions, unfavorable conditions in the capital markets, changes in interest rates, government intervention and support of competitors, government price controls, and competitive pressures. We have traditionally obtained funds principally through deposits and to a lesser extent, other borrowings, including repurchase agreements. As a general rule, deposits are a cheaper and more stable source of funds than borrowings. Checking and savings account balances and other forms of deposits can decrease when our deposit customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market or other non-depository investments, as providing superior expected returns, or seek to spread their deposits over several banks to maximize FDIC insurance coverage. Furthermore, technology and other changes have made it more convenient for bank customers to transfer funds into TX42 Table of Contents alternative investments, including products offered by other financial institutions or non-bank service providers. Additional increases in short-term interest rates could increase transfers of deposits to higher yielding deposits. Efforts and initiatives we undertake to retain and increase deposits, including deposit pricing, can increase our costs. When bank customers move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments or into higher yielding deposits, or spread their accounts over several banks, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, thus, increasing our funding costs. If, as a result of general economic conditions, market interest rates, competitive pressures, or other factors, our level of deposits decreases relative to our overall banking activities, we may need to rely more heavily on borrowings and/or wholesale funding as a source of funds, and this may negatively impact our net interest margin and subject Sterling to additional liquidity and funding risks. We may have reduced access to wholesale funding sources. As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding at acceptable interest rates. If we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs, and our profitability would be adversely affected. In addition, Sterling Savings Bank may not accept, renew or roll over any brokered deposit unless it has requested and received non-objection from the FDIC and pursuant to the SSB Consent Agreement, must eliminate its reliance on brokered deposits. Sterling Savings Bank also would be required to receive written prior approval from the FDIC as a condition to any issuance of guaranteed debt under the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. Our banking operations are subject to extensive governmental regulation and further regulatory actions against us may impair our operations or restrict our growth. We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation under federal and state laws. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect customers, depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund, rather than shareholders. Sterling Savings Bank is a Washington state-chartered commercial bank and Golf Savings Bank is a Washington state-chartered savings bank, both of which are primarily regulated by the Washington Department of Financial Institutions. Our banking subsidiaries are also subject to the supervision by and the regulations of the FDIC, and the state agencies for the states in which they conduct business. In addition, Sterling is subject to regulation and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the SEC, and subject to the listing standards of the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Statutes and regulations affecting our business may be changed at any time and the interpretation of these statutes and regulations by examining authorities may also change. Within the last several years, Congress and the President have passed and enacted significant changes to these statutes and regulations. There can be no assurance that such changes to the statutes and regulations or to their interpretation will not adversely affect our business. In addition to governmental supervision and regulation, we are subject to changes in other federal and state laws, including changes in tax laws, which could materially affect the banking industry. We are subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the WDFI. The regulators may continue to limit our activities or growth, and may impose monetary penalties, which could severely limit or end our operations. Banking laws and regulations change from time to time. Bank regulations can hinder our ability to compete with financial services companies that are not regulated in the same manner or are less regulated. Bank regulatory authorities have the authority to bring enforcement actions against banks and bank holding companies for unsafe or unsound practices in the conduct of their businesses or for violations of any law, rule or regulation, any condition imposed in writing by the appropriate bank regulatory agency or any written agreement with the authority. As discussed above, Sterling Savings Bank consented to the issuance of the SSB Consent Agreement and Sterling has entered into a written agreement with the Federal Reserve. These and other regulatory actions may have a material TX43 Table of Contents adverse effect on our ability to operate our bank subsidiaries and execute our recapitalization strategies. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected and may continue to have an adverse effect on our industry. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing unprecedented volatility and disruption for more than two years. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past two years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have had a negative impact on the performance of mortgage loans and have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: Ÿ We expect to face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Ÿ Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behaviors. Ÿ The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our loan portfolio requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation and may, in turn, have a negative impact on the reliability of the process. Ÿ We will be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. Ÿ There may be additional downward pressure on our stock price. Ÿ Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions and government sponsored entities. Ÿ We may face increased competition due to intensified consolidation of the financial services industry. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Sterling has deferred regularly scheduled interest payments on its outstanding junior subordinated notes relating to its trust preferred securities (collectively, the “TruPS”) and may be deemed to be in default on the TruPS if payment is not made prior to the end of the deferral period. During the third quarter of 2009, Sterling began deferring regularly scheduled interest payments on its outstanding junior subordinated notes relating to its TruPS. Under the terms of the junior subordinated notes and the trust documents, Sterling is allowed to defer payments of interest on TX44 Table of Contents the notes for up to 20 consecutive quarterly periods without default. During the deferral period, the respective trusts will likewise suspend the declaration and payment of dividends on the trust preferred securities. Also during the deferral period, Sterling generally may not pay cash dividends on or repurchase its common stock or preferred stock, including the preferred stock issued by Sterling to the U.S. Treasury under the TARP Capital Purchase Program. If Sterling fails to bring the deferred payments current prior to the end of the deferral period, then Sterling may be deemed to be in default under the terms of the notes and subject to various penalties, including seizure of the collateral that secures the TruPS notes. Sterling may be required to bring its deferred TruPS payments current in order repurchase some or all of its outstanding TruPS obligations and/or may be unable to complete its tender offer for the TruPS. In February 2010, Sterling commenced a tender offer to the holders of Sterling’s TruPS, seeking to repurchase the TruPS at a significant discount to the principal amount of the TruPS. Sterling’s tender offer is conditioned on receipt of consent from the holders of the TruPS sufficient to approve the proposed transactions, including the removal or waiver of covenants that prohibit Sterling from purchasing any series of TruPS while other series of TruPS are in deferral. If some holders of the TruPS accept the offer but the amendments described above are not approved with respect to one or more series of TruPS, then subject to approval by banking regulators, Sterling may be required to pay the accrued interest due under the indentures underlying those series of TruPS in order to address restrictions on repurchases during interest deferral periods. There can be no assurance that Sterling’s regulators will permit such a payment, nor can there be any assurance that the payment of accrued payments or the failure of Sterling to successfully complete the tender offer for the TruPS will not have a material adverse effect on Sterling’s capital position. Sterling may realize losses on its investment securities in future periods if management decides not to hold the investments to recovery, there is a change in management’s or the rating agencies’ assessment of credit risk on individual securities, or a change in regulatory or accounting requirements. As of December 31, 2009, Sterling held positions in classes of securities considered impaired because their fair value was less than their amortized cost basis. These securities included a single-issuer trust preferred security with an amortized cost of $24.7 million compared with an $18.8 million market value, and private label collateralized mortgage obligations with an aggregate amortized cost of $163.3 million compared with a $155.2 million market value. All are stress-tested monthly for both credit quality and collateral strength, and are investment grade according to at least one rating agency. Subsequent to December 31, 2009, S&P downgraded one of these securities below investment grade, while Moody’s maintained its investment grade rating on the same security. At December 31, 2009, this security had an amortized cost of $17.4 million and a market value of $15.3 million. Although Sterling has no intent to sell the securities and it is not more likely than not that Sterling will be required to sell the securities before their anticipated recovery, there is no assurance that events may not occur where Sterling would choose to or may be required to sell the securities. If Sterling chooses to or is required to sell these investments before a recovery of the entire cost basis of the securities, then Sterling may recognize a loss on the securities. As a bank holding company that conducts substantially all of our operations through our banking subsidiaries, Sterling Savings Bank and Golf Savings Bank, our ability to pay dividends, repurchase our shares or to repay our indebtedness depends upon liquid assets held by the holding company and the results of operations of our subsidiaries. Sterling is a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries and it receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends paid from our banking subsidiaries. There are legal limitations on the extent to which our banking subsidiaries may extend TX45 Table of Contents credit, pay dividends or otherwise supply funds to, or engage in transactions with, us. Our continued inability to receive dividends from our banking subsidiaries would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our net income depends primarily upon our banking subsidiaries’ net interest income, which is the income that remains after deducting from total income generated by earning assets the expense attributable to the acquisition of the funds required to support earning assets (primarily interest paid on deposits). The amount of interest income is dependent on many factors including the volume of earning assets, the general level of interest rates, the dynamics of changes in interest rates and the levels of nonperforming loans. All of those factors affect our banking subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends to the holding company. Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends our banking subsidiaries can pay to us without regulatory approval. Our banking subsidiaries may not pay cash dividends if that payment could reduce the amount of its capital below that necessary to meet the “adequately capitalized” level in accordance with regulatory capital requirements. It is also possible that, depending upon the financial condition of our banking subsidiaries and other factors, regulatory authorities could assert that payment of dividends or other payments, including payments to us, is an unsafe or unsound practice. Under Washington law, our banking subsidiaries may make a distribution, including payment of dividends, only if, after giving effect to the distribution, in the judgment of the board of directors: (a) the corporation would be able to pay its debts as they become due in the usual course of business; and (b) the corporation’s total assets would at least equal the sum of its total liabilities plus, unless the articles of incorporation permit otherwise, the amount that would be needed if the corporation were to be dissolved at the time of the distribution to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of shareholders whose preferential rights are superior to those receiving the distribution. Under the SSB Consent Agreement, Sterling Savings Bank is currently required to obtain the prior written consent of the FDIC and the WDFI before paying any cash dividend or any other form of payment or distribution representing a reduction of capital. Under our written agreement with the Reserve Bank, Sterling is required to obtain Reserve Bank approval before taking dividends from Sterling Savings Bank or Golf Savings Bank. Emergency measures designed to stabilize the U.S. financial markets are beginning to wind down. Since mid-2008, a host of government actions have been implemented in response to the financial crisis and the recession. Some of the programs are beginning to expire and the impact of the wind-down of these programs on the financial sector and on the nascent economic recovery is unknown. As government support schemes are cancelled, changed or withdrawn, there is a possibility that Sterling, in common with other financial institutions, may have insufficient access to, or incur higher costs associated with, funding alternatives, which could have a material adverse effect on Sterling’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In particular, the termination of the TAG program on June 30, 2010 could adversely affect us, especially in light of the concerns about our financial viability. In addition, a stall in the economic recovery or continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could exacerbate these effects. We are currently precluded from making any dividend payments on our common stock. On August 19, 2009, Sterling announced the deferral of dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock and we are therefore currently restricted from paying dividends on our common stock. Failure to pay dividends on the Series A Preferrred Stock for six dividend periods would trigger preferred shareholder board appointment rights. Even if we were to bring our preferred dividend payments current, as long as the Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding, our payment of common stock dividends would be limited to $0.10 per common share, the amount we paid prior to October 14, 2008, unless Treasury were to consent to a higher amount. We are also currently prohibited from paying any dividends pursuant to the SSB Consent Agreement from the FDIC and the Reserve Bank Agreement. There can be no assurance as to when or if we will be able to pay dividends on our common stock. TX46 Table of Contents Because of our participation in TARP, we are subject to restrictions on compensation paid to our executives. Pursuant to the terms of the TARP CPP, we adopted certain standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the U.S. Treasury holds an investment in us. These standards generally apply to our five most highly compensated senior executive officers, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, and certain of these restrictions also apply to our ten most highly compensated senior executives. The standards include, among other things: Ÿ ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the financial institution; Ÿ a required clawback of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive officer or one of the next twenty most highly compensated employees based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate; Ÿ a prohibition on making golden parachute payments to senior executive officers; Ÿ an agreement not to deduct for tax purposes annual compensation in excess of $500,000 for each senior executive officer; and Ÿ limitations on bonuses and incentive compensation. In particular, the change to the deductibility limit on executive compensation may increase the overall cost of our compensation programs in future periods and may make it more difficult to attract suitable candidates to serve as executive officers. Sterling may not be able to replace key members of management or attract and retain qualified relationship managers in the future. Sterling depends on the services of existing management to carry out its business and investment strategies. In order for Sterling to implement its strategy to emphasize relationship banking, it will need to continue to attract and retain additional management and other qualified staff. Competition for such personnel is significant in Sterling’s geographic market areas. The loss of the services of any management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial conditions and prospects. Because of our participation in TARP, we are subject to restrictions on our ability to repurchase our shares. Because of our participation in TARP, our ability to repurchase our shares is restricted. The U.S. Treasury’s consent generally is required for us to make any stock repurchase until the third anniversary of the investment by the U.S. Treasury unless all of the Series A Preferred Stock has been redeemed or transferred. Further, common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares may not be repurchased if we are in arrears on the Series A Preferred Stock dividends. On August 19, 2009, Sterling announced the deferral of dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock and we are therefore currently restricted from repurchasing our shares. The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation. The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation, which is undergoing major changes. As a financial institution, Sterling is subject to laws, regulations, administrative actions and policies that govern financial institutions in each location in which it operates. In 2009, as many emergency government programs slowed or wound down, global regulatory and legislative focus generally moved to a second phase of broader reform and a restructuring of financial institution regulation. Legislators and regulators in the United States are currently considering a wide range of proposals that, if enacted, could result in major changes to the way banking operations are regulated. Some of these major changes may take effect as early as 2010, and could materially impact the profitability of our business, the value of assets we hold or the collateral available for our loans, require changes to business practices or force us to TX47 Table of Contents discontinue businesses and expose us to additional costs, taxes, liabilities, enforcement actions and reputational risk. Certain reform proposals under consideration could result in Sterling becoming subject to stricter capital requirements and leverage limits, and could also affect the scope, coverage, or calculation of capital, all of which could require us to reduce business levels or to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely impact our creditors. In addition, we anticipate the enactment of certain reform proposals under consideration that would introduce stricter substantive standards, oversight and enforcement of rules governing consumer financial products and services, with particular emphasis on retail extensions of credit and other consumer-directed financial products or services including an impact on mortgage modifications and foreclosures. The financial services industry is highly competitive. We face pricing competition for loans and deposits. We also face competition with respect to customer convenience, product lines, accessibility of service and service capabilities. Our most direct competition comes from other banks, brokerages, mortgage companies and savings institutions. We also face competition from credit unions, government-sponsored enterprises, mutual fund companies, insurance companies and other non-bank businesses. A number of these banks and other financial institutions are significantly larger than we are and have substantially greater access to capital and other resources, as well as larger lending limits and branch systems, and offer a wider array of banking services. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us. As a result, these non-bank competitors have advantages over us in providing certain services. This significant competition in attracting and retaining deposits and making loans as well as in providing other financial services throughout our market area may have an adverse impact on future earnings and growth. The value of the securities in our investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by continued disruptions in securities markets. The market for some of the investment securities held in our portfolio has become extremely volatile over the past two years. Volatile market conditions may detrimentally affect the value of these securities, such as through reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other-than-temporary or permanent impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels. A substantial decline in the value of our FHLB common stock may result in an other-than-temporary impairment charge. We own common stock of the FHLB in order to qualify for membership in the FHLB system, which enables us to borrow funds under the FHLB advance program. The carrying value of our FHLB common stock was approximately $100.7 million as of December 31, 2009, the majority of which was with the FHLB of Seattle. The FHLB Seattle has experienced losses from credit-related charges associated with projected losses on their investments in private-label mortgage-backed securities, and is currently unable to repurchase or redeem capital stock or to pay dividends. Consequently, for this and other reasons, there is a risk that our investment in common stock of the FHLB could be deemed other than temporarily impaired at some time in the future, which would adversely affect our earnings and the value of, or market for, our common stock. Current and future increases in FDIC insurance premiums, including the FDIC special assessment imposed on all FDIC-insured institutions, will decrease our earnings. In May 2009, the FDIC announced that it had voted to levy a special assessment on insured institutions in order to facilitate the rebuilding of the Deposit Insurance Fund. The assessment is equal to five basis points of Sterling’s total assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. This represents a charge of approximately $5.6 million, which was included in noninterest expense during the second quarter of 2009. On September 29, 2009, the FDIC voted to adopt an increase in the risk-based assessment rate effective beginning January 1, 2011, by three-basis points. The FDIC will continue to assess the need for TX48 Table of Contents changes to the assessment rates at least semi-annually. Any such future increases in assessments will decrease our earnings and could have a material adverse effect on the value of, or market for, our common stock. Our business is highly reliant on technology and our ability to manage the operational risks associated with technology. We depend on internal and outsourced technology to support all aspects of our business operations. Interruption or failure of these systems creates a risk of business loss such as civil fines or damage claims from privacy breaches and adverse customer experience. Risk management programs are expensive to maintain and will not protect Sterling from all risks associated with maintaining the security of customer information, proprietary data, external and internal intrusions, disaster recovery and failures in the controls used by vendors. Changes in accounting standards may have a material impact on how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can have a material impact on how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a restatement of prior period financial statements. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans in some circumstances, which could harm our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. When we sell mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. Our whole loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event we breach any of these representations or warranties. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default of the borrower on a mortgage loan. Likewise, we are required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. The remedies available to us against the originating broker or correspondent may not be as broad as the remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans against us, and we face the further risk that the originating broker or correspondent may not have the financial capacity to perform remedies that otherwise may be available to us. Therefore, if a purchaser enforces its remedies against us, we may not be able to recover our losses from the originating broker or correspondent. If repurchase and indemnity demands increase, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Sterling operations could be interrupted if its third-party service providers experience difficulty, terminate their services or fail to comply with banking regulations. Sterling depends, and will continue to depend, to a significant extent, on a number of relationships with third-party service providers. Specifically, Sterling receives core systems processing, essential web hosting and other Internet systems and deposit and other processing services from third-party service providers. If these third-party service providers experience difficulties or terminate their services and Sterling is unable to replace them with other service providers, its operations could be interrupted. If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Sterling’s internal control systems could fail to detect certain events. Sterling is subject to certain operations risks, including but not limited to data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. Sterling maintains a system of internal controls to mitigate against such occurrences and maintain insurance coverage for such risks, but should such an event occur that is not prevented or detected by TX49 Table of Contents Sterling’s internal controls, uninsured or in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on its business, financial condition or results of operations. The network and computer systems on which Sterling depends could fail or experience a security breach. Sterling’s computer systems could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Because Sterling conducts part of its business over the Internet and outsources several critical functions to third parties, operations will depend on the ability, as well as that of third-party service providers, to protect computer systems and network infrastructure against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, physical break-ins or similar catastrophic events. Any damage or failure that causes interruptions in operations could have a material adverse effect on business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a significant barrier to online financial transactions is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Sterling’s Internet banking system relies on encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms its third-party service providers use to protect customer transaction data. If any such compromise of security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on Sterling’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Sterling could be held responsible for environmental liabilities of properties acquired through foreclosure. If Sterling is forced to foreclose on a defaulted mortgage loan to recover its investment, it may be subject to environmental liabilities related to the underlying real property. Hazardous substances or wastes, contaminants, pollutants or sources thereof may be discovered on properties during its ownership or after a sale to a third party. The amount of environmental liability could exceed the value of real property. There can be no assurance that Sterling would not be fully liable for the entire cost of any removal and clean-up on an acquired property, that the cost of removal and clean-up would not exceed the value of the property, or that costs could be recovered from any third party. In addition, Sterling may find it difficult or impossible to sell the property prior to or following any environmental remediation. We are currently subject to certain pending shareholder litigation and may be subject to similar claims in the future. A securities class action lawsuit has been filed against Sterling and certain of our current and former officers alleging that the defendants violated sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and SEC Rule 10b-5 by making false and misleading statements concerning our business and financial results. A shareholder derivative suit also has been filed against certain of our current and former officers and directors, and Sterling as a nominal defendant, alleging breaches of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets, and unjust enrichment. Class actions also have been filed against Sterling and certain of our current and former officers and directors alleging violations of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”), by breaching their fiduciary duties to participants in the Sterling Savings Bank Employee Savings and Investment Plan and Trust. These lawsuits are all premised on similar allegations that: 1) the defendants failed to adequately disclose the extent of Sterling’s delinquent commercial real estate, construction and land development loans, properly record losses for impaired loans, properly reserve for loan losses, and properly account for our goodwill and deferred tax assets, thereby causing Sterling’s stock price to be artificially inflated during the purported class period; or 2) failed to prevent Sterling from issuing improper financial statements, maintain a sufficient allowance for loan and lease losses, and establish effective credit risk management and oversight mechanisms. It is possible that additional suits will be filed with respect to these same matters and also naming Sterling and/or our current and former officers and directors. We cannot predict the outcome of any of these lawsuits. These lawsuits could divert the attention and resources of our management and cause Sterling to incur significant expenses for legal fees and TX50 Table of Contents costs, including those associated with Sterling’s advancement of fees and costs on behalf of our current and former officers and directors. Since the legal responsibility and financial impact with respect to these lawsuits and claims, if any, cannot currently be ascertained, we have not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to the lawsuits. An unfavorable outcome in these lawsuits could result in the payment of substantial damages in connection with a settlement or judgment and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 