Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Certain Factors That May Affect Future Results Economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company. The Company’s operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses may continue to postpone spending in response to tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on demand for the Company’s products and services. These and other economic factors could materially adversely affect demand for the Company’s products and services and on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions could also increase the volatility of the Company’s stock price. Our future results could be harmed by economic, political, geographic, regulatory and other specific risks associated with our international operations. The Company believes that any future growth of the Company will be dependent, in part, upon the Company’s ability to maintain and increase revenues in its existing and emerging international markets, including Asia and Latin America. During the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, 31.5%, 32.6% and 39.8%, respectively, of total Company revenues were generated by the Company’s international operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will maintain or expand its international sales. If the revenues that the Company generates from foreign activities are inadequate to offset the expense of maintaining foreign offices and activities, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The international reach of the Company’s businesses could also subject the Company and its results of operations to unexpected, uncontrollable and rapidly changing economic and political conditions. Specifically, our international sales and operations are subject to inherent risks, including: • Differing intellectual property and labor laws; • Lack of experience in a particular geographic market; • Different and changing regulatory requirements in various countries and regions; • Tariffs and other barriers, including import and export requirements and taxes on subsidiary operations; • Fluctuating exchange rates and currency controls; • Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales and support operations; • Longer accounts receivable payment cycles; • Potentially adverse tax consequences, including repatriation of earnings; • Development and support of localized and translated products; • Lack of acceptance of localized products or the Company in foreign countries; • Shortage of skilled personnel required for local operations; and • Perceived health risks (e.g. swine flu), natural disasters or terrorist risks which impact a geographic region and business operations therein. Any one of these factors or a combination of them could materially and adversely affect the Company’s future international sales and, consequently, the Company’s business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. A portion of the Company’s revenues from sales to foreign entities, including foreign governments, has been in the form of foreign currencies. While the Company does enter into hedges and other similar foreign currency contracts from time to time, there can be no assurance that such activities will effectively minimize the impact that fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies may have on the Company. Specifically, during 2009, foreign currency transaction losses totaled $0.5 million. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies have in the past and could continue to adversely impact the profitability of the Company’s foreign operations. 23 Table of Contents We have a significant amount of debt in connection with our convertible senior note offering in 2007 and borrowings under our 2007 credit agreement. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $230 million of outstanding debt related to our convertible note offering. In addition, in February 2008, we borrowed $160 million under our Credit Agreement dated December 16, 2007, as amended, of which $67.5 million is outstanding at December 31, 2009, to finance the acquisition of NSB and to pay certain fees and expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under our outstanding liabilities. This level of debt could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: • Making it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations under our outstanding debt; • Resulting in an event of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our credit agreements, which event of default could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable and, in the case of an event of default under our secured debt, such as our senior secured credit facility, could permit the lenders to foreclose on our assets securing that debt. For example, we have failed to meet the financial covenants in our credit agreement once and have been forced to seek a waiver or amendment by paying a penalty to prevent an event of default. Although we recently amended the financial covenants in a manner favorable to us, if we are unable to satisfy these amended financial covenants in the future, amendments or waivers to the credit agreement may not be available on reasonable terms or at all, which may result in an event of default and acceleration of the debt, which we may be unable to pay; • Reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; • Subjecting us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases on any indebtedness with variable interest rates; • Limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy; and • Placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged. Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under our outstanding liabilities. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may negatively impact the financial results of the Company. The results of operations or financial condition of the Company may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company operates throughout the world through international sales subsidiaries, networks of exclusive third party distributors, and non-exclusive dealers. As a result, certain sales and related expenses are denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar. The Company’s results of operations may fluctuate due to exchange rate fluctuation between the United States dollar and other currencies because our financial results are reported on a consolidated basis in United States dollars and through the use of foreign currency denominated loans available under the Company’s credit facility. In an effort to minimize operation fluctuations due to currency movements, we may attempt to limit foreign exchange exposure through operational strategies (e.g. natural hedges, netting, leading and lagging of accounts payables and account receivables) to offset the effects of exchange rate changes. In addition, the Company may enter into forward currency contracts and purchase options contracts to mitigate unfavorable impacts to our non-operating income. The continued future success of our Epicor product could materially impact our ability to successfully grow our business. Epicor, our next generation ERP software product, became generally available during the fourth quarter of 2008. Based on results to date, we expect Epicor to continue to be the ERP solution of choice for the focused vertical markets we serve and to provide near and long-term opportunities for license growth acceleration into current and new markets we plan to address, as well as generate migration and upgrade license sale opportunities into our installed base of customers worldwide. If we are not able to continue to successfully market and license Epicor in 24 Table of Contents the future, it may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we operate in a highly competitive segment of the software industry and if our competitors develop more successful products or services, our revenue and profitability will most likely decline. If the emerging and current technologies and platforms of Microsoft Corporation and others upon which the Company builds its products do not gain or retain broad market acceptance, or if we fail to develop and introduce in a timely manner new products and services compatible with such emerging technologies, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. The Company’s software products are built and depend upon several underlying and evolving relational database management system (“RDBMS”) platforms such as Microsoft SQL Server, Progress and Rocket U2. To date, the standards and technologies that the Company has chosen to develop its products upon have proven to be popular and have gained broad industry acceptance. However, the market for the Company’s software products is subject to ongoing rapid technological developments, quickly evolving industry standards and rapid changes in customer requirements, and there may be existing or future technologies and platforms that achieve industry standard status, which are not compatible with our products. Additionally, because the Company’s products rely significantly upon popular existing user interfaces to third party business applications, the Company must forecast which user interfaces will be or will remain popular in the future. For example, the Company believes the Internet has and continues to transform the way businesses operate and the software requirements of customers, who are increasingly shifting towards Web-based applications and away from server-based applications. Specifically, the Company believes that customers desire business software applications that enable a customer to engage in commerce or service over the Internet. The Company is proceeding on its previously announced determination to continue with development of several of its primary product lines upon the Microsoft .NET technology. If the Company cannot continue to develop such .NET compatible products in time to effectively bring them to market, or if .NET does not continue to be a widely accepted industry standard, or if customers adopt competitors’ products when they shift to Web-based applications, the ability of the Company’s products to interface with popular third party applications will be negatively impacted and the Company’s competitive position, operating results and revenues could be adversely affected. New software technologies could cause us to alter our business model resulting in adverse effects on our operating results. Development of new technologies may also cause the Company to change how it licenses or prices its products, which may adversely impact the Company’s revenues and operating results. Emerging licensing models include Software as a Service (SaaS), hosting and subscription-based licensing, in which the licensee essentially rents software for a defined period of time, as opposed to the current perpetual license model. While the Company does currently offer a hosted model as well as a SaaS model to its NSB retail customers, and to a limited extent, its enterprise customers, it has to date chosen not to offer a subscription-based model. The Company’s future business, operating results and financial condition will depend on its ability to effectively train its sales force to sell an integrated comprehensive set of business software products and recognize and implement emerging industry standards and models, including new pricing and licensing models. If the Company fails to respond to emerging industry standards, including licensing models and end-user requirements, the Company’s competitive position and revenues could be adversely affected. A significant portion of our future revenue is dependent upon our existing installed base of customers continuing to license additional products, as well as purchasing consulting services and renewing their annual maintenance and support contracts. If our existing customers fail to renew their maintenance and support agreements or fail to purchase new user licenses or product enhancements or additional services from the Company at historical levels, the Company’s revenues and results of operations could be materially impacted. Historically, approximately 50% to 60% of the Company’s license revenues, 90% of the Company’s maintenance revenues and a substantial portion of the Company’s consulting revenues are generated from the Company’s installed base of customers. Maintenance and support agreements with these customers are traditionally renewed on an annual basis at the customer’s discretion, and there is normally no requirement that a customer renew or that a customer pay new license or service fees to the Company following the initial purchase. For example, as a result of the recent economic downturn, some customers 25 Table of Contents have not renewed their maintenance and support agreements. If the Company’s existing customers do not renew their maintenance and support agreements or fail to purchase new user licenses or product enhancements or additional services at historical levels, our revenues and results of operations could be materially impacted. We have recorded a large amount of goodwill and other acquired intangible assets that we will be required to write down and record an expense if they become impaired. In connection with our acquisitions, as of December 31 2009, we have goodwill of $368.3 million and $84.1 million of amortizing acquired intangible assets on our balance sheet. Although the goodwill is not amortized, we are required to test the goodwill for impairment at least yearly and any time there is an indication an impairment may have occurred. For example, a significant decline in stock price, like the one that occurred for our common stock following December 31, 2008, may require us to test our goodwill for impairment. If we determine that the carrying value of the goodwill or other acquired intangible assets is in excess of its fair value, we will be required to write down a portion or all of the goodwill or other acquired intangible assets, which would adversely impact our results of operations and our ability to satisfy financial covenants in our credit agreement. Our increasingly complex software products may contain errors or defects, which could result in the rejection of our products and damage to our reputation as well as cause lost revenue, delays in collecting accounts receivable, diverted development resources and increased service costs and warranty claims. The Company’s software products are made up of increasingly complex computer programs. Software products are complex and products offered by the Company often contain undetected errors or failures (commonly referred to as bugs) when first introduced to the market or as new updates or upgrades of such products are released to the market. Despite testing by the Company, and by current and potential customers, prior to general release to the market, the Company’s products may still contain material errors after their initial commercial shipment. Such material errors may result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of the Company’s products, damage to the Company’s reputation and increased service and warranty costs. Ultimately, such errors could lead to a decline in the Company’s revenues. The Company has from time to time been notified by some of its customers of errors in its various software products. Although it has not occurred to date, the possibility of the Company being unable to correct such errors in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and its cash flows. In addition, if material technical problems with the current release of the various database and technology platforms, on which the Company’s products operate, including offerings by Progress Software Corporation, Rocket Software and Microsoft Corporation (i.e., SQL and .NET), occur, such difficulties could also negatively impact sales of these products, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The market for new development tools, application products and consulting and education services continues to emerge, which could negatively affect our client/server and Web-based products, and, if the Company fails to respond effectively to evolving requirements of these markets, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. The Company’s development tools, application products and consulting and education services generally help organizations build, customize or deploy solutions that operate in both client/server-computing and Web-based environments. The Company believes that the environment for application software is continuing to change from client/server to a Web-based environment to facilitate commerce on the Internet. There can be no assurance that the market for client/server computing will continue to grow, or will not decrease, or that the Company will be able to continue to respond effectively to the evolving requirements of Web-based markets. The market for our software products and services is highly competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors our business could be negatively impacted. The business information systems industry in general and the manufacturing, distribution, retail, CRM and financial computer software industry specifically, in which the Company competes are very competitive and subject to rapid technological change, evolving standards, frequent product enhancements and introductions and changing customer requirements. Many of the Company’s current and potential competitors have (i) longer operating histories, (ii) significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, (iii) greater name recognition, (iv) larger technical staffs and/or (v) a larger 26 Table of Contents installed customer base than the Company. In addition, as the Company continues to sell to larger companies outside the mid-market, it faces more competition from large well-established competitors such as SAP AG and Oracle Corporation. A number of companies offer products that are similar to the Company’s products and target the same markets. In addition, any of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements (such as commerce on the Internet and Web-based application software), and to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than the Company. Furthermore, because there are relatively low barriers to entry in the software industry, the Company expects additional competition from other established and emerging companies. Such competitors may develop products and services that compete with those offered by the Company or may acquire companies, businesses and product lines that compete with the Company. It also is possible that competitors may create alliances and rapidly acquire significant market share, including in new and emerging markets. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company’s current or potential competitors will not develop or acquire products or services comparable or superior to those that the Company develops, combine or merge to form significant competitors or adapt more quickly than the Company to new technologies, evolving industry trends and changing customer requirements. Competition could cause price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share for the Company’s products and services, any of which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that the competitive pressures that the Company may face will not materially adversely affect its business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. If we were to lose and not be able to replace the services of the members of our senior management team, we may not be able to execute our business strategy. Our future success depends in a large part upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team. In particular, our executive officers and other senior members of our management team such as our chief marketing officer and executive and senior vice presidents are critical to the overall management of Epicor as well as the development of our technology, our operations and our strategic direction. All of our executive officers and key employees are at-will employees, and we do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies. The transition of key executives, such as at the CEO level over the last year, as well as the loss of other key members of our executive management team, such as the departure in 2008 of our Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively and seriously harm our business if the management team is unable to lead the Company during such times of transition or attract qualified replacements in a timely manner. We may not be able to maintain and expand our product offerings or business if we are not able to retain, hire and integrate sufficiently qualified personnel. The Company’s success depends in large part on the continued service of key management personnel that are not subject to employment agreements, including, but not limited to, several of the key personnel employed as a result of the Company’s recent acquisitions. In addition, the Company needs to expand its workforce to continue its growth, and the competition to attract, retain and motivate qualified technical, sales and software development personnel is intense. Additionally, the sudden unexpected loss of such technical personnel, such as developers can have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely and effective manner. There is no assurance that the Company will retain its key personnel, including those who came to the Company as part of acquisitions, or attract sufficient numbers of qualified key personnel in the future. The failure to retain or attract such persons could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. Our software products incorporate and rely upon third party software products for certain key functionality and our revenues, as well as our ability to develop and introduce new products, could be adversely affected by our inability to control or replace these third party products and operations. The Company’s products incorporate and rely upon software products developed by several other third party entities such as Microsoft Corporation, Progress Software Corporation, and Rocket Software, Inc. Specifically, the Company’s software products are built and depend upon several underlying and evolving relational database management system platforms including Microsoft SQL Server, Progress OpenEdge™ and Rocket® U2™, and also are integrated with several other third party provider products for the 27 Table of Contents purpose of providing or enhancing necessary functionality. In the event that these third party products were to become unavailable to the Company or to our customers, either directly from the third party manufacturers or through other resellers of such products, the Company could not readily replace these products with substitute products. As a result, the Company cannot provide assurance that these third parties will: • Remain in business; • Continue to support the Company’s product lines; • Maintain viable product lines; • Make their product lines available to the Company on commercially acceptable terms; and • Not make their products available to the Company’s competitors on more favorable terms. In the long term (i.e., a year or more), an interruption of supply from these vendors could potentially be overcome through migration to another third party supplier or development within the Company. However, any interruption in the short term could have a significant detrimental effect on the Company’s ability to continue to market and sell those of its products relying on these specific third party products and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We may pursue strategic acquisitions, investments and relationships and may not be able to successfully manage our operations if we fail to successfully integrate such acquired businesses and technologies, which could adversely affect our operating results. As part of its business strategy, the Company may continue to expand its product offerings to include application software products and services that are complementary to its existing software applications, particularly in the areas of electronic commerce or commerce over the Internet, or may gain access to established customer bases into which the Company can sell its current products. The Company’s acquisitions of Scala in 2004, CRS in 2005 and NSB in 2008 are typical of this ongoing strategy. However, while this strategy has historically and may in the future involve acquisitions, investments in other businesses that offer complementary products, joint development agreements or technology licensing agreements, the specific risks we commonly encounter in these types of transactions include the following: • Difficulty in effectively integrating any acquired technologies or software products into our current products and technologies; • Difficulty in predicting and responding to issues related to product transition such as development, distribution and customer support; • The possible adverse impact of such acquisitions on existing relationships with third party partners and suppliers of technologies and services; • The possibility that customers of the acquired company might not accept new ownership and may transition to different technologies or attempt to renegotiate contract terms or relationships, including maintenance or support agreements; • The possibility that the due diligence process in any such acquisition may not completely identify material issues associated with product quality, product architecture, product development, intellectual property issues, key personnel issues or legal and financial contingencies; • Difficulty in integrating acquired operations, including incorporating internal control structures, due to geographical distance, and language and cultural differences; and • Difficulty in retaining employees of the acquired company. A failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses or technology for any of these reasons could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. We rely, in part, on third parties to sell our products. Disruptions to these channels would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. The Company distributes products through a direct sales force as well as through an indirect distribution channel, which includes VARs and other distributors and authorized consultants, consisting primarily of professional firms. During the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, approximately 28 Table of Contents 10%, 11% and 13%, respectively, of the Company’s software license revenues were generated by VARs and distributors. If the Company’s VARs, distributors or authorized consultants cease distributing or recommending the Company’s products or emphasize competing products, the Company’s results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The success of the Company’s VARs, distributors and authorized consultants depends in part upon their ability to attract and maintain qualified sales and consulting personnel. Additionally, the Company’s VARs, distributors and authorized consultants may generally terminate their agreements with the Company upon as little as 30 days notice. Almost all partners though may effectively terminate their agreements at any time by ceasing to promote or sell our products. If our VARs or other distributors are unable to maintain such qualified personnel or if several of the Company’s VARs or other distributors were to cease doing business or terminate their agreements and the Company is unable to replace them in a timely fashion, such factors could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. Further, there can be no assurance that having both a direct sales force and a distribution channel for the Company’s products will not lead to conflicts between those two sales forces that could adversely impact the Company’s ability to close sales transactions or could have a negative impact upon average selling prices, any of which may negatively impact the Company’s operating revenues and results of operations. Finally, many VARs, distributors and authorized consultants operate on narrow operating margins and have been negatively affected by the past by weak economic conditions. The Company’s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected if the financial condition of these VARs, distributors or authorized consultants weakens. If third parties infringe upon our intellectual property, we may expend significant resources enforcing our rights or suffer competitive injury, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we may be subject to claims that we infringe upon the intellectual property of others. The Company considers its proprietary software and the related intellectual property rights in such products to be among its most valuable assets. The Company relies on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws (domestically and internationally), employee and third party nondisclosure agreements and other industry standard methods for protecting ownership of its proprietary software. However, the Company cannot assure that in spite of these precautions, an unauthorized third party will not copy or reverse-engineer certain portions of the Company’s products or obtain and use information that the Company regards as proprietary. From time to time, the Company has in the past taken legal action against third parties whom the Company believed were infringing upon the Company’s intellectual property rights. However, there is no assurance that the mechanisms that the Company uses to protect its intellectual property will be adequate or that the Company’s competitors will not independently develop products that are substantially equivalent or superior to the Company’s products. Moreover, the Company from time to time receives claims from third parties that the Company’s software products infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. The Company expects that as the number of software products in the United States and worldwide increases and the functionality of these products further overlaps, the number of these types of claims will increase. This risk is potentially heightened in such diverse international markets as Eastern Europe, Asia and the Middle East. Although it has not yet occurred to date, any such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and require the Company to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. The terms of such royalty or license arrangements, if required, may not be favorable to the Company. In addition, in certain cases, the Company provides the source code for some of its application software under licenses to its customers to enable them to customize the software to meet their particular requirements and to distributors or other third party developers to translate or localize the products for resale in foreign countries. Although the source code licenses contain confidentiality and nondisclosure provisions, the Company cannot be certain that such customers, distributors or third-party developers will take or have taken adequate precautions to protect the Company’s source code or other confidential information. Moreover, regardless of contractual arrangements, the laws of some countries in which the Company does business or distributes its products do not offer the same level of protection to intellectual property, as do the laws of the United States. Our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and subject to substantial fluctuation. The Company’s quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past. For example, from the first quarter of 2007 through the fourth quarter of 2009, quarterly operating results have ranged from a net loss of $9.0 million to net income of $13.9 million. The Company’s operating results may continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of many specific factors that include: • Continued turmoil in the global economy; 29 Table of Contents • The demand for the Company’s products, including reduced demand related to changes in marketing focus for certain products, software market conditions or general economic conditions as they pertain to information technology (IT) spending; • Fluctuations in the length of the Company’s sales cycles, which may vary depending on the complexity of our products as well as the complexity of the customer’s specific software and service needs; • The size and timing of orders for the Company’s software products and services, which, because many orders are completed in the final days of each quarter, may be delayed to future quarters; • The number, timing and significance of new software product announcements, both by the Company and its competitors; • Customers’ unexpected postponement or termination of expected system upgrades or replacement due to a variety of factors including economic conditions, credit availability, changes in IT strategies or management changes; • Changes in accounting standards, including software revenue recognition standards; • Currency fluctuations; and • Fluctuations in number of customers renewing maintenance and support. In addition, the Company has historically realized a significant portion of its software license revenues in the final month of any quarter, with a concentration of such revenues recorded in the final ten business days of that month. Further, the Company generally realizes a significant portion of its annual software license revenues in the final quarter of the fiscal year. Due to the above factors, among others, the Company’s revenues are difficult to forecast. The Company, however, bases its expense levels, including operating expenses and hiring plans, in significant part, on its expectations of future revenue. As a result, the Company expects its expense levels to be relatively fixed in the short term. The Company’s failure to meet revenue expectations could adversely affect operating results. Further, an unanticipated decline in revenue for a particular quarter may disproportionately affect the Company’s operating results in that quarter because the majority of the Company’s expenses will be fixed in the short term. As a result, the Company believes that period-to-period comparisons of the Company’s results of operations are not, and will not, necessarily be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. Due to the foregoing factors, it is likely that, as in past quarters, in some future quarters the Company’s operating results will be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. As in those past quarters, such an event would likely have an adverse effect upon the price of the Company’s outstanding securities. Our operating cash flows are subject to fluctuation, primarily related to our ability to timely collect accounts receivable and to achieve anticipated revenues and expenses. Negative fluctuations in operating cash flows may require us to seek additional cash sources to fund our working capital requirements. If additional cash sources are not available to the Company, our operations could be adversely affected. From the first quarter of 2007 through the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company’s quarterly operating cash flows have ranged from $0.1 million provided by operating activities to $34.8 million provided by operating activities. The Company’s cash and cash equivalents have increased from $75.2 million at December 31, 2007 to $106.9 million at December 31, 2009. However, the Company has at times experienced decreasing revenues and, prior to the first quarter of 2003, continued operating losses. If, in the future, the Company is not successful in achieving its anticipated revenues and expenses or maintaining a positive cash flow, the Company may not have sufficient resources for planned growth and may be required to take actions to reduce its operating expenses, such as reductions in work force and/or seek additional sources of funding. Historically, the Company has also experienced fluctuations in the proportion of accounts receivable over 90 days old and days sales outstanding. These fluctuations have been due to various issues, including product and service quality, deteriorating financial condition of customers during the recent recession and lack of effectiveness of the Company’s collection processes. During the past two years, our days sales outstanding have fluctuated from lows of 65 to highs of 91, due to a variety of factors. Given the recent economic turmoil, if the Company cannot successfully collect a 30 Table of Contents significant portion of its net accounts receivable, the Company may be required to seek alternative financing sources. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had a $230.0 million obligation to holders of the Company’s convertible bonds and $67.5 million in debt. The market for our stock is volatile and fluctuations in operating results, changes in the Company’s guidance on revenues and earnings estimates and other factors could negatively impact our stock’s price. During the three-year period ended December 31, 2009, the closing price of the Company’s common stock ranged from a low of $2.36 to a high of $15.49. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the price of the Company’s common stock ranged from a low of $2.36 to a high of $7.89. As of March 1, 2010, the Company had 61,100,212 shares of Common Stock outstanding. The market prices for securities of technology companies, including the Company’s, have historically been quite volatile. Quarter to quarter variations in operating results, changes in the Company’s guidance on revenues and earnings estimates, announcements of technological innovations or new products by the Company or its competitors, announcements of major contract awards, announcements of industry acquisitions by us or our competitors, changes in accounting standards or regulatory requirements as promulgated by the FASB, SEC, NASDAQ or other regulatory entities, changes in management and other events or factors may have a significant impact on the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. In addition, the securities of many technology companies have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have often been related more to changes in recommendations or financial estimates by securities analysts than to the companies’ actual operating performance. Any of these conditions may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. A variety of specific business interruptions could adversely affect our business. A number of particular types of business interruptions could greatly interfere with our ability to conduct business. For example, a substantial portion of our facilities, including our corporate headquarters and other critical business operations, are located near major earthquake faults. We do not carry earthquake insurance and do not fund for earthquake-related losses. In addition, our computer systems are susceptible to damage from fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, and similar events. The Company continues to consider and implement its options and develop contingency plans to avoid and/or minimize potential disruptions to its telecommunication services. If open source software expands into enterprise software applications, our software license revenues may decline. Open source software includes a broad range of software applications and operating environments produced by companies, development organizations and individual software developers and typically licensed for use, distribution and modification at a nominal cost or often, free of charge. A notable example of open source software is the Linux operating system, which continues to gain in popularity. To the extent that the open source software models expand and non-commercial companies and software developers create and contribute competitive enterprise software applications to the open source community, we may have to adjust our pricing, maintenance and distribution strategies and models, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. Future acquisitions of technologies or companies, which are paid for partially, or entirely through the issuance of stock or stock rights could prove dilutive to existing shareholders. Consistent with past experience, the Company expects that the consideration it might pay for any future acquisitions of companies or technologies could include stock, rights to purchase stock, cash or some combination of the foregoing. For example, the Company’s Scala acquisition in 2004 involved the issuance of approximately 4.25 million shares of the Company’s Common Stock. If the Company issues stock or rights to purchase stock in connection with future acquisitions, earnings (loss) per share and then-existing holders of the Company’s Common Stock may experience dilution. Because of these and other factors affecting the Company’s operating results, past financial performance should not be considered an indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 31 Table of Contents Our preferred share rights plan, blank check preferred stock and Delaware law contain provisions that may inhibit potential acquisition bids, which may harm our stock price or discourage potential acquirers. We have in place a preferred share rights plan and our Board of Directors also has the authority to issue preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of the shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. If we issue any of these shares of preferred stock in the future, the rights of holders of our common stock may be negatively affected. Although we have no current plans to issue shares of preferred stock, if we issue preferred stock, a change of control of our company could be delayed, deferred or prevented. Furthermore, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law restricts certain business combinations with any “interested stockholder” as defined by that statute. In the past, we have been the target of unsolicited takeover bids and an unsolicited tender offer. The preferred share rights plan and these other provisions are designed to encourage potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors and give our Board an opportunity to consider various alternatives to increase stockholder value. The preferred share rights plan and other provisions are also intended to discourage certain tactics that may be used in proxy contests. However, the operation of the preferred share rights plan, the potential issuance of preferred stock or the restrictions in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control, which may adversely affect the market price of our stock. 32 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 