Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents Sterling files with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Current market developments have adversely affected our industry, business, results of operations and access to capital and may continue to do so. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, in turn have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have restricted lending to even the most credit-worthy borrowers or to other financial institutions and government agencies. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. If market conditions continue to worsen, they would likely have adverse effects on us and other financial institutions. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • The processes we use to estimate inherent losses may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future charge-offs. • The values of our real estate collateral supporting many construction, land acquisition, multifamily and commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. • Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to engage in securitization funding transactions on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. • We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. • Competition in our industry for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly and could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. • We expect to face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, and increase compliance challenges. • Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause declines in credit card usage and adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. In recent weeks, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have 33 Table of Contents produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial services institutions, including the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients, resulting in a significant credit concentration with respect to the financial services industry overall. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Sterling solicits public deposits in various states, including Washington and Oregon. As a Washington and Oregon Public Depositary, Sterling is part of a collateral pool established to protect public deposits not covered by FDIC insurance or assets of a failed bank. Sterling can be assessed its prorata share of public fund losses resulting from the failure of another bank in the collateral pool. In February 2009, Sterling was assessed $1.1 million for its prorata share of a public fund loss resulting from the recent failure of a Washington State Public Depositary Bank. Washington State Public Depositaries are currently required to collateralize 10% of their Washington State Uninsured Public Funds. On February 18, 2009, the Washington State Public Deposit Protection Commission adopted a resolution that sets a July 1, 2009 target for all banks and thrifts that operate as public depositaries to collateralize 100% of their uninsured public deposits. The Washington State Legislature in conjunction with the State Treasurer and DFI is working on legislation updates to improve the risk management and communication between units of government and to take other steps to reduce the risk to pool participants. Oregon State Public Depositaries are currently required to collateralize Oregon Public Uninsured deposits at either 10% or 110%, at the option of the Oregon State Treasurer. Sterling is currently taking steps to limit its exposure to public fund losses, although their can be no guarantee that Sterling will be successful at limiting such exposure. Defaults may further negatively impact Sterling’s business. Increased delinquencies or loan defaults by Sterling’s customers may further negatively impact business. A borrower’s default on its obligations under one or more loans may result in lost principal and interest income and increased operating expenses as a result of the allocation of management time and resources to the collection and workout of the loan. Recently, Sterling has experienced an increase in the level of delinquencies and non-performing loans, primarily, within its construction portfolio. This has adversely affected Sterling’s recent financial performance and may continue to do so until economic trends improve. If collection efforts are unsuccessful or acceptable workout arrangements cannot be reached, Sterling may have to charge-off all or a part of the loan. In such situations, Sterling may acquire any real estate or other assets, if any, that secure the loan through foreclosure or other similar available remedies. The amount owed under the defaulted loan may exceed the value of the assets acquired. The allowance for credit losses may be inadequate. Sterling loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of the loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. Sterling therefore may experience significant credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results. Recently, 34 Table of Contents Sterling has increased its provision for credit losses in response to an increase in the level of classified and non-performing loans, as well as declines in real estate values. Sterling makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of its loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of its borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of Sterling’s loans. Sterling relies on its loan quality reviews, experience and evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors, in determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses. If Sterling’s assumptions prove to be incorrect, its allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio, resulting in additions to Sterling’s allowance. Increases in this allowance result in an expense for the period. If, as a result of general economic conditions or a decrease in asset quality, management determines that additional increases in the allowance for credit losses are necessary, Sterling may incur additional expenses. Sterling’s loans are primarily secured by real estate, including a concentration of properties located in the Pacific Northwest. If an earthquake, volcano eruption or other natural disaster were to occur in one of the major market areas, credit losses could occur that are not incorporated in the existing allowance for credit losses. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans in some circumstances, which could harm our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. When we sell mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. Our whole loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event we breach any of these representations or warranties. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default of the borrower on a mortgage loan. Likewise, we are required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. The remedies available to us against the originating broker or correspondent may not be as broad as the remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans against us, and we face the further risk that the originating broker or correspondent may not have the financial capacity to perform remedies that otherwise may be available to us. Therefore, if a purchaser enforces its remedies against us, we may not be able to recover our losses from the originating broker or correspondent. If repurchase and indemnity demands increase, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Recent governmental actions to help stabilize the U.S. financial system or improve the housing market may not be successful. The actual impact of the EESA and other governmental actions that have been taken to alleviate the credit crisis is unknown, and may contribute to the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced in the economy. The failure of such measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current market conditions could materially and adversely affect Sterling’s business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of Sterling’s common stock. As a bank holding company, Sterling’s earnings are dependent upon the performance of its bank and non-bank subsidiaries as well as by business, economic and political conditions. Sterling is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries, including Sterling Savings Bank and Golf Savings Bank, although the principal source of Sterling’s cash is dividends from Sterling Savings Bank and Golf Savings Bank. Sterling’s right to participate in the assets of any subsidiary upon that subsidiary’s liquidation, reorganization or otherwise will be subject to the claims of the subsidiary’s creditors, which will take priority except to the extent that Sterling may be a creditor with a recognized claim. 35 Table of Contents Sterling Savings Bank and Golf Savings Bank are also subject to restrictions under federal law that limit the transfer of funds to Sterling or to other affiliates, whether in the form of loans, extensions of credit, investments, asset purchases or otherwise. Such transfers by Sterling Savings Bank or Golf Savings Bank to Sterling or any other affiliate are limited in amount to 10% of each bank’s capital and surplus. Furthermore, such loans and extensions of credit are required to be collateralized. Earnings are impacted by business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, monetary supply, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which Sterling operates. Business and economic conditions that negatively impact household or corporate incomes could decrease the demand for Sterling products and increase the number of customers who fail to pay their loans. A continued downturn in the local economies or real estate markets could negatively impact Sterling’s banking business. A continued downturn in the local economies or real estate markets could negatively impact Sterling’s banking business. Because Sterling primarily serves individuals and businesses located in the western United States, a significant portion of its total loan portfolio is originated and secured by Pacific Northwest real estate, other assets or real estate in other markets in the western United States. As a result of this geographic concentration, the ability of customers to repay their loans, and consequently Sterling’s results, are impacted by the economic and business conditions in the Pacific Northwest, in particular in the metropolitan areas of Seattle, Washington and Portland, Oregon, as well as in Sterling’s other markets throughout the western United States, including: Spokane, Washington; Boise, Idaho; Bend, Oregon; Sacramento and Los Angeles, California; and Phoenix, Arizona. Any adverse economic or business developments or natural disasters in these areas could cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures Sterling loans or could negatively affect the ability of borrowers to make payments of principal and interest on the underlying loans. In the event of such adverse development or natural disaster, Sterling’s results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. Furthermore, current uncertain geopolitical trends and negative economic trends, including uncertainty regarding economic growth and increased unemployment, may negatively impact businesses in Sterling’s markets. While the short-term and long-term effects of these events remain uncertain, they could adversely affect general economic conditions, consumer confidence, market liquidity or result in changes in interest rates, any of which could have a negative impact on banking business. We may experience future goodwill impairment. For the year ended December 31, 2008, Sterling recorded a non-cash charge to reflect impairment of Sterling’s goodwill as a result of a number of factors, including the sustained and protracted decline in Sterling’s stock price and market capitalization. If our estimates of the fair value of our goodwill change as a result of changes in our business or other factors, we may determine that another impairment charge is necessary. Estimates of fair value are based on a complex model using, among other things, cash flows and company comparisons. If our estimates of future cash flows or other components of our fair value calculations are inaccurate, the fair value of goodwill reflected in our financial statements could be inaccurate and we could be required to take additional impairment charges, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in 36 Table of Contents amounts adequate to finance our activities on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a continued downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by financial institutions and the continued deterioration in credit markets. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or be required to raise additional capital. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital in response to a deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. Should we be required by regulatory authorities to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or preferred stock. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Sterling has shifted its focus to community banking. Sterling is increasing its commercial and consumer lending while placing an increased emphasis on attracting greater volumes of retail deposits. Commercial and consumer loans generally produce higher yields than residential mortgage loans. Such loans, however, generally involve a higher degree of risk than the financing of residential real estate, primarily because the collateral may be difficult to obtain or liquidate in the event of default. Commercial loans are more expensive to originate than residential mortgage loans. As a result, Sterling’s operating expenses are likely to increase as Sterling increases its lending in this area. Additionally, Sterling is likely to experience higher levels of loan losses than it would on residential mortgage loans. There can be no assurance that Sterling’s emphasis on community banking will be successful or that any increase in the yields on commercial and consumer loans will offset higher levels of expense and losses on such loans. Sterling’s loan originations are highly concentrated in certain types of loans. Sterling’s loans, with limited exceptions, are secured by real estate, marketable securities or corporate assets. A significant portion of Sterling’s loans are construction loans. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, $2.53 billion and $2.94 billion of Sterling Savings Bank’s total loan portfolio, respectively, consisted of construction loans. Approximately 52% and 57% of Sterling’s construction loans were for speculative endeavors as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Construction lending is subject to risks such as construction delays, cost overruns, insufficient collateral and the inability to obtain permanent financing in a timely manner. Recently, several of Sterling’s markets have experienced negative market conditions that have adversely affected the marketing and valuations of residential housing under construction and Sterling has experienced an increase in the level of non-performing loans within its residential construction portfolio. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, non-performing residential constructions loans totaled $410.3 million and $100.8 million, respectively, of which Portland, Oregon, the Puget Sound in Washington State, and Southern California accounted for a combined 63% and 36%, respectively. 37 Table of Contents Additionally, at December 31, 2008 and 2007, 20% and 18%, respectively, of Sterling Savings Bank’s and Golf Savings Bank’s loan portfolio consisted of multifamily residential and commercial property loans. A reduction in the demand for new construction or multifamily residential and commercial property loans or a decline in residential or commercial real estate values could have a negative impact on Sterling Savings Bank or Golf Savings Bank. Sterling’s ability to continue to originate such loans may be impaired by adverse changes in local and regional economic conditions in the real estate markets, or by acts of nature. Due to the concentration of real estate collateral, these events could have a material adverse impact on the value of the collateral, resulting in losses or delinquencies. Sterling’s residential mortgage and home equity loans are primarily secured by residential property in the Pacific Northwest. As a result, conditions in the real estate markets specifically, and the Pacific Northwest economy generally, can materially impact the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans and affect the value of the collateral securing these loans. Customer demand for loans secured by real estate could be reduced by a weaker economy, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or an increase in interest rates. Further declines in real estate values could continue to have an adverse effect on Sterling’s financial condition. Sterling’s earnings are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of governmental and regulatory agencies. The Federal Reserve, regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and the return Sterling can earn on those loans and investments, both of which impact net interest margin, and can materially affect the value of financial instruments such as debt securities and mortgage servicing rights. Its policies also can affect Sterling’s borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in Federal Reserve policies are beyond Sterling’s control and hard to predict or anticipate. The amount of income taxes that Sterling is required to pay on its earnings is based on federal and state legislation and regulations. Sterling provided for current and deferred taxes in its financial statements, based on its results of operations, business activity, legal structure and interpretation of tax statutes. Sterling may take filing positions or follow tax strategies that may be subject to challenge. Sterling’s net income and earnings per share may be reduced if a federal, state, or local authority assessed charges for taxes that have not been provided for in its consolidated financial statements. There can be no assurance that Sterling will achieve its effective tax rate or that taxing authorities will not change tax legislation, challenge filing positions, or assess taxes and interest charges. The OCC, Federal Reserve and FDIC have recently adopted final guidance entitled “Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate Lending, Sound Risk Management Practices.” The guidance applies to institutions that have a high concentration of real estate and related loans in their portfolio. The guidance provides that such institutions may be required in the future to maintain higher capital ratios than other institutions with lower such concentrations. Based on the guidance as adopted, Sterling may be subject to increased regulatory oversight and guidance. While Sterling believes that it is and will continue to be well capitalized under current policies of the banking authorities, Sterling could become subject to higher capital requirements under the guidance which could result in lower earnings. Sterling’s banking business is highly regulated. State-chartered banks operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision and examination by federal and state regulatory agencies. Sterling Savings Bank, as a Washington State-chartered commercial bank, and Golf Savings Bank, as a Washington State chartered savings bank, are each subject to regulation and supervision by the FDIC and the WDFI. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters, including changes in the ownership or control of banks, maintenance of adequate capital and the financial 38 Table of Contents condition of a financial institution, permissible types, amounts, and terms of extensions of credit and investments, maintenance of permissible non-banking activities, maintenance of deposit insurance, protection of financial privacy, the level of reserves against deposits, and restrictions on dividend payments. The FDIC, the Federal Reserve and the WDFI possess cease and desist powers to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulations. These and other restrictions limit the manner in which Sterling may conduct business, and in certain cases, obtain capital or financing. Changes in market interest rates could continue to adversely affect Sterling’s earnings. Sterling’s earnings are impacted by changing market interest rates. Changes in market interest rates impact the level of loans, deposits and investments, the credit profile of existing loans and the rates received on loans and investment securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings. Sterling’s primary source of income from operations is net interest income, which is equal to the difference between the interest income received on interest-earning assets (usually, loans and investment securities) and the interest expense incurred in connection with interest-bearing liabilities (usually, deposits and borrowings). These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, both domestic and foreign, and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Net interest income can be affected significantly by changes in market interest rates. Recently, in response to significant reductions in short term interest rates by the Federal Reserve, Sterling’s net interest income has decreased. While short term interest rates recently have been declining, the amount of interest Sterling pays on deposits have not declined as quickly as the amount of interest Sterling receives on its loans. This has caused Sterling’s profits to decrease. Declines in interest rates also increase the volume of pre-payments on fixed rate loans and mortgage-related securities, generally at levels directly proportional to the loan or securities’ interest rate. Increases in pre-payments cause Sterling to lose interest income at a faster pace than anticipated when the loan was made or the securities purchased. Sterling’s ability to reinvest these pre-payments will generally be limited to loans and securities yielding a lower rate of interest than on the original loans and securities. Alternatively, in cycles in which interest rates are rising, the value of Sterling’s mortgage-related securities and investment securities may decline, and the demand for loans may decrease. An increase in interest rates could reduce the ability of borrowers to repay their current loan obligations. These circumstances could not only result in increased loan defaults, foreclosures and write-offs, but also necessitate further increases to the allowances for credit losses. Increasing market interest rates may depress property values, which could affect the value of collateral securing Sterling loans. Additionally, fluctuations in interest rates may result in disintermediation, which is the flow of funds away from depository institutions into direct investments that pay a higher rate of return and may affect the value of Sterling investment securities and other interest-earning assets. Sterling’s cost of funds may increase as a result of a change in one or more variables. Sterling’s cost of funds may remain higher than prevailing interest rates because of general economic conditions, unfavorable conditions in the capital markets, interest rates, debt ratings and competitive pressures. Sterling has traditionally obtained funds principally through deposits and borrowings. As a general matter, deposits are a cheaper source of funds than borrowings, because interest rates paid for deposits are typically less than interest rates charged for borrowings. If, as a result of general economic conditions, market interest rates, competitive pressures, or other factors, Sterling’s level of deposits decreases relative to its overall banking operation, Sterling may have to rely more heavily on borrowings as a source of funds in the future, which may negatively impact net interest margin. There can be no assurance additional borrowings, if sought, would be available to us or, if available, would be on favorable terms. If additional borrowing sources are unavailable or not available on reasonable terms, our financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be materially adversely affected. 39 Table of Contents Competition and recent operating results may adversely affect Sterling’s ability to attract and retain customers at current levels. The banking and financial services businesses in Sterling’s market areas are highly competitive. Competition in the banking, mortgage and finance industries may limit Sterling’s ability to attract and retain customers. Sterling faces competition from other banking institutions, savings banks, credit unions and other financial institutions. Sterling also competes with non-bank financial service companies within the states that it serves and out of state financial intermediaries that have opened loan production offices or that solicit deposits in its market areas. There also has been a general consolidation of financial institutions in recent years, which results in new competitors and larger competitors in Sterling’s market areas. In particular, Sterling’s competitors include major financial companies whose greater resources may provide them a marketplace advantage. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain deposits and the range and quality of services provided. Because Sterling has fewer financial and other resources than larger institutions with which it competes, Sterling may be limited in its ability to attract customers. In addition, some of the current commercial banking customers may seek alternative banking sources as they develop needs for credit facilities larger than Sterling can accommodate. Sterling’s recent operating results may also deter certain current or prospective deposit customers. If Sterling is unable to attract and retain customers, it may be unable to continue its loan and deposit growth, and its results of operations and financial condition may otherwise be negatively impacted. Sterling may not be able to successfully implement its internal growth strategy. Sterling has pursued and intends to continue to pursue an internal growth strategy, the success of which will depend primarily on generating an increasing level of loans and deposits at acceptable risk levels and terms without proportionate increases in non-interest expenses. There can be no assurance that Sterling will be successful in implementing its internal growth strategy. Furthermore, the success of Sterling’s growth strategy will depend on maintaining sufficient regulatory capital levels and on economic conditions in Sterling’s market area. There are risks associated with potential acquisitions. Sterling may make opportunistic acquisitions of other banks or financial institutions from time to time that further its business strategy. These acquisitions could involve numerous risks including lower than expected performance or higher than expected costs, difficulties in the integration of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, changes in relationships with customers and the potential loss of key employees. Any acquisitions will be subject to regulatory approval, and there can be no assurance that Sterling will be able to obtain such approvals. Sterling may not be successful in identifying further acquisition candidates, integrating acquired institutions or preventing deposit erosion or loan quality deterioration at acquired institutions. Competition for acquisitions is highly competitive, and Sterling may not be able to acquire other institutions on attractive terms. There can be no assurance that Sterling will be successful in completing future acquisitions, or if such transactions are completed, that Sterling will be successful in integrating acquired businesses into its operations. Sterling’s ability to grow may be limited if it is unable to successfully make future acquisitions. Sterling may not be able to replace key members of management or attract and retain qualified relationship managers in the future. Sterling depends on the services of existing management to carry out its business and investment strategies. As Sterling expands, it will need to continue to attract and retain additional management and other qualified staff. In particular, because Sterling plans to continue to expand its locations, products and services, Sterling will need to continue to attract and retain qualified banking personnel and investment advisors. Competition for such personnel is significant in Sterling’s geographic market areas. 40 Table of Contents In connection with Sterling’s sale of preferred stock to the Treasury Department as part of its participation in the CPP, Sterling agreed to abide by certain limitations on the compensation that it is able to pay to certain of its executive officers. More stringent restrictions on executive compensation were imposed by Congress on CPP participants in February 2009 as part of the ARRA, and these restrictions apply retroactively. Congress may impose additional restrictions in the future that may also apply retroactively. These restrictions may have an adverse affect on Sterling’s ability to attract and retain executive talent. The loss of the services of any management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial conditions and prospects. Sterling is expanding its lending activities in riskier areas. Sterling has identified owner occupied commercial real estate, business and consumer loans as areas for increased lending emphasis. While increased lending diversification is expected to increase interest income, commercial real estate, business and consumer loans may carry greater risk of payment default than residential real estate loans. As the volume of these loans increases, credit risk may increase. In the event of substantial borrower defaults, Sterling’s provision for credit losses would increase and therefore, earnings would be reduced. Our deposit insurance premiums are expected to increase substantially, which will adversely affect our operating results. Our deposit insurance expense for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $6.6 million, compared to $2.9 million for 2007. Deposit insurance premiums are expected to increase in 2009 due to recent strains on the FDIC deposit insurance fund resulting from the cost of large bank failures and an increase in the number of troubled banks. The current rates for the FDIC assessments have ranged from 5 to 43 basis points, depending on the health of the insurance institution. The FDIC has proposed increasing that assessment range to 12 to 50 basis points for the first quarter of 2009. Effective April 1, 2009, the FDIC has proposed an assessment rate range of 12 to 45 basis points for institutions that do not exceed a certain threshold amount of brokered deposits and secured liabilities, and higher rates for those that do exceed the threshold amount. The FDIC has also proposed that it could increase assessment rates in the future without formal rulemaking. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC adopted an amended Restoration Plan for the DIF that was originally established and implemented on October 7, 2008. The amended Plan requires an increase in premium assessment rates to return the DIF reserve ratio to 1.15 percent within seven years. The FDIC also adopted an interim rule imposing a special assessment equal to 20 basis points of an institution’s assessment base on June 30, 2009. The assessment will be payable on or about September 30, 2009. The interim rule provides that the FDIC may impose additional emergency special assessments of up to 10 basis points, if necessary. There can be no assurance as to what the amount of the assessment rates will be when the final rule is adopted. If all or a significant portion of the unrealized losses in Sterling’s portfolio of investment securities were determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired, Sterling would recognize a material charge to its earnings and its capital ratios would be adversely impacted. As of December 31, 2008, there were $17.9 million of after-tax net unrealized losses associated with Sterling’s portfolio of investment securities available for sale. Generally, the fair value of such securities is based upon market values supplied by third-party sources. When the fair value of a security declines, management must assess whether that decline is other-than-temporary. When management reviews whether a decline in fair value is other-than-temporary, it considers numerous factors, many of which involve significant judgment. For further discussions see “Critical Accounting Policies.” More generally, market conditions continue to be volatile, and no assurance can be provided that the amount of the unrealized losses will not increase or that the factors may change resulting in a determination that the losses are other-than-temporarily impaired. If impaired, Sterling would recognize a charge to its earnings in the quarter during which such determination is made and its capital ratios will be adversely impacted. 41 Table of Contents Sterling operations could be interrupted if its third-party service providers experience difficulty, terminate their services or fail to comply with banking regulations. Sterling depends, and will continue to depend, to a significant extent, on a number of relationships with third-party service providers. Specifically, Sterling receives core systems processing, essential web hosting and other Internet systems and deposit and other processing services from third-party service providers. If these third-party service providers experience difficulties or terminate their services and Sterling is unable to replace them with other service providers, its operations could be interrupted. If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Sterling’s internal control systems could fail to detect certain events. Sterling is subject to certain operations risks, including but not limited to data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. Sterling maintains a system of internal controls to mitigate against such occurrences and maintain insurance coverage for such risks, but should such an event occur that is not prevented or detected by Sterling’s internal controls, uninsured or in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on its business, financial condition or results of operations. The network and computer systems on which Sterling depends could fail or experience a security breach. Sterling’s computer systems could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Because Sterling conducts part of its business over the Internet and outsources several critical functions to third parties, operations will depend on the ability, as well as that of third-party service providers, to protect computer systems and network infrastructure against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, physical break-ins or similar catastrophic events. Any damage or failure that causes interruptions in operations could have a material adverse effect on business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a significant barrier to online financial transactions is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Sterling’s Internet banking system relies on encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms its third-party service providers use to protect customer transaction data. If any such compromise of security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on Sterling’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Sterling could be held responsible for environmental liabilities of properties acquired through foreclosure. If Sterling is forced to foreclose on a defaulted mortgage loan to recover its investment, it may be subject to environmental liabilities related to the underlying real property. Hazardous substances or wastes, contaminants, pollutants or sources thereof may be discovered on properties during its ownership or after a sale to a third party. The amount of environmental liability could exceed the value of real property. There can be no assurance that Sterling would not be fully liable for the entire cost of any removal and clean-up on an acquired property, that the cost of removal and clean-up would not exceed the value of the property, or that costs could be recovered from any third party. In addition, Sterling may find it difficult or impossible to sell the property prior to or following any environmental remediation. Sterling’s stock price has been volatile. Sterling’s stock price has fluctuated widely, and may continue to do so, in response to a variety of factors, including actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; changes in shareholder dividend policy; recommendations by securities analysts; and news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry. Other factors include new technology used or services offered by Sterling’s 42 Table of Contents competitors; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; and changes in government regulations. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as future terrorist attacks and activities, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, also could cause Sterling’s stock price to decrease regardless of its operating results. Shares eligible for future sale could have a dilutive effect. Shares of Sterling common stock eligible for future sale, in future acquisitions and any other offering of Sterling common stock for cash, could have a dilutive effect on the market for Sterling common stock and could adversely affect its market price. On July 25, 2006, Sterling filed a “shelf” registration statement on Form S-3 that provides for the issuance by Sterling of up to $100 million in Sterling common stock and preferred stock. This will enable Sterling to offer additional shares of common and/or preferred stock for such consideration, on such terms and at such times as is determined by Sterling’s board of directors. On December 5, 2008, in addition to the preferred shares that were issued to the Treasury Department, Sterling issued a ten year warrant to purchase 6,437,677 shares of Sterling common stock at an exercise price of $7.06 per share. There are 100,000,000 shares of Sterling common stock authorized, of which 52,134,030 shares were outstanding as of December 31, 2008. Regulatory and contractual restrictions may limit or prevent us from paying dividends on our common stock and preferred stock, or meeting other obligations. As a bank holding company, Sterling’s ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain regulatory and contractual considerations. Sterling is an entity separate and distinct from its principal subsidiaries, Sterling Savings Bank and Golf Savings Bank, and derives substantially all of its revenue in the form of dividends from those subsidiaries. Accordingly, Sterling is and will be dependent upon dividends from Sterling Savings Bank and Golf Savings Bank to pay the principal of and interest on its indebtedness, to pay dividends on its common stock and on the preferred stock issued by Sterling to the Treasury Department, and to satisfy other obligations and cash needs of the holding company. Sterling Savings Bank and Golf Savings Bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to their ability to earn net income and to meet certain regulatory requirements. In the event Sterling’s subsidiary banks are unable to pay dividends to Sterling, it may not be able to service its debt, pay its obligations or pay dividends on its common stock or preferred stock. Pursuant to the terms of the purchase agreement entered into by Sterling with the Treasury Department in connection with Sterling’s sale of Sterling’s preferred stock as part of its participation in the CPP, Sterling’s ability to declare or pay dividends or distributions on, or purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for consideration, shares of its common stock is limited and includes a restriction against increasing dividends from Sterling’s prior quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per share. The ability of Sterling to declare or pay dividends or distributions on, or repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for consideration, shares of its common stock is also subject to restrictions in the event that Sterling fails to declare and pay full dividends (or declare and set aside a sum sufficient for payment thereof) on its preferred stock. Furthermore, Sterling may only pay dividends: (1) if there are lawfully available funds, as provided under Washington law; and (2) when, as and if authorized and declared by Sterling’s board of directors, which depends on, among other things, the results of operations, financial condition, debt service requirements, other cash needs and any other factors the board of directors deems relevant. Future legislation could change our competitive position. Various legislation, including proposals to change substantially the financial institution regulatory system and to expand or contract the powers of banking institutions and bank holding companies, is from time to time introduced in the Congress. This legislation may change banking statutes and Sterling’s operating environment in 43 Table of Contents substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. Sterling cannot predict whether any of this potential legislation will be enacted, and if enacted, the effect that it, or any implementing regulations, would have on Sterling’s financial condition or results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 