risk factors described below and in other documents the Company files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Introduction Epicor Software Corporation (Epicor or the Company) designs, develops, markets and supports enterprise application software solutions and services primarily for use by mid-sized companies and the divisions and subsidiaries of Global 1000 enterprises, which generally consist of companies with annual revenues between $10 million and $1 billion, and emerging enterprises, which generally consist of rapidly growing businesses with annual revenues under $25 million. Epicor’s solutions are designed to help companies focus on their customers, suppliers, partners and employees through enterprise-wide management of resources and information. This collaborative focus distinguishes the Company from conventional enterprise resource planning (ERP) vendors, whose primary focus is improving internal business processes and efficiencies. The Company believes that by automating and integrating information and critical business processes across their entire value chain, enterprises can improve not just their bottom line, but also their top line, allowing them to compete more effectively in today’s increasingly global economy. The Company’s products include back office applications for production management, supply chain management (SCM), retail management and financial accounting, as well as front office customer relationship management (CRM) and service management. Epicor also provides industry-specific solutions to the manufacturing, distribution, services and retail and hospitality industry sectors, as well as to a range of industries and vertical markets within these sectors including financial services, professional services, industrial machinery, consumer goods, automotive, hotels and specialty retail. Epicor’s solutions also focus on the need for increased supply chain visibility and transparency and offer e-commerce and collaborative portal capabilities that allow companies to further extend beyond the traditional “four walls” of their enterprise and further integrate their operations with those of their customers, suppliers and partners. The Company’s products are increasingly developed on and use a service-oriented architecture (SOA), which can help manufacturers, distributors, retailers and services organizations more quickly and efficiently respond to changing business requirements and practices. SOA is a modular, standards-based approach to software development and its deployment is designed to provide a more agile and adaptable application foundation, which can help companies more effectively align their IT resources and enterprise software with their overall business objectives. The Company offers solutions targeted to the following industries: Manufacturing—Epicor’s manufacturing solutions provide integrated ERP solutions for discrete and mixed-mode manufacturers. The Company’s solutions are designed to meet the challenges of today’s agile manufacturing 2 Table of Contents environment typified by short product lifecycles, continual process improvement, mass customization and lean manufacturing initiatives. The Company’s products have been designed for specific types of manufacturers – from a small local job shop to a large regional manufacturer. The key industries on which Epicor focuses its manufacturing solutions include metal fabrication, industrial machinery, automotive, electronics, consumer goods and aerospace. Distribution—Epicor’s distribution solutions are designed to meet the expanding requirement to support a demand-driven supply network (DDSN) by increasing focus on the customer and providing a more seamless order to shipment cycle, as well as inventory and warehouse management, sales and order processing (S&OP), financials, CRM and planning and forecasting solutions. The Company’s distribution solution is designed to automate a business, from customer acquisition and order management to warehouse fulfillment, accounting and customer service. The distribution suite offers an end-to-end solution set tailored for wholesale distributors including third-party logistics providers. Retail and Hospitality—Epicor provides solutions tailored for the retail, hospitality and entertainment industries. The Company’s retail solutions can support both smaller, single PC-based point-of-sale (POS) retail outlet scenarios, as well as larger scale, distributed POS environments in specialty, general merchandise retailing and large specialty store chains that require more comprehensive POS, loyalty management and merchandising capabilities. Epicor provides both “best-of-breed” retail solutions for large Tier-One retailers, as well as complete “post-to-host” solutions which can integrate all elements of the retail supply chain from the store register through to the enterprise merchandising, planning, selling and financial applications. The Company’s hospitality solutions, designed for food service, hotel, sports and recreation and other entertainment companies, can manage and streamline virtually every aspect of a hospitality organization — from point-of-sale or property management system integration, to cash and sales management, food costing, core financials and business intelligence — all within a single solution. Services—Epicor’s solutions for services companies is focused on delivering a complete, end-to-end enterprise solution designed to meet the critical business requirements of mid-sized to larger distributed service organizations, providing service organizations with the tools to improve staff utilization, maximize billing and revenue recognition, optimize resources and increase cash flow. The services suite includes opportunity and bid management, CRM, resource and engagement management, project accounting, portfolio and performance management and collaborative commerce applications tailored for specific industries including financial services, audit and accountancy, architectural, engineering and construction, commercial research, not-for-profit organizations, software and computer services, professional services and management consulting. Beyond the targeted enterprise-wide solutions described above, Epicor also offers the following point solutions: Supply Chain Management (SCM)—Epicor’s supply chain management solutions enable companies to extend and optimize their enterprises and more effectively collaborate with their customers, suppliers and partners. From business-to-business e-commerce applications to advanced planning and scheduling to advanced warehouse management, forecasting and fulfillment, Epicor offers solutions that can improve operational performance, while strengthening relationships across the supply chain to increase customer value. Supplier Relationship Management (SRM)—Epicor’s supplier relationship management solutions include applications for strategic sourcing, procurement and spending analytics. These solutions are designed to enable an organization to reduce costs by driving inefficiencies out of the procurement process. They provide a complete web-based, buy-side commerce solution that can rapidly be deployed standalone or as part of an integrated enterprise solution. Customer Relationship Management (CRM)—Epicor’s award-winning customer relationship management solution is designed to enable small and midsize enterprises to manage their entire customer lifecycle. Epicor’s collaborative CRM solution enables businesses to gather, organize, track and share prospect, customer, competitor and product information, to boost revenues and increase customer satisfaction. Accounting and Finance—Epicor’s award-winning financial and accounting solutions provide a foundation for good fiscal governance and accurate financial performance through a combination of core ledger, cash and asset management, deferred revenue accounting and contract renewal and electronic payment facilities. IT Service Management (ITSM)—Epicor ITSM provides a robust set of service management features that support key IT processes as outlined by the Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) version 2 (ITIL v2) and version 3 (ITIL v3) and has been certified by Pink Elephant as ITIL Compatible in five key service management areas: incident management, problem management, change management, configuration management and service level management. 3 Table of Contents The Company’s software products incorporate a significant number of features localized to address international market opportunities, including support for multiple languages, multiple currencies and accounting for global taxation methods. The Company offers consulting, training and support services to supplement the use of its software products by its customers. Midmarket companies require cost effective systems that have broad functionality, yet are rapidly implemented, easily adapted and highly configurable to their unique business requirements. The Company was incorporated in Delaware in November 1987, under the name Platinum Holdings Corporation. In September 1992, the Company changed its name to Platinum Software Corporation. In April 1999, the Company changed its name to Epicor Software Corporation. The Company has thirteen active operating subsidiaries worldwide. As part of its business strategy, the Company has pursued acquisitions to expand its customer base, global product offering and geographic footprint. The acquisition of NSB Retail Systems PLC (NSB) (announced in December 2007 and completed in February 2008), CRS Retail Technology Group, Inc. (CRS) in 2005, Scala Business Solutions N.V. (Scala) in 2004 and ROI Systems, Inc. (ROI) in 2003 are typical of this ongoing strategy. NSB On December 17, 2007, the Company announced that the Epicor and NSB Boards of Directors reached agreement on the terms of the recommended acquisition of NSB by Epicor pursuant to a scheme of arrangement under section 425 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985. On February 7, 2008, Epicor completed the acquisition of NSB and shareholders of NSB received £0.38 in cash per NSB ordinary share. The terms of the transaction valued the fully diluted share capital of NSB at approximately £160 million (approximately $322 million USD, based on the US$:£ exchange rate on December 14, 2007). As of June 30, 2007, NSB had cash and equivalents balance of $34.6 million and no debt. NSB Group designs, develops, markets and supports store and merchandising solutions to leading retailers of apparel, footwear, and specialty merchandise. The acquisition of NSB provides an expanded portfolio of products and services for large specialty retailers and department stores, as well as a fully hosted, managed service offering designed for smaller and mid-sized retailers who are interested in rapid implementation via an on-demand versus on-premise offering. NSB products are developed on the Microsoft ..NET platform and are highly complementary to the Company’s retail products. CRS In December 2005, pursuant to a stock purchase agreement, the Company acquired CRS, a privately held company. CRS designs, develops, markets and supports software, hardware and services that assist general merchandise and specialty retail companies in increasing sales, improving customer service and reducing operating costs. CRS applications leverage Microsoft® and Java technologies and have over 50,000 in-store systems installed in 32 countries and 10 languages. The CRS acquisition provides existing customers new, complementary product offerings and creates expanded opportunities in the hospitality and retail vertical, particularly in key international markets through increased marketing, improved sales execution, enhanced viability and worldwide sales and support infrastructure. The Company recorded the acquisition of CRS as a purchase in 2005, and the results of CRS’s operations are included in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations from the date of acquisition. Scala In June 2004, Epicor acquired Scala, a publicly held software company headquartered in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, by means of an exchange offer made for all of the outstanding ordinary shares of Scala. Scala designs, develops, markets and supports collaborative ERP software (iScala) that is used by the small- and medium-size divisions and subsidiaries of large multinational corporations, as well as by independent stand-alone companies in developed and emerging markets. Scala’s solutions are based on a Web services platform and utilize Microsoft® technologies. Scala’s software and services support local currencies and accounting regulations, are available in more than 30 languages and are used by customers in over 140 countries. In addition to complementary product offerings, the Scala acquisition provided the Company with a significantly expanded worldwide presence. The Company recorded the acquisition of Scala as a purchase in 2004, and the results of Scala’s operations are included in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations from the date of acquisition. 4 Table of Contents Background Epicor designs its products and services primarily for midmarket companies and the divisions and subsidiaries of Global 1000 enterprises, which generally consist of companies with annual revenues between $10 million and $1 billion, and emerging enterprises, which generally consist of rapidly growing businesses with annual revenues under $25 million. In the past, midmarket companies were underserved by smaller “best-of-breed” applications or traditional financial and ERP systems that had originally been designed for larger corporations. These large enterprise systems, though highly functional, were also extremely complex and expensive to purchase, install, integrate and maintain. Further, the complexity of the infrastructure and ongoing maintenance to support these systems often required a centralized deployment model. This limited access to critical data to the organization's information technology (IT) department, which then limited timely availability of information to decision makers, managers and key employees. Moreover, these mostly proprietary systems provided little flexibility or adaptability to the constantly evolving requirements of midmarket companies. Beginning in the early 1990s, as Global 1000 companies aggressively invested in information technology to help them streamline and integrate disparate business processes, they created a tremendous demand in their operating subsidiaries and the small to mid-size enterprise (SME) market for enterprise-wide software applications that integrated business processes and information. Initially, only larger organizations had the technological expertise, budget and ability to support the lengthy implementations typified by the early solutions. While SMEs understood the business value of enterprise applications, they lacked the extensive resources required to implement and support such first-generation solutions. In their quest to boost productivity and profits as well as to gain a competitive advantage, mid-sized companies have increasingly turned to integrated application software to automate and link their business processes. The Company believes that due to the midmarket's unique business constraints of limited budgets and rapid implementation timeframes, “best-of-breed” solutions and after-market application integrations are far too complex and costly to offer an effective enterprise solution. As a group, mid-sized companies face tremendous global competitive pressures as they compete for business against larger corporations, other mid-sized competitors and smaller start-ups. They generally understand the need to remain close to their customers and suppliers, while making the most effective use of relatively limited resources. Mid-sized companies frequently demand a quick return on technology investments and require that solutions be affordable – not only to acquire and implement, but also to maintain and support – throughout their entire operational life span. Epicor’s experience has been that mid-sized companies are practical consumers with respect to technology, typically selecting affordable, proven solutions. The dramatic decrease in information technology costs over the past decade, coupled with a simultaneous increase in computing power, has made key new technologies accessible to this cost-conscious market. Microsoft Corporation took advantage of increased computing capabilities to develop Microsoft BackOffice® (now the Microsoft Windows Server family), a robust network operating system and scalable relational database that provides smaller businesses with a sophisticated technology infrastructure previously accessible only to Global 1000 corporations. Microsoft has quickly become the fastest growing technology platform and is particularly attracting midmarket companies with its features, familiarity and ease-of-use. The recent development of more cost-effective, adaptable and agile infrastructures, such as the emergence of SOA and technologies like Microsoft .NET and Web services, is also driving mid-sized companies to increase their investment in enterprise applications. Unlike monolithic, tightly-coupled systems of the past, SOA and Web services provide the ability to create highly functional applications through the assembly or collection of loosely-coupled, self-describing business services. This standards-based design approach provides a secure, scalable, unified design framework that allows both developers and information workers to more easily access, combine and reuse software application functionality. With an SOA, businesses have the ability to more easily and efficiently align their information systems and technology resources, allowing them the ability to respond more quickly to continually changing business requirements. Epicor’s early adoption of Microsoft .NET and Web services technology allows its product offerings, development and services to leverage the benefits of SOA and provide growing mid-sized businesses with increased flexibility, inter-operability and cross-platform capability. These capabilities are extremely important as the market for Enterprise Applications continues to grow worldwide. 5 Table of Contents Industry Analyst Market Growth Projections According to the press release “AMR Research Releases Enterprise Applications Market Sizing Reports,” dated July 11, 2007, “ERP vendor revenue across all segments is expected to grow from $28.8B in 2006 to $47.7B by 2011.” In addition, “The Midsize Enterprise ERP Spending Report, 2007-2008,” published December 10, 2007 by AMR Research states that “midsize enterprises will increase ERP budgets by 5.1% in 2008 by 2010, 43% of companies would like to employ a single, global financial and shared services ERP system.” Industry Segments and Geographic Information Epicor’s reportable operating segments include license fees, consulting, maintenance and other. For the purposes of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, “Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information,” a breakout of the Company’s sales by segment is provided in Note 13 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” A summary of the Company’s sales by geographic region is incorporated herein by reference to Note 13 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Technology Strategy The Company's technology strategy is to develop leading enterprise software applications using industry-standard tools where possible, and to take advantage of leading third-party, industry-standard technologies for database management systems, operating systems, user interfaces, infrastructure and connectivity (including internet, intranet and extranet access). As the Company continues to deliver enterprise application solutions, it is increasingly focused on leveraging new technology platforms and standards, like Web services, which support the integration of computing and communication paradigms as one across multiple devices. For businesses to compete in today’s increasingly real-time world, they need to adopt an infrastructure that can integrate the internet, wireless, mobile, voice response and personal digital assistants (PDA) to support business “anytime, anywhere.” Computing platforms, like Microsoft .NET, allow Epicor enterprise solutions to adopt SOA, and support commerce in a distributed computing world. The Company will continue to focus on leveraging emerging and industry-standard technologies to provide rapid return on investment and lower overall total cost of ownership for the Company’s customers. Today, the Company's core product architecture incorporates the following: Architecture The Company’s product architecture is designed to help its customers and partners economically deploy, tailor and integrate highly functional industry applications to suit their specific business processes and requirements. A key focus of the architecture strategy is the development and enhancement of client frameworks that allows both companies and individuals to optimize labor-intensive data management tasks. The Company also continues to enhance its SOA strategy across its product lines, which enables enterprises to incorporate new and existing software applications more seamlessly, better leverage their existing IT assets and implement new industry processes and best practices more fully. The Company also invests in software tools, architectures and frameworks focused on consistent, high quality code and developer productivity across its world-wide development organization. Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) The Company has built its SOA around three pillars: application programming interface (API), orchestration and business process management (BPM). APIs are essentially the building blocks of the system, as they are the conventions, protocols and semantics that define how a software service, function, process or application is invoked or accessed. APIs provide consistency and flexibility by ensuring that all programs using a common API will have similar interfaces. The Company’s API’s are highly granular in nature and comply with Web services standards to promote inter-operability and ease of integration. The Company believes providing both wide functionality coverage and open standards in its API is a significant benefit to customers. Orchestration is the process of coordinating work between systems inside and outside the enterprise and is central to electronic commerce and other distributed computing scenarios. The Company’s orchestration product is Epicor Service Connect for its Enterprise, Epicor for Service Enterprises, iScala, Clientele, Vantage and Vista products. Business process management (BPM) capabilities, which allow enterprises to redirect application logic without customizing the application code, have a dual purpose. The first is to define relevant business events and establish notifications to users, other applications and (importantly) workflow management systems. The second is to define business constraints that either warn or inhibit applications from processing transactions under specific conditions. The Company’s Epicor for Service Enterprises, iScala, Clientele, Vantage and Vista include BPM solutions. 6 Table of Contents Web Services The Company is increasingly using Web services to enable its solutions to be integrated with other applications more easily and to support the increased need for collaboration in today’s Internet-based world. Web services are self-describing software components that allow the creation of applications that can be programmed and published over the Web. Since Web services are portable and interoperable and because they are not vendor specific, they are rapidly becoming a standard for integrating disparate systems and applications. Epicor has standardized its Web services development on the Microsoft .NET Framework. The Company’s Clientele CRM.NET, CRS RetailStore, Epicor for Service Enterprises, iScala, Vantage and Vista product suites have been architected for Web services. The Epicor Enterprise, iScala, Vantage and Vista product suites further leverage Web services to more easily integrate and securely share information throughout the enterprise and with customers and suppliers. Open Database Technology The Company utilizes open database technology to provide extremely flexible, integrated, enterprise business applications. This open database orientation is based on widely accepted database management systems. The Company’s Clientele, CRS, Enterprise, Epicor for Service Enterprises, iScala, Vantage and Vista product suites use the Microsoft SQL Server relational database management system (RDBMS). The Company has focused the development of its Enterprise and iScala product lines using Microsoft’s industry-standard SQL language as the fundamental database access methodology for both transaction processing and analytics. The Company designs Vantage and Vista for either the Microsoft SQL Server platform or Progress Software Corporation’s Progress RDBMS. The Company’s Clientele suite leverages both the Microsoft Access and Microsoft SQL Server databases. The Company’s Avanté, CRS Merchandising and Manage 2000 products leverage open database technology from IBM Corporation. The Company has chosen these open databases in order to maximize the throughput of its customers’ transactions, to provide realistic models of business data and to maximize price performance under the budget and resource constraints typical of its primary market sector. Industry Standard User Interfaces The Company has incorporated numerous features into its user interfaces to simplify the operation of, and access to, its products. All of the Company’s product lines incorporate the popular Microsoft Windows graphical user interface (GUI). The Company's GUI tools include industry-standard field controls, pull-down menus, tool bars and tab menus that facilitate the use of the software. The Company's products incorporate many of the latest and most advanced GUI features such as process wizards, cue cards, advanced on-line help and on-line documentation. As the model for distributed computing continues to evolve through the advent of Internet technologies, the Company offers additional client deployment models, including thin-client, smart-client, browser-based and mobile client access. Powerful Application Development Tools The Company provides comprehensive application development, extension and customization capabilities for its Enterprise, Epicor for Service Enterprises, iScala, Clientele, Vantage, Vista, Avanté and Manage 2000 product lines. To accomplish this, the Company provides extensive, integrated application development environments for these product lines. These customization tools deliver a complete development environment, enabling a user to make changes ranging from a simple field name change to building an integrated custom application. Although significant customization can be supported, the Company attempts to minimize customization of its products by delivering high functionality, industry focused templates and best practices coupled with application tailoring capabilities and SOA which provides for significant flexibility in the look and feel, business process, reporting and workflow of the application. Enterprise Platform Strategy The Company’s technology direction currently embraces the Microsoft.NET Framework for XML-based Web services, networking architecture and graphical user interface components. Through .NET, the Company provides comprehensive support for Web services deployment and Enterprise Application Integration (EAI). With .NET and the XML standard for data exchange, Epicor provides increased access to information both within and between organizations – no matter where their offices or employees are located. This technology strategy can enable the Company’s development teams to leverage Microsoft technology, while allowing each product family 7 Table of Contents to continue to utilize the individual databases and development tools appropriate to the requirements of each product’s target market. As a Microsoft Gold Certified Partner and an early adopter of the .NET platform, and most recently Windows Vista, Epicor is able to leverage its expertise with Microsoft technology to benefit their customers worldwide. Industry Strategy Epicor industry solutions provide focused software, services and industry knowledge designed specifically for the unique requirements of target industry sectors and vertical markets. Historically, large enterprise application vendors have created vertical industry applications and practices designed for the Global 1000 in industries such as automotive, retail, government and healthcare. However, for midmarket companies in these industries, these vertical offerings are often too expensive and overly complex for their requirements. More importantly, many midmarket companies are not necessarily part of a traditional vertical market, but rather have specific processes, best practices and highly specialized functionality that are critical to their success. Epicor industry solutions enable customers to leverage a solution tailored to the unique needs of their market, as well as focused industry expertise through the Company’s professional services organization. Epicor industry solutions are additionally complemented by strategic relationships with key partners to provide product extensions and domain expertise as part of an integrated, end-to-end solution. Customers can benefit through solutions that are easier to implement, easier to use and require less customization than a horizontal solution. Epicor industry solutions target Manufacturing, Distribution, Retail and Hospitality, and Services sectors and industries and verticals within each sector. Epicor industry solutions includes Epicor for Service Enterprises, a Microsoft .NET Web services-based ERP for Services solution for global midmarket and enterprise service firms. Epicor for Service Enterprises is designed expressly for midmarket service organizations to streamline business processes, empower them to expand their value chain, grow revenue and drive efficiency benefits to the bottom line. Whether it is a professional services organization (PSO), embedded service organization (ESO) or internal services organizations (ISO), the Company believes that Epicor for Service Enterprises provides a comprehensive ERP for Services solution that is designed to offer strategic value with a quick return on investment. Epicor for Service Enterprises offers packaged vertical options for the professional services industry in areas such as audit and accountancy; architecture, engineering, and construction; software and computer services; management consulting; and marketing, advertising and communications. Epicor industry solutions includes Epicor Senior Living Solution (Epicor SLS), which is specifically designed for providers of aged care services to clients either in their own home, at a specialized aged care facilities or senior retirement villages. Epicor SLS manages the process from enquiry, entry into care, ongoing management and departure. Products The Company designs, develops, markets and supports enterprise software applications that provide mid-sized organizations and divisions of Global 1000 companies with industry specific, highly functional, technically advanced business solutions. The Company’s products are aligned according to the markets that they serve – Distribution and Services (Enterprise), Industrial (iScala), Manufacturing and Supply Chain (Vantage, Vista, Avanté and Manage 2000), Retail (CRS and NSB) and Customer Relationship Management and ITSM (Clientele). Distribution and Services - Epicor Enterprise Epicor Enterprise (incorporates products formerly named e by Epicor, Platinum ERA and Clientele), an integrated, customer-centric suite of client/server and Web-based ERP software applications, is designed to meet the unique business needs of midsized companies worldwide (including divisions and subsidiaries of larger corporations). Epicor Enterprise is typically targeted to either distribution or service-based businesses with revenues between $25 million and $1 billion annually. These organizations require the functional depth and sophistication of traditional high-end enterprise business applications, but desire a rapid and cost-effective product implementation. Epicor Enterprise is optimized for use with the Microsoft Windows operating system and the Microsoft SQL Server relational database. Epicor Enterprise leverages XML Web services to enable more robust integration with other applications within and external to the enterprise. In addition to the availability of XML Web services, 8 Table of Contents Epicor Enterprise supports various industry standard technologies, including Microsoft Message Queue Services (MSMQ), Transaction Services and COM+ architecture, which along with XML documents, improves componentization and support reliable message-based integration between applications and distributed servers. Microsoft Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) is also included to enhance client customization and to facilitate integration with third-party applications. In addition, the Financials Suite and SCM Suite utilizes a 32-bit client that has been optimized for the Microsoft SQL Server database (running in either 32-bit or native 64-bit mode) in order to leverage the capabilities of the client/server model of computing. This implementation results in a substantial reduction in network traffic as compared to other client/server approaches and provides scalable high performance. Project Suite was developed in the Company’s Internet Component Environment (ICE), a SOA built with Microsoft .NET and Web service technology. ICE is also available to customers to create customizations and extensions using ubiquitous tools like Visual Studio .NET. Epicor Enterprise includes the following application suites: CRM Suite, Financials Suite, Supply Chain Management Suite, Portal Suite, Business Intelligence Suite, Project Suite, Payroll/Human Resources and industry-specific solutions delivered for a variety of markets. • CRM Suite (Sales Force Automation, Marketing Automation, Customer Service and Support, IT Service Management) provides integrated CRM capabilities that are tightly integrated with the Financials Suite and SCM Suite. This integrated approach to CRM enables companies to have a 360-degree view of their customer relationships. The CRM Suite is the integrated version of the Company’s Clientele product suite and includes Sales and Marketing, Case Management, Customer Service and Support and Self-Service, empowering organizations to focus on the right opportunities while providing access to timely information. Sales and Marketing provides contact, lead, opportunity and account management in one package. Support manages the support requirements of an organization’s external customers and provides call management, product tracking, RMA tracking, call queuing/follow-up and problem resolution. • Financials Suite (General Ledger and Financial Reporting, Accounts Receivable, Credit and Collections, Lockbox, Accounts Payable, Electronic Funds Transfer, Cash Management, Automated AP Matching, Sales Tax Management and Asset Management) comprises an integrated accounting solution that enables a company to automate the financial aspects of their business. Presently the following back office financial applications are generally available in version 7.3.6: System Manager, General Ledger, Average Daily Balances, Accounts Receivable, Accounts Payable, Cash Management, Multi-Currency Manager, Asset Management, Import Manager, Credit and Collections, Lockbox, Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT), Advanced Allocations, Automated AP Matching, Sales Tax Management and Customization Workbench. • SCM Suite (Distribution, Procurement, Sourcing, Storefront, Warehouse Management, Assembly) is a comprehensive solution designed to improve the efficiency and responsiveness of a company’s operations. It enables companies to effectively manage their distribution operations, including purchasing, quality control, inventory, logistics and the order management cycle. The customer-centric focus of Epicor Enterprise enables companies to respond quickly to customer demands and improve customer service. The integration of Financials Suite and SCM Suite with the rest of the Epicor Enterprise products helps to ensure that a company’s entire enterprise is synchronized — from the customer to the warehouse to the supplier. Presently the following distribution applications are generally available in version 7.3.6: Sales Order Processing, Inventory Management, Purchasing, Distribution, Assembly, Royalties, Promotions and Rebates. • Supply Chain Execution (Warehouse Management System and Data Collection Suite), extends the distribution functionality for the SCM Suite to supply chain execution processes. These applications are tightly integrated with SCM Suite so that information is available in real-time. Data Collection Suite (DCS) provides wireless shop floor data collection, radio frequency identification (RFID) and the use of bar code technology to track inventory from the time it enters a facility until it is shipped to a customer, as well as additional warehouse management capabilities. Warehouse Management System (WMS) enables a company to streamline order fulfillment, closely track inventory, manage third-party logistics (3PL) and prioritize resources on the shop floor. • SCM Suite also includes the Supplier Relationship Management (SRM) Suite which consists of Sourcing, Procurement and Spend Analysis. Sourcing provides a comprehensive solution for strategic control of sourcing, purchasing and selling activities from complex auctioning and dynamic pricing to optimizing trading partners, terms, goods and services. Sourcing provides a highly configurable framework with the 9 Table of Contents flexibility to rapidly deploy collaborative RFP/RFI/RFQ (RFx) and comprehensive forward and reverse auction capabilities. Sourcing is designed to streamline manual processes to rapidly locate, source and transact with qualified suppliers and eliminate the inefficiencies in the RFx process for direct, indirect and spot purchasing. Procurement enables the streamlined integration of the entire procurement process. It provides employee-direct requisitioning and purchasing, catalog management, supplier management and policy enforcement. This integrated e-commerce application enables organizations to gain and improve control of operational resources by leveraging the Internet to connect large populations of frontline employees, management and suppliers. Procurement provides a complete planning, execution and analysis system, designed to reduce costs, increase agility, and perform predictably. Procurement facilitates a trading network, allowing buyers and suppliers to maintain control over their trading relationships and provides a virtual bridge between buyers and suppliers. Procurement also includes an integrated budget and commitment tracking feature that gives requisitioners and approvers a comprehensive view of their commitments inside and outside of procurement relative to approved budgets. • Storefront enables Epicor’s customers to sell products and services over the Web, providing consumers and trading partners a convenient 24/7 order entry mechanism for making purchases. By supporting both B2B and B2C activity, Storefront is a versatile engine that can handle many requirements of a company. Through Storefront, companies can rapidly and cost-effectively introduce new products, enter new markets or simply provide electronic access to a catalog of standard products, which can free up salespeople to focus on more complex transactions. The business data entered over the Internet is captured and used by the other Epicor applications. • Project Suite, a component of the Epicor for Service Enterprises industry solution, offers comprehensive project and portfolio management and delivery management capabilities to support the planning and execution of service engagements. Engagements can be structured through user-definable work breakdown structures, and an organization-wide resource service can be called upon as needed to match the right personnel to the right task at the right time—anywhere across the enterprise. Project Suite leverages XML technologies to support bidirectional integration to Microsoft Enterprise Project Management as part of an end-to-end project management solution. Project Suite includes Resource Management, Engagement Management, Project Accounting, Contract Management and Performance Management. • Portal Suite is a Web-based enterprise information portal (EIP) offering a self-service solution designed to help customers, suppliers and employees access relevant information from both within the enterprise (such as account information and support activities) and from external sources (industry information, news feeds, weather, etc). Portal Suite consists of a Portal framework based on Microsoft SharePoint products and technologies, which is enriched by role-based access and content-specific information packs (e.g. customer content, supplier content and employee content). Portal Suite provides a gateway to the information users require to carry out their jobs more effectively, while assisting them with decision support. Portal Suite makes use of the popular SharePoint personalization paradigm to allow each user’s experience to be tailored and filtered to their specific function or role to minimize “information overload.” • Epicor Enterprise also includes several tools that help customers maintain, audit and extend their Epicor system, while reducing total cost of ownership. These tools are Service Connect, DBAudit, Customization Workbench, Import Manager and Epicor Integration Hub. Epicor Service Connect enables collaboration between applications, suppliers and customers. DBAudit provides the ability to detect database changes and report on who made the addition, modification and/or deletion and when. Customization Workbench provides a toolset for creating custom forms, database objects and logic to meet specialized customer requirements. Import Manager and Epicor Integration Hub provide the ability to exchange data between Epicor Enterprise and other systems via SQL and XML while adhering to the data validation and business rules defined in Epicor Enterprise. • Business Intelligence Suite is an integrated decision support suite offering a complete set of tools that allows a company to strategically analyze the data available throughout Epicor Enterprise. Business Intelligence Suite comprises the following components: DecisionStore (data warehousing), Explorer AI and BI Web Parts (OLAP visualization and packaged key performance indicators that drive strategic insights), Active Planner (active, continuous planning and forecasting, and enterprise performance management), Microsoft FRx (financial reporting), transaction reporting, ad hoc queries and agents/alerts. 10 Table of Contents • UltiPro Workforce Management (a Payroll/HRMS solution offered via a reseller relationship with Ultimate Software) provides a complete workforce management solution. This solution is designed to allow a company to streamline human resource and payroll processes, report on and analyze key business metrics and provide Web-based self-service to empower its employees. Business intelligence tools, such as UltiPro Workforce Management, enable strategic analysis of key business trends for better planning and informed decision-making. Ultimate Software’s UltiPro Workforce Management solution is available as a common component with the following Epicor product families: Epicor Enterprise and Avanté. Industrial - iScala iScala is an integrated ERP, CRM and SCM solution targeting the divisions and subsidiaries of Global 1000 corporations and large local and regional companies worldwide. iScala’s collaborative functionality, country-specific localizations and multi-language capabilities are designed to support global, multi-company deployments with significant cross-border trading requirements. iScala is targeted to meet the unique needs of companies in industry segments including: Pharmaceutical, Chemical and Allied Products, Industrial Machinery, Light Engineering, Automotive Components, Consumer Goods and Hospitality. iScala enables Global 1000 enterprises to standardize their plants and operating divisions on a single system, while supporting country specific localizations and languages at each site. This allows a corporate headquarters consistent visibility of plant information and operations, as well as the ability to support the implementation of consistent procedures, practices and controls worldwide. iScala is optimized for use with the Microsoft Windows 2000/2003 operating system and the Microsoft SQL Server 2000/2005 relational database. iScala leverages XML Web services to enable integration with other applications within and external to the enterprise. In addition to the availability of XML Web services, iScala supports various industry standard technologies, including Microsoft Message Queue Services, Transaction Services and COM+ architecture, which, along with XML documents, improves componentization and support reliable message-based integration between applications and distributed servers. iScala can be configured as an Enterprise Server version targeted at multi-site operations or as a Business Server version targeted at single-site operations. Each server version consists of the following optional suites and components: Financials (General Ledger, Sales Ledger, Purchase Ledger, Promissory Notes, Cash Flow Forecasting), Asset Management, CRM, Sales Order Management, SCM (Material Management, Warehouse Management, Manufacturing, Purchase Management, Requisition Management, Supply Chain Tools, Warehouse Data Collection), Service Contract Management, Purchase Contract Management, Sales Contract Management, Project Management, Service Management and Payroll. In addition to these application components, Epicor Service Connect enables collaboration between applications, suppliers and customers, and the iScala Business Intelligence Server offers a suite of analytical and reporting tools designed to convert data into information that can be presented by the web, portals, Windows or Office 2003 documents. • iScala’s global functionality and numerous country-specific localizations provide the ability to deliver a solution for over 140 countries with the local requirements for tax management, currency handling, language capabilities, statutory reporting, banking interfaces and asset depreciation rules. • Local and distributed multi-company capabilities enable customers to manage complex business infrastructures. Multiple companies on a single server or on a server farm (multiple local servers) can be consolidated across differing charts of accounts and differing currencies, as well as enabling inquiring or reporting across companies or sharing Accounts Receivable and Accounts Payable. Global calendar management enables the system to manage companies, customers, suppliers, engineers, warehouses and any other resources across multiple time-zones. Global Administration provides central IT staff with the ability to manage distributed iScala system assets anywhere in the world as if they were local, including system updates, user roles and security, menu configuration and databases. • iScala’s customization and personalization capabilities provide the ability to enhance the application through parameterized set-up, tailored documents, reports and user defined database fields. Users may have their own customized menus and screens in their own language, as well as their own queries, reports and business intelligence analytics. Microsoft Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) is also included to enhance client customization and facilitate integration with third-party applications. • iScala’s implementation of Epicor Service Connect provides collaboration and integration between subsidiaries and their corporate headquarters, and to customers and suppliers to support integrated supply chain trading. Collaboration provides visibility through a web-based portal, transaction exchange and system-to-system connectivity. Workflow management is designed to maximize the automation of standard processes with events and alerts to handle exceptions. 11 Table of Contents Manufacturing and Supply Chain The Company’s manufacturing applications include Vantage, Vista, Avanté, and Manage 2000. Vantage is an integrated ERP solution built on a SOA that meets the dynamic requirements of discrete mixed-mode manufacturers who have lean or ‘to-order’ manufacturing requirements and increasing distribution and fulfillment needs. Vantage handles many manufacturing philosophies simultaneously including make-to-order, configure-to-order, engineer-to-order, make-to-stock and flow manufacturing. Vantage is designed as an easy-to-use, yet comprehensive solution that enables manufacturers to leverage their resources through its tools for customer relationship management, estimating, visual scheduling, job tracking and costing, as well as shop floor data collection. Vantage can manage enterprises from a single site, to multiple locations, to large global multi-company enterprises whose systems span multiple servers and databases across different geographies and languages. Vantage is comprised of more than 25 integrated business modules and offers a complete solution, from front office functionality including sales force automation and customer support, to advanced planning and scheduling, supplier relationship management, advanced quality management, product lifecycle management and a complete e-business suite including customer, supplier and partner portals. Vantage provides strong scheduling and online information access capabilities. With its graphical scheduling tools and “what-if” simulation, Vantage enables users to create and execute realistic production schedules, based on the available resources, and react quickly and efficiently to schedule changes. Vantage is comprised of groups of modules or suites that can be differently configured to comprehensively support a manufacturer’s or distributor’s unique business processes. Vantage includes the following application suites: CRM, Sales Management, Customer Service Management, Product Data Management, Planning and Scheduling, Materials Management, Financial Management, eBusiness Suite and Business Performance Management. • CRM (Contact Management, Marketing, Sales) is an integrated solution for controlling a company’s interaction with its customers and prospective customers, from building, executing and tracking campaigns through lead generation and opportunity development, configuring quotations and managing pipelines and forecasts. Through use of the Internet and Microsoft Office integration, Vantage CRM affords customers increased visibility and participation in the entire value chain process. • Sales Management (Estimate and Quote Management, Order Management, Rebates) streamlines the sales process and assists in coordinating activities between sales, plant/warehouse operations, shipping and accounting. It facilitates more efficient management of inventory visibility, pricing, shipping, invoicing and commissions and provides tools to produce more accurate estimates, streamline the quote-to-cash cycle and improve customer service. • Customer Service Management (Support, Help Desk, Return Material Authorization, Field Service) provides a collaborative framework for streamlining service operations. It helps create a 360-degree view of a company’s customers to assist in the diagnosis and resolution of inquiries, cases, change requests and issues related to support or service contracts and service-level agreements. • Product Data Management (Product Costing, Routings, Engineering Change and Revision Control, Product Configuration) serves as a central knowledge repository for process and product history. Its modules help promote integration, data exchange, increased control and communication across all constituents of the value chain (internal and external) that interact with the products. • Planning and Scheduling (Forecasting and Master Production Scheduling, Material Requirements Planning, Scheduling, Advanced Planning & Scheduling, Project Management, Global Multi-Site Management) offers flexible planning and scheduling solutions to help global make-to-order, make-to-stock and mixed-mode manufacturers manage the complexity of their size and resources to improve response times and drive growth. 12 Table of Contents • Production Management (Job Management, Lean Manufacturing, Manufacturing Execution, Quality Assurance, Product Lifecycle Management, Advanced Quality Management, Data Collection and Hand-held, Advanced Bill of Materials, Document Management) includes modules and sophisticated technologies to help model best practices and empower shop floor personnel to make the decisions that can help to optimize production processes. • Materials Management (Advanced Material Management, Inventory Management, Shipping/Receiving, Supplier Relationship Management, Purchase Management, Pack Out Management, Auto Label/RFID Print Control) helps increase supply chain visibility and remove non-value added processes. By synchronizing processes throughout its value chain, a company can improve its ability to meet customer demands, provide faster delivery and lower costs. • Financial Management (Accounts Receivable, Accounts Payable, General Ledger, Currency Management, Payroll, Fixed Asset Management, Multi-National Management, FRx Financial Reporting, Active Planner Budgeting, Planning and Forecasting) provides manufacturers with a complete suite of modules to support the collection, monitoring and reporting of their financial information; maximizing visibility, increasing performance and improving cash flow. The FRx Financial Reporting and the Active Planner Budgeting, Planning and Forecasting modules are common component applications that are also available with the Company’s Enterprise and iScala products. • eBusiness Suite (Customer Connect, Supplier Connect, Sales Connect, Mobile Connect, EDI) leverages the Internet with Web applications like Customer Storefront, to help keep global enterprises connected with their entire network of trading partners: anytime, anywhere. • Business Performance Management (Business Intelligence, Portal, Information Worker, Service Connect, Dashboard) provides reporting and analysis, real-time business activity monitoring (BAM) and workflow based on defined events, rules and/or established tolerances that can generate actions and alerts for transactions, metrics or processes. Vantage BPM enables increased collaboration, flow of information and better decision support between users, applications, suppliers and customers. The Vantage Business Performance Suite includes the following common component applications which are also available with the Company’s Enterprise and iScala products: Information Worker (IW) increases productivity by enabling users to work more efficiently by incorporating line-of-business information within Microsoft Office. Using service-oriented principles and Microsoft .NET-based technologies, IW utilizes the Microsoft Office system to enhance the user experience and interaction with Epicor applications through familiar Office desktop productivity tools. With IW, users are able to synchronize Microsoft Office Outlook® contacts, appointments and tasks with Epicor applications and data, such as customer information, sales history, inventory levels and production schedules both online and offline. Portal Suite is a Web-based enterprise information portal, offering a self-service solution designed to help customers, suppliers and employees access relevant information from both within the enterprise (such as account information support activities) and from external sources (industry information, news feeds, weather, etc). Portal Suite consists of a Portal framework based on Microsoft SharePoint products and technologies, which is enriched by role-based access and content-specific information packs (e.g. customer content, supplier content and employee content). Service Connect is a business integration platform which functions as a central point for secure workflow orchestrations within Epicor Vantage, as well as external connectivity to Epicor and non-Epicor applications. Business components, represented as Web services outside of the application, can be orchestrated within Service Connect to eliminate non-value added steps, increase efficiencies and speed up processes. Service Connect provides collaboration and integration between subsidiaries and their corporate headquarters, as well as to customers and suppliers, to support integrated supply chain trading. Vantage is optimized for the rapid deployment, minimal support and price/performance requirements of midmarket manufacturers. Vista is an enterprise software solution specifically designed for the needs of smaller job shops, emerging manufacturers and the make-to-order departments of larger businesses that have less developed infrastructures, lower IT budgets, require a shorter deployment period and seek established, user-friendly products. Vista fully 13 Table of Contents integrates over 20 business modules including: Customer Connect, EDI, Contact Management, Quotes, Orders, Shipping/Receiving, Jobs, Scheduling, Data Collection, Quality Assurance, Advanced Bill of Materials, Document Management, Inventory, Purchasing, Advanced Inventory Management, Purchasing RFQ, Accounts Receivable, Accounts Payable, General Ledger, Payroll, Currency Management and Dashboard. CRM – Clientele Clientele is an integrated CRM solution designed to meet the needs of rapidly growing, small and mid-sized organizations. Clientele combines employee applications, such as opportunity management, with customer applications, such as Web-based order entry/inquiry, to provide companies and customers a true, up-to-the-minute picture of their relationship. Clientele CRM is comprised of Clientele Customer Support, which provides call management, product tracking, RMA tracking, call queuing/follow-up and problem resolution and Clientele Sales and Marketing, which provides contact, lead, opportunity and account management. Clientele offers additional applications designed to extend the suite’s functionality, including Conductor, Connector and Epicor Portal. Conductor provides workflow routing and rules capabilities that allow any user to receive messages and tasks from the front office system. Connector enables remote sites and sales and support representatives in the field to connect to their master front office database and synchronize customer information, providing timely information whether the user is at headquarters, a remote site or on the road. • Clientele CRM.NET suite is the first CRM application built completely on Microsoft’s .NET Platform. A smart client application, Clientele CRM.NET uses the Internet to interact with XML Web services, providing access to data according to specific business rules. Clientele CRM.NET leverages XML Web services to enable integration with other applications within and external to the enterprise. • Clientele CRM.NET uses Microsoft Visual Studio .NET as its standard customization tool and can support extensions using any of the .NET-compatible programming languages. The enhanced customization model supports the development of new functionality by inheriting from existing forms and Web services templates. This allows custom enhancements and extensions to be isolated from source code, so future upgrades and migrations do not overwrite customizations. • Clientele CRM.NET Suite includes Clientele Customer Support, Clientele Sales and Clientele Self-Service Portal, which provide a browser-based user interface to support self-service to customers via the Internet. • Clientele Self-Service Portal enables customers to submit support calls as well as check on the status of existing calls, view their detailed product information and returned merchandise authorizations, or drill down into the usage and adjustment details of their service agreements directly over the Web. The Clientele Self-Service Portal is a companion product for Clientele CRM.NET Suite. The Clientele Suite also includes eMarketing, an e-mail marketing campaign manager and Advanced Surveys, a Web-based survey toolset (offered via a reseller relationship with Narragansett Technologies). IT Service Management (Epicor ITSM) Epicor ITSM provides a set of service management features designed to help support IT processes and operations as outlined by the IT Infrastructure Library (ITIL) which defines the detailed descriptions of key IT practices along with detailed the checklists, tasks and procedures for implementation in IT organizations. Epicor ITSM supports the key IT processes outlined by ITIL version 2 and version 3 and has been certified by Pink Elephant as ITIL compatible in five key service management areas: incident management, problem management, change management, configuration management and service level management. • Epicor ITSM Incident Management helps service desks restore normal operation of systems as quickly as possible. All incoming incidents are registered in Epicor ITSM and prioritized and incidents that require a specialist can be immediately escalated to the correct people. Incidents received by e-mail or the Web are registered automatically. Service desk customers can monitor their incident progress via e-mail or online. A knowledge base system allows service desks to build up a searchable set of knowledge and re-use that knowledge. 14 Table of Contents • Epicor ITSM Change Management helps organizations make changes to their IT infrastructure in a controlled way. Epicor ITSM provides a method for requesting the appropriate change and ensuring it receives appropriate approvals, while tracking how long it takes to implement the change. ITSM provides Change Approval Board members with goal-oriented options for implementing a change in a controlled fashion. • Epicor ITSM Configuration Management provides insight into IT infrastructure assets and tracks hardware, software and other IT infrastructure components. Configuration management also provides the opportunity to record financial data associated with configurations and products. Purchase value, depreciation term, value after depreciation, warranty date and installation date are captured and tracked. Costs can be allocated to budget holders, departments or sister companies to make IT costs more transparent. • Epicor ITSM Problem Management ensures that incidents are not solved without their underlying cause being eliminated. ITSM allows a company to link several incidents to a problem. Once the problem has been solved and closed, all related incidents can be automatically closed. • Epicor ITSM Service Level Management measures the level of service provided by recording service agreements and costs. Service Level Agreements (SLA) are recorded per configuration or per contact (end user or department). When an incident or problem is accepted, the applicable SLA can be consulted. The response times included in the SLA are used to monitor queuing and lead times. Aside from providing suites to manage IT service processes in five services area, Epicor ITSM provides a self-service portal and business intelligence solution. The solution is built using Microsoft Visual Studio and Microsoft .NET Framework. Retail Epicor|CRS Retail Suite The Epicor CRS Retail Suite integrates retail management software, along with hardware and services, to provide a comprehensive solution for specialty and general merchandise retailers. Designed for integration and scalability, the Epicor CRS Retail Suite can support a wide variety of retail enterprise requirements from the rapidly expanding regional retailer requiring point-of-sale (POS), store operations and merchandising, to the large, global retailer requiring central management, visibility and control over hundreds or thousands of stores and outlets. The Epicor CRS Retail Suite can assist retailers in integrating their sales channels, order management, pricing, inventory and customers to more effectively manage a real-time, multi-channel enterprise. The Epicor CRS Retail Suite is comprised of groups of modules that can be configured to support the retailer’s complete business process, providing an integrated “post-to-host” experience from POS through the retail supply chain to the back office. The following applications are presently generally available in Epicor CRS Retail Suite: RetailStore POS, RetailStore Central, MobileStore, ReturnsManagement, EnterpriseSelling, RetailCRM, LossPrevention, SalesAudit, Merchandising and Learning Solutions. • RetailStore is a Microsoft .NET-based POS and back office store system designed to assist store personnel to provide a better customer experience and more effectively manage store operations. With a Web services-based SOA as its foundation, CRS RetailStore supports a wide variety of hardware platforms, while providing increased integration and connectivity between stores, corporate systems and other sales channels to enable key transactional information to be shared as it occurs. RetailStore offers a flexible, easy-to-configure user interface to meet the unique requirements of a store and provide more timely information to the store associate, while ensuring transaction integrity, performance and security. A complete store system includes store management operations, time and attendance, inventory management and reporting applications, as well as POS. Store Operations provides the store manager the flexibility to work on inventory, employee maintenance or other tasks while still monitoring the sales floor. 15 Table of Contents • MobileStore is designed to extend access to key store functionality and information beyond the cash register and manager workstation. Through wireless devices running the MobileStore application, store managers and sales associates can perform line busting, inventory control, item lookup, item locate and manager authorization, along with other key store functions, all remotely. • RetailStore Central provides comprehensive systems management solutions to chain store retailers requiring centralized control of store configuration profiles. Based on the Microsoft .NET Framework, RetailStore Central uses secure publish/subscriber-based technology to allow retail chains with hundreds to thousands of locations to monitor and manage their store system configurations and business rules more easily and with greater control. RetailStore Central provides control, monitoring and tracking of all unique changes, including those related to policies, procedures, payroll, security, marketing, taxes and inventory. Changes to RetailStore POS and back office configuration profiles can be managed remotely on a store-by-store basis or through user-defined store groupings without requiring IT resources or customizations. • RetailCRM is a complete CRM solution based on Microsoft .NET. By gathering and analyzing customer information from multiple channels, RetailCRM can deliver a more accurate and comprehensive view of the customer to provide sales associates and marketing teams with information to better serve customers and develop targeted campaigns and loyalty programs. Utilizing the data integration, analysis and reporting capabilities of Microsoft SQL Server 2005 and SQL Server Reporting Services, RetailCRM aggregates information on customer purchase history and shopping behavior across sales channels, enabling retailers to deliver a higher level of one-to-one marketing and personalized customer service at all points of customer interaction. • ReturnsManagement is a multi-channel, returns management application enabling retailers to ensure accurate refunds and reduce refund fraud, while improving customer service and employee compliance. • EnterpriseSelling combines real-time inventory and location management with a configurable order manager to integrate inventory transaction processing of multiple sales channels, allowing retailers to sell merchandise and satisfy customer demand from anywhere in the enterprise. • LossPrevention is an intuitive, browser-based application with powerful ad-hoc reporting and point and click analysis tools. At the home office or in the field, investigators can quickly identify suspicious patterns of activity, create and evaluate exception reports to track potentially fraudulent activity, investigate individual employee behavior and quickly build cases for prosecution or dismiss innocent activity. • Merchandising Suite is a set of applications that includes tools to manage items, inventory, purchase orders and pricing. Applications in the Merchandising Suite include DataWarehouse, Allocation, WarehouseManagement, TransfersPlus, Orders and Fulfillment and EComm. Merchandising Suite includes the tools for a company’s distribution center to ensure accurate receiving, replenishment, merchandising reporting and efficient distribution to the stores. Through detailed transaction logging, the SalesAudit module provides an unbroken audit trail of everything that happened in each store across each type of transaction for sales audit and loss prevention purposes. Detailed Customer Sales Analysis provides the information to build and broaden sales through your customer base. The Merchandising Suite also includes key applications for replenishment, reporting and interfaces for Accounting. • Retail Integration provides an integrated offering across the Epicor Enterprise Financials Suite and Epicor|CRS Merchandising Suite. Through Epicor Service Connect, a Web services-based business integration platform, a secure, auditable two-way integration is supported across the solutions. Service Connect functions as the central integration point for implementing secure workflow orchestrations within Epicor applications and with third-party applications to enhance collaboration and automate business processes. The Epicor|CRS Retail Integration provides the integration for feeding store-level information from merchandising to the financial application. 16 Table of Contents NSB Retail Suite The NSB Retail Suite integrates retail management software, along with hardware and services, to provide a comprehensive solution for fashion, apparel and specialist retailers, as well as for general merchandise and department stores. Designed for integration and scalability, the NSB Retail Suite is an end-to-end solution that can be delivered preconfigured to small single-store retailers for rapid implementation or as a hosted, managed services offering, which can bring all of the benefits of “big retailer” functionality to small and mid-sized retailers. As a best-of-breed point solution, NSB has been deployed into some of the largest multi-register chain and department store environments. The NSB Retail Suite is designed to help retailers choose, acquire and manage merchandise; engage and retain customers; and analyze and optimize sales to improve business operations and meet the evolving merchandise and service expectations of today’s multi-channel consumers. The NSB Retail Suite is comprised of modules that can be delivered and deployed best-of-breed, preconfigured or fully hosted. The following applications are presently generally available in NSB Retail Suite: Planning, Sourcing and Product Development, Merchandising, Store, Sales Analytics, and CRM Planning automates the creation and balancing of product and store plans to enable retailers to allocate store plans more quickly and easily. Retailers can also plan assortments by store with combined visual and numeric planning. Plans can be synchronized across the retail organization, which can help retailers to reduce inventory and increase turnover. Sourcing and Product Development powered by Momentis, streamlines sourcing processes which can help retailers bring products to market faster. With centralized workflow management for product development, collaborative vendor negotiation capability, production and logistics tracking, Sourcing and Product Development provides the retailers with key tools that can increase visibility and productivity and drive more efficient supply chain management. Merchandising is designed to synchronize all aspects of the retail cycle including planning, purchasing, receiving, pricing, inventory management, decision support, and warehousing. Merchandising is designed for scalability and support many users, stores and large volumes of data. Highly adaptable and easy to customize, Merchandising is compatible with a thin-client user interface for the web and includes powerful decision-support tools. The most recent release of Merchandising has components built on the Microsoft .NET architecture including a fully integrated Allocation and Replenishment module. Sales Analytics is designed for multichannel retailers and helps ensure the capture, tracking and relaying of accurate and timely transaction information throughout the retail enterprise. Acting as the central repository for all sales transactions, Sales Analytics is designed as an all-in-one data validation tool that can bridge the gap between the enterprise, store and other sales channels to help improve store operations and auditing productivity. Store is an award winning point of sale (POS) application that is designed to connect a retailer’s head office to their stores and other selling channels. Store has evolved in tandem with Microsoft’s standards-based component architecture. With the most recent version based on Microsoft .NET technology, Point of Sale is architected to produce and consume XML messages via Web services allowing retailers to connect components within the enterprise to more easily and better support thin-clients, real-time communications, wireless handheld terminals, customer loyalty, gift cards and Web access. CRM was designed as one of the first retail industry specific CRM applications and one of the first applications to integrate POS information for the sales associate and store management. CRM is designed to provide a central customer, sales and marketing repository, and to securely share customer information across the enterprise. CRM includes dashboards, key performance indicators (KPIs) and reporting templates. The CRM Customer Dashboard is created from a library of Web parts which provides a building-block approach that allows users to select the information that is meaningful to them and display it on a web page. Users can also add information from other sources to complement or enhance their Customer Dashboard. Reporting templates provide users access to preconfigured reports, as well as an extended set of analytical tools and capabilities. EnterpriseXpress is an integrated package of pre-configured solutions designed for retailers seeking to implement advanced systems across their enterprise, more quickly and cost-effectively. EnterpriseXpress is a preconfigured edition of the NSB Retail Suite which includes streamlined versions of the Merchandising, Sales Analytics and Planning applications, bundled with integrated hardware and services. StoreXpress, a preconfigured version of Retail Store that combines POS and store inventory with the strong integration capabilities of Microsoft .NET. 17 Table of Contents To support implementation of the NSB Retail Suite a wide range of services are available including: project management, requirements definition, system configuration, testing, and playback, pilot store installation and support, user training and standard documentation, standard data export for Sales Audit, communications setup and certification and post-pilot transition. Other Products The Company serves as an original equipment manufacturer, vendor or reseller for certain third-party software applications and pays royalties to various organizations in connection with the distribution of third-party software and the sale of products that incorporate third-party technologies. In addition, in certain cases, as part of solutions requested by customers of Avanté and CRS, the Company resells third-party computer hardware systems and related peripherals. Professional Services, Technical Support and Software Maintenance The Company’s professional services organization provides consulting services, managed services, outsourcing and hosting services to support the implementation and integration of the Company's software products, as well as education, training and other consulting and programming services. These professional services are rendered on a global basis. Professional services are generally provided on a time and materials basis, although the Company also provides fixed fee arrangements and occasional arrangements in which customer payments are tied to the achievement of specific milestones. Fixed fee or milestone-based contracts are based on developing mutually agreed upon project plans, which clearly define the activities that will be performed and the specific deliverables that will be produced, in accordance with predefined acceptance criteria. The Company believes its professional services, in conjunction with its current and planned product offerings, facilitates the licensing of technology to customers, stimulates demand for the Company’s products and provides a key market differentiator over many of its competitors as a single source vendor. The Company is committed to providing timely, high-quality technical support, which the Company believes is critical to maintaining customer satisfaction. The Company provides technical support by offering telephone support, e-mail support, facsimile support and communications through its Web site. Telephone support is available five days a week during normal business hours on a nearly worldwide basis, with extended hours and emergency support additionally available. The Company also believes customer satisfaction can be maintained by ensuring that its Value-Added Resellers (VARs), distributors and authorized consultants are able to effectively provide front-line technical support and assistance to end users. The Company offers comprehensive training, telephone consultation and product support for its VARs, distributors and authorized consultants. Training courses are available electronically and in major cities worldwide. The Company’s network of VARs and authorized consultants are required to undergo training and certification procedures provided by the Company on the use, installation and implementation of the Company’s products as a condition of being authorized by the Company to sell its products. The Company's VARs include consulting groups and resellers, the majority of which provide software and hardware installation, systems integration and consulting services to organizations. The Company’s authorized consultants generally are not resellers of the Company’s products, but professional firms who offer implementation services and product support to end users. The Company believes that its authorized consultants are product influencers and are a valuable part of the Company’s marketing, sales and distribution efforts. To support the Company’s network of VARs and authorized consultants, the Company provides experienced personnel who are specifically tasked with VAR growth and support. These individuals are responsible for educating and training the distribution channel, disseminating information, implementing marketing programs and developing regional markets. The Company’s software maintenance programs are the customers’ sole avenue for product updates and technical support. The annual maintenance fee is generally based on a percentage of the list price of the software purchased. Customers who subscribe for maintenance receive telephone and technical support, timely information on product enhancements and features and product updates and upgrades. Revenue from these software maintenance agreements is recognized ratably over the maintenance period. The Company provides a warranty for the media on which its products are licensed and also provides a performance warranty on certain products ranging from three months to one year. 18 Table of Contents Marketing, Sales and Distribution The Company sells, markets and distributes its products and services worldwide, primarily through a direct sales force, as well as through an indirect channel including a network of VARs, distributors and authorized consultants who market the Company’s products on a nonexclusive basis. The Company’s products are sold to and used by a broad customer base, including manufacturers, distributors, retailers, sports and leisure and service organizations, as well as companies in technology/software, healthcare, government entities, educational institutions and other sectors. The Company sells its Enterprise, iScala and Vantage solutions through a hybrid channel that includes a direct sales force and a network of VARs. The Company also sells its Clientele and Vista solutions through an internal telesales organization and through a network of VARs. The CRS, Avanté and Manage 2000 products are presently sold by direct sales forces. The Avanté product is sold in certain international locations through VARs and distributors. The Company’s field sales organizations are generally organized on a geographic basis. In recognition of global opportunities for its software products, the Company has committed resources to a global sales and marketing effort. The Company has established offices in the United Kingdom, Hungary, Romania, Sweden, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, Mexico, Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan, Malaysia and South Africa to further such sales and marketing efforts. The Company sells its products in Europe, Central and South America, Africa, Asia and the Middle East predominately through third-party distributors and dealers. The Company translates and localizes certain products, either directly or through outside contractors, for sale in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Latin America and Asia Pacific. The Company also provides access to its solutions through application hosting, which allows customers to access the software over the Internet from servers that are most often housed in data centers or co-location facilities versus at the customer’s site. Epicor Hosting Services allows customers to purchase the infrastructure and system support on a monthly basis through leading global infrastructure providers like Savvis and IBM Corporation. Hosting provides a deployment alternative to companies who do not want to invest in the hardware, IT personnel or the technology infrastructure necessary to support a premise-based software deployment. By hosting the software through Epicor Hosting Services, a company can free up critical capital resources, both intellectual and monetary, and focus on its core business operations. Epicor Hosting Services takes care of data back-up and disaster recovery to increase continuity, security, and support un-interrupted access to business applications. Alongside application hosting services, Epicor Managed Services can deliver application portfolio management, and enhance normal support and maintenance offerings with comprehensive release and application infrastructure management and administration—backed by full help desk access and service level protection services. A natural progression from Epicor Managed Services, Epicor Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) services offers companies the ability to further focus on their core business, better manage cost and gain access to skilled resources by the transitioning and on-going task management of non-value added business processes, such as the management of the accounts payable process, to Epicor. Customer and Backlog No single customer accounted for more than 10% of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Products are generally shipped as orders are received or within a short period thereafter and, accordingly, the Company has historically operated with little or no license backlog. Because of the generally short cycle between order and shipment, the Company believes that its backlog as of any particular date is not significant or meaningful. Product Development and Quality Assurance The Company plans to continue addressing the needs of midmarket users of client/server and Web-based enterprise software by continuing to develop high quality software products that feature advanced technologies. See “Certain Factors That May Affect Future Results – Forward Looking Statements – Safe Harbor.” The Company's technology strategy is to develop leading business application software using its own technologies, based on and combined with leading third-party, industry-standard technologies in database management systems, application development tools, operating systems, user interfaces and networks. The Company plans to use technologies from Microsoft Corporation whenever possible and plans to build technologies based on Microsoft Corporation’s recommended technical architecture. In particular, the Company believes that it remains an industry leader in designing and developing products for Microsoft platforms, including the .NET Framework. The Company also believes that it has been a pioneer in the use of browsers and GUIs with integrated business application software. Currently, the Company continues to pursue applications based on a SOA and Web services that can simplify the development, maintenance, deployment and customization of its products. 19 Table of Contents The Company intends to continue to invest in product development. In particular, the Company plans to continue to (i) develop product enhancements, including additional functions and features, for its product lines, (ii) increasingly leverage a SOA, Web services and the Microsoft .NET Framework, (iii) develop additional enterprise applications supporting both business-to-business and business-to-consumer solutions and (iv) develop and/or acquire new applications or modules that build upon the Company’s business application strategy. See “Certain Factors That May Affect Future Results – Forward Looking Statements – Safe Harbor.” The Company’s technical strategy for its Enterprise, Epicor for Service Enterprises, iScala, Clientele, CRS, Vantage and Vista suites of applications is centered on the Microsoft .NET Framework to provide enhanced scalability, flexibility and interoperability. The architecture consists of a multi-tiered, distributed application model and a comprehensive set of infrastructure and application services. This architecture provides tools, technologies and services to develop highly adaptive applications that support multiple client deployments including smart-client, browser-based and mobile clients. More importantly, this architecture provides the infrastructure for connecting enterprises through the Internet by leveraging key Microsoft technologies such as Microsoft Commerce Server, Microsoft COM+ (Component Object Model) and Microsoft BizTalk Server, which provide a complete framework for enterprise application integration, electronic commerce and business interoperability through industry leading support for XML Web services. Epicor believes that it has maintained a leadership position with respect to Web services and .NET. The Company was among the first early adopters invited by Microsoft to work with Visual Studio .NET and the .NET Framework and participated with Microsoft in the launch of the Web Services Interoperability Organization (WS-I.org) to promote standards for interoperability and accelerate the adoption and deployment of Web services. The Company was also the first vendor to release enterprise CRM and ERP for Services applications fully re-architected for the Microsoft .NET Framework. See “Certain Factors That May Affect Future Results – Forward Looking Statements – Safe Harbor.” The computer software industry is characterized by rapid technological advances and continual changes in customer business requirements and priorities. The Company’s future success will depend upon its ability to enhance its current products and develop and introduce new products that keep pace with technological developments, respond to evolving customer requirements and continue to achieve market acceptance. In particular, the Company believes it must continue to respond quickly to users’ needs for broad functionality and multi-platform support and to advances in hardware and operating systems, particularly in the areas of Business Process Management, On-Demand Business and Collaborative Commerce. The Company’s future business is dependent on the execution of the strategy that is in place to target the enterprise software needs of mid-sized businesses and the divisions of global enterprises. Any significant delay in shipping new modules or enhancements could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that new modules or product enhancements developed by the Company will adequately achieve market acceptance. Expenditures for software development were $37.4 million, $34.1 million and $28.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Expenditures for software development as a percentage of revenue were 8.7%, 8.9% and 9.8% for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Competition The enterprise business applications software industry is intensely competitive, rapidly changing and significantly affected by new product offerings and other market activities. A number of companies offer enterprise application suites similar to the Company's product offerings that are targeted at the same markets. In addition, a number of companies offer “best-of-breed,” or point solutions, similar to or competitive with a portion of the Company’s enterprise business application suite. Some of the Company’s existing competitors, as well as a number of new potential competitors, have larger technical staffs, larger more established marketing and sales organizations and significantly greater financial resources than the Company. There can be no assurance that competitors will not develop products that are superior to the Company’s products or that achieve greater market acceptance. The Company’s future success will depend significantly upon its ability to increase its share of its target markets and to license additional products and product enhancements to existing customers. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. In addition, potential customers may increasingly demand that certain of the Company’s enterprise systems incorporate certain RDBMS or operating system software offered by competing products, but not currently supported by the Company’s products. 20 Table of Contents The Company believes that it competes in three enterprise business applications markets: emerging enterprises, midmarket enterprises, and divisions of the Global 1000. The Company defines emerging enterprises as rapidly growing businesses under $25 million in annual revenues. Emerging enterprises generally lack dedicated information technology management resources and require affordable solutions that do not require a high level of ongoing maintenance and support for their continued operation. Products in this market are principally sold through VARs and telesales persons with the purchasing decision often influenced by professionals providing consulting services. The Company believes that purchases in this market are primarily influenced by functionality, performance, availability of a Windows-based solution, price and quality. The Company believes it competes favorably with respect to all of these factors. The Company competes primarily in the midmarket, which the Company defines as growing enterprises with revenues between $10 million and $1 billion. Businesses in the midmarket require solutions that provide a more sophisticated level of functionality to effectively manage their business. These businesses require applications that are easy to implement, extend, manage and use, as well as being affordable. Midmarket enterprises also often lack dedicated information technology management resources and need solutions that do not require a high level of ongoing maintenance and support for their continued operation. The Company believes that purchases in this market are primarily influenced by functionality, performance, availability of a Windows-based solution, price, quality and customer service. The Company believes it competes favorably with respect to all of these factors. Increasingly, customers in this market segment are looking for Microsoft SQL Server-based solutions, and the Enterprise, Epicor for Services Enterprises, iScala, Clientele, CRS and Vantage product lines are well positioned to address this requirement. The Company also competes for the divisions and subsidiaries of larger Global 1000 corporations, which the Company defines as enterprises with over $1 billion in annual revenue. Global 1000 companies seeking to deploy a standard business solution across their subsidiary operations have typically been challenged with the total cost of ownership (TCO) of deploying their corporate level Tier-1 system to operating units which often operate more like midmarket entities. Additionally, localization issues and technical infrastructure problems in remote locations have made Tier-1 global roll-outs cost prohibitive. These businesses may require a single standardized application that can be deployed worldwide using a low cost decentralized implementation, as opposed to implementing through a centralized infrastructure. At the same time, they require the ability to roll-up management information on a daily or weekly basis, as well as support drill-down from corporate or regional offices to the underlying data in the subsidiaries as required. The Company believes that purchases in this market are primarily influenced by availability, high functionality, integration, localization, overall cost of ownership, availability of a Windows-based solution, standardization and a global customer support infrastructure. The Company believes it competes favorably with respect to all of these factors. Increasingly, customers in this market segment are looking for Microsoft SQL Server based solutions. The Company believes its Enterprise, Epicor for Services Enterprises, iScala, CRS and Vantage product lines are well positioned to address this requirement. The Company believes it is one of only a few vendors in this market space that is dedicated to providing midmarket companies and the divisions and subsidiaries of the Global 1000 with comprehensive, integrated enterprise business applications. However, there are competitors from both the high-end and low-end who are attracted to the business opportunity represented by the midmarket and are beginning to offer complete or partial enterprise business applications to this market. In order to compete in the future, the Company must respond effectively to customer needs in the area of business process management (BPM) and service-oriented architecture (SOA) and incorporate those technologies and application functionality that will meet the challenges posed by competitors' innovations. To accomplish this objective, the Company will be required to continue to invest in enhancing its current products and, when necessary, introduce new products to remain competitive. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to invest in such enhancements or new products, or introduce such enhancements or new products in a timely fashion or at all. The Company has a number of competitors that vary in size, target markets and overall product scope. The Company’s primary competition comes from independent software vendors in three distinct groups, including (i) large, multinational ERP vendors that are increasingly targeting mid-sized businesses as their traditional market becomes saturated, including Oracle Corporation (includes Peoplesoft and J.D. Edwards), and SAP AG, (ii) mid-range ERP vendors, including Infor (includes Geac, Mapics, SSA, Symix and Systems Union), Lawson Software Inc. (includes Intentia), IFS and Microsoft Dynamics (includes Great Plains, Axapta, and Navision), and (iii) established “best-of-breed” or point solution providers that compete with only one portion of the Company’s overall ERP suite, including Sage Software, Ltd., and Systems Union, Ltd. (now part of Infor) for financial 21 Table of Contents accounting; ChangePoint (owned by Compuware Corporation), Deltek Systems, Inc., Unit 4 Agresso, N.V, BST Global, and QuickArrow, Inc., for professional services automation; HighJump Software (part of 3M), Prophet21 (owned by Activant), and Manhattan Associates, Inc. for distribution and warehousing; QAD, Inc., for manufacturing; JDA Software Group Inc. and DataVantage (owned by Micros Systems, Inc.) for specialty retail; and Salesforce.com Inc., Siebel Systems Inc. (owned by Oracle Corporation), FrontRange Solutions, Inc. and SalesLogix (owned by Best Software, Inc.) for sales force automation, customer service and support. In addition, as the Company sells its products to larger companies, it also faces increased competition from larger and well-established competitors such as Oracle and SAP AG. While these competitors offer dedicated applications, the Company believes that its broad product offerings, global infrastructure and level of product integration provide a significant competitive advantage. Intellectual Property The Company regards its software as proprietary in that title to and ownership of the software generally resides exclusively with the Company, and the Company attempts to protect it with a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other industry standard methods for protecting ownership of its proprietary software. Despite these precautions, there can be no assurance unauthorized third-parties will not copy certain portions of the Company’s products or reverse engineer or obtain and use information the Company regards as proprietary. To date, the Company has not relied on patent protection for its software products. While the Company’s competitive position may be affected by its ability to protect its proprietary information, the Company believes that trademark and copyright protections are less significant to the Company’s success than other factors such as the knowledge, ability and experience of the Company’s personnel, name recognition and ongoing product development and support. There can be no assurance that the mechanisms used by the Company to protect its software will be adequate or that the Company’s competitors will not independently develop software products that are substantially equivalent or superior to the Company’s software products. The Company’s software products are generally licensed to end users on a "right to use" basis pursuant to a perpetual, non-exclusive license that generally restricts use of the software to the organization’s internal business purposes. Additionally, the end user is generally not permitted to sublicense or transfer the products. When sold through VARs and distributors, the Company licenses its software products pursuant to "shrink wrap" licenses that are not signed by licensees and therefore may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect the Company’s proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Certain components of the Company’s products are licensed from third parties. The source code for the Avanté and, in certain cases, Manage 2000, Vantage and Enterprise products historically has been licensed to customers to enable them to customize the software to meet particular requirements. The standard customer license contains a confidentiality clause protecting the products. In the event of termination of the license agreement, the customer remains responsible for the confidentiality obligation and for any accrued and unpaid license fees. However, there can be no assurance that such customers will take adequate precautions to protect the source code or other confidential information. As the number of software products in the industry increases and the functionality of these products further overlap, the Company believes that software programs will increasingly become subject to infringement claims. There can be no assurance that third-parties will not assert infringement claims against the Company in the future with respect to current or future products or that any such assertion may not require the Company to enter into royalty arrangements or result in costly litigation. Employees As of February 29, 2008, the Company had 2,907 full-time employees, including NSB employees. The Company had 610 in product development, 529 in support services, 936 in professional services, 436 in sales, 63 in marketing and 333 in administration. The Company's employees are not represented by any collective bargaining organization, and the Company has never experienced a work stoppage. The Company believes that employee relations are good. Available Information Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on our website at www.epicor.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 22 Table of Contents Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Certain Factors That May Affect Future Results If the emerging and current technologies and platforms of Microsoft and others upon which the Company builds its products do not gain or retain broad market acceptance, or if we fail to develop and introduce in a timely manner new products and services compatible with such emerging technologies, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. The Company’s software products are built and depend upon several underlying and evolving relational database management system platforms such as Microsoft SQL Server, Progress and IBM. To date, the standards and technologies that the Company has chosen to develop its products upon have proven to be popular and have gained broad industry acceptance. However, the market for the Company’s software products is subject to ongoing rapid technological developments, quickly evolving industry standards and rapid changes in customer requirements, and there may be existing or future technologies and platforms that achieve industry standard status, which are not compatible with our products. Additionally, because the Company’s products rely significantly upon popular existing user interfaces to third party business applications, the Company must forecast which user interfaces will be or will remain popular in the future. For example, the Company believes the Internet has and continues to transform the way businesses operate and the software requirements of customers, who are increasingly shifting towards web-based applications and away from server-based applications. Specifically, the Company believes that customers desire business software applications that enable a customer to engage in commerce or service over the Internet. The Company is proceeding on its previously announced determination to continue with development of several of its primary product lines upon the Microsoft .NET technology. If the Company cannot continue to develop such .NET compatible products in time to effectively bring them to market, or if .NET does not become or continue to be a widely accepted industry standard, or if customers adopt competitors’ products when they shift to web-based applications, the ability of the Company’s products to interface with popular third party applications will be negatively impacted and the Company’s competitive position, operating results and revenues could be adversely affected. New software technologies could cause us to alter our business model resulting in adverse effects on our operating results. Development of new technologies may also cause the Company to change how it licenses or prices its products, which may adversely impact the Company’s revenues and operating results. Emerging licensing models include hosting as well as subscription-based licensing, in which the licensee essentially rents software for a defined period of time, as opposed to the current perpetual license model. While the Company does currently offer a hosted model to its customers, it has to date chosen not to offer a subscription based mode. The Company’s future business, operating results and financial condition will depend on its ability to effectively train its sales force to sell an integrated comprehensive set of business software products and recognize and implement emerging industry standards and models, including new pricing and licensing models. If the Company fails to respond to emerging industry standards, including licensing models and end-user requirements, the Company’s competitive position and revenues could be adversely affected. A significant portion of our future revenue is dependent upon our existing installed base of customers continuing to license additional products, as well as purchasing consulting services and renewing their annual maintenance and support contracts. If our existing customers fail to renew their maintenance and support agreements or fail to purchase new product enhancements or additional services from the Company at historical levels, the Company’s revenues and results of operations could be materially impacted. Historically, approximately 50% to 60% of the Company’s license revenues, 90% of the Company’s maintenance revenues and a substantial portion of the Company’s consulting revenues are generated from the Company’s installed base of customers. Maintenance and support agreements with these customers are traditionally renewed on an annual basis at the customer’s discretion, and there is normally no requirement that a customer so renew or that a customer pay new license fees or service fees to the Company following the initial purchase. As a result, if the Company’s existing customers fail to renew their maintenance and support agreements or fail to purchase new product enhancements or additional services at historical levels, our revenues and results of operations could be materially impacted. 23 Table of Contents Our increasingly complex software products may contain errors or defects, which could result in the rejection of our products and damage to our reputation as well as cause lost revenue, delays in collecting accounts receivable, diverted development resources and increased service costs and warranty claims. The Company’s software products are made up of increasingly complex computer programs. Software products are complex and products offered by the Company often contain undetected errors or failures (commonly referred to as bugs) when first introduced to the market or as new updates or upgrades of such products are released to the market. Despite testing by the Company, and by current and potential customers, prior to general release to the market, the Company’s products may still contain material errors after their initial commercial shipment. Such material errors may result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of the Company’s products, damage to the Company’s reputation and increased service and warranty costs. Ultimately, such errors could lead to a decline in the Company’s revenues. The Company has from time to time been notified by some of its customers of errors in its various software products. Although it has not occurred to date, the possibility of the Company being unable to correct such errors in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and its cash flows. In addition, if material technical problems with the current release of the various database and technology platforms, on which the Company’s products operate, including Progress, IBM, Microsoft SQL or Microsoft .NET, occur, such difficulties could also negatively impact sales of these products, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The market for new development tools, application products and consulting and education services continues to emerge, which could negatively affect our client/server and web-based products, and, if the Company fails to respond effectively to evolving requirements of these markets, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. The Company’s development tools, application products and consulting and education services generally help organizations build, customize or deploy solutions that operate in both client/server-computing and web-based environments. The Company believes that the environment for application software is continuing to change from client/server to a Web-based environment to facilitate commerce on the Internet. There can be no assurance that the market for client/server computing will continue to grow, or will not decrease, or that the Company will be able to continue to respond effectively to the evolving requirements of Web-based markets. The market for our software products and services is highly competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors our business could be negatively impacted. The business information systems industry in general and the manufacturing, distribution, retail, CRM and financial computer software industry specifically, in which the Company competes are very competitive and subject to rapid technological change, evolving standards, frequent product enhancements and introductions and changing customer requirements. Many of the Company’s current and potential competitors have (i) longer operating histories, (ii) significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, (iii) greater name recognition, (iv) larger technical staffs and (v) a larger installed customer base than the Company. A number of companies offer products that are similar to the Company’s products and target the same markets. In addition, any of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements (such as commerce on the Internet and Web-based application software), and to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than the Company. Furthermore, because there are relatively low barriers to entry in the software industry, the Company expects additional competition from other established and emerging companies. Such competitors may develop products and services that compete with those offered by the Company or may acquire companies, businesses and product lines that compete with the Company. It also is possible that competitors may create alliances and rapidly acquire significant market share, including in new and emerging markets. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company’s current or potential competitors will not develop or acquire products or services comparable or superior to those that the Company develops, combine or merge to form significant competitors or adapt more quickly than the Company to new technologies, evolving industry trends and changing customer requirements. Competition could cause price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share for the Company’s products and services, any of which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that the competitive pressures that the Company may face will not materially adversely affect its business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. 24 Table of Contents If we were to lose the services of the members of our senior management team, we may not be able to execute our business strategy. Our future success depends in a large part upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team. In particular, our executive Officers such as our CEO and CFO as well as other senior members of our management team such as our chief marketing officer and senior vice presidents are critical to the overall management of Epicor as well as the development of our technology, our operations and our strategic direction. All of our executive officers and key employees are at-will employees, and we do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies. The loss of any members of our executive management team and the possible inability to attract qualified replacements in a timely manner could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively and seriously harm our business. We may not be able to maintain and expand our product offerings or business if we are not able to retain, hire and integrate sufficiently qualified personnel. The Company’s success depends in large part on the continued service of key management personnel that are not subject to employment agreements, including, but not limited to, several of the key personnel employed as a result of the Company’s recent acquisitions. In addition, the Company needs to expand its workforce to continue its growth, and the competition to attract, retain and motivate qualified technical, sales and software development personnel is intense. Additionally, the sudden unexpected loss of such technical personnel, such as developers can have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely and effective manner. There is no assurance that the Company will retain its key personnel, including those who came to the Company as part of acquisitions, or attract sufficient numbers of qualified key personnel in the future. The failure to retain or attract such persons could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. Our software products incorporate and rely upon third party software products for certain key functionality and our revenues, as well as our ability to develop and introduce new products, could be adversely affected by our inability to control or replace these third party products and operations. The Company’s products incorporate and rely upon software products developed by several other third party entities such as Microsoft, IBM and Progress. Specifically, the Company’s software products are built and depend upon several underlying and evolving relational database management system platforms including Microsoft SQL Server, Progress OpenEdge and IBM U2, and also are integrated with several other third party provider products for the purpose of providing or enhancing necessary functionality. In the event that these third party products were to become unavailable to the Company or to our customers, either directly from the third party manufacturers or through other resellers of such products, the Company could not readily replace these products with substitute products. As a result, the Company cannot provide assurance that these third parties will: • Remain in business; • Continue to support the Company’s product lines; • Maintain viable product lines; • Make their product lines available to the Company on commercially acceptable terms and • Not make their products available to the Company’s competitors on more favorable terms. In the long term (i.e., a year or more), an interruption of supply from these vendors could potentially be overcome through migration to another third party supplier or development within the Company. However, any interruption in the short term could have a significant detrimental effect on the Company’s ability to continue to market and sell those of its products relying on these specific third party products and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operation, cash flows and financial condition. We may pursue strategic acquisitions, investments and relationships and may not be able to successfully manage our operations if we fail to successfully integrate such acquired businesses and technologies, which could adversely affect our operating results. As part of its business strategy, the Company may continue to expand its product offerings to include application software products and services that are complementary to its existing software applications, particularly in the areas of electronic commerce or commerce over the Internet, or may gain access to established customer bases into which the Company can sell its current products. The Company’s acquisitions of Scala Business Solutions in 2004, CRS in 2005 and NSB in 2008 are typical of this ongoing strategy. However, while this strategy has 25 Table of Contents historically and may in the future involve acquisitions, investments in other businesses that offer complementary products, joint development agreements or technology licensing agreements, the specific risks we commonly encounter in these types of transactions include the following: • Difficulty in effectively integrating any acquired technologies or software products into our current products and technologies; • Difficulty in predicting and responding to issues related to product transition such as development, distribution and customer support; • The possible adverse impact of such acquisitions on existing relationships with third party partners and suppliers of technologies and services; • The possibility that customers of the acquired company might not accept new ownership and may transition to different technologies or attempt to renegotiate contract terms or relationships, including maintenance or support agreements; • The possibility that the due diligence process in any such acquisition may not completely identify material issues associated with product quality, product architecture, product development, intellectual property issues, key personnel issues or legal and financial contingencies; • Difficulty in integrating acquired operations, including incorporating internal control structures, due to geographical distance, and language and cultural differences and • Difficulty in retaining employees of the acquired company. A failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses or technology for any of these reasons could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Our future results could be harmed by economic, political, geographic, regulatory and other specific risks associated with our international operations. The Company believes that any future growth of the Company will be dependent, in part, upon the Company’s ability to maintain and increase revenues in its existing and emerging international markets, including Asia and Latin America. During the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, 39.8% and 36.8%, respectively, of total Company revenues were generated by the Company’s international operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will maintain or expand its international sales. If the revenues that the Company generates from foreign activities are inadequate to offset the expense of maintaining foreign offices and activities, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The international reach of the Company’s businesses could also subject the Company and its results of operations to unexpected, uncontrollable and rapidly changing economic and political conditions. Specifically, our international sales and operations are subject to inherent risks, including: • Differing intellectual property and labor laws; • Lack of experience in a particular geographic market; • Different and changing regulatory requirements in various countries and regions; • Tariffs and other barriers, including import and export requirements and taxes on subsidiary operations; • Fluctuating exchange rates and currency controls; • Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales and support operations; • Longer accounts receivable payment cycles; • Potentially adverse tax consequences, including repatriation of earnings; • Development and support of localized and translated products; • Lack of acceptance of localized products or the Company in foreign countries; • Shortage of skilled personnel required for local operations and • Perceived health risks, natural disasters or terrorist risks which impact a geographic region and business operations therein. Any one of these factors or a combination of them could materially and adversely affect the Company’s future international sales and, consequently, the Company’s business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. A portion of the Company’s revenues from sales to foreign entities, including foreign governments, has been in the form of foreign currencies. While the Company does enter into hedges and other similar foreign currency contracts from time to time, there can be no assurance that such activities will effectively minimize the impact that fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies may have on the Company. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies could adversely impact the profitability of the Company’s foreign operations. 26 Table of Contents We rely, in part, on third parties to sell our products. Disruptions to these channels would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. The Company distributes products through a direct sales force as well as through an indirect distribution channel, which includes VARs and other distributors and authorized consultants, consisting primarily of professional firms. During the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, 13% and 14%, respectively, of the Company’s software license revenues were generated by VARs and distributors. If the Company’s VARs or authorized consultants cease distributing or recommending the Company’s products or emphasize competing products, the Company’s results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Historically, the Company has sold its financial and customer relationship management (CRM) products through direct sales as well as through the indirect distribution channel. However, the Company is currently developing a distribution channel for certain of its manufacturing product lines not previously widely sold through VARs and other distributors. It is not yet certain that these products can be successfully sold through such a channel and the long term impact of this new distribution channel on the Company’s performance is as of yet undetermined as is the Company’s ability to generate additional license and services revenue from such a channel. The success of the Company’s distributors depends in part upon their ability to attract and maintain qualified sales and consulting personnel. Additionally, the Company’s distributors may generally terminate their agreements with the Company upon 30 days notice, while the Scala partners may generally terminate their agreements upon 30 days to several months notice. Almost all partners though may effectively terminate their agreements at any time by ceasing to promote or sell our products. If our VARs or other distributors are unable to maintain such qualified personnel or if several of the Company’s VARs or other distributors were to cease doing business or terminate their agreements and the Company is unable to replace them in a timely fashion, such factors could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. Finally, there can be no assurance that having both a direct sales force and a distribution channel for the Company’s products will not lead to conflicts between those two sales forces which could adversely impact the Company’s ability to close sales transactions or could have a negative impact upon average selling prices, any of which may negatively impact the Company’s operating revenues and results of operations. If third parties infringe upon our intellectual property, we may expend significant resources enforcing our rights or suffer competitive injury, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we may be subject to claims that we infringe upon the intellectual property of others. The Company considers its proprietary software and the related intellectual property rights in such products to be among its most valuable assets. The Company relies on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws (domestically and internationally), employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other industry standard methods for protecting ownership of its proprietary software. However, the Company cannot assure you that in spite of these precautions, an unauthorized third party will not copy or reverse-engineer certain portions of the Company’s products or obtain and use information that the Company regards as proprietary. From time to time, the Company does take legal action against third parties whom the Company believes are infringing upon the Company’s intellectual property rights. However, there is no assurance that the mechanisms that the Company uses to protect its intellectual property will be adequate or that the Company’s competitors will not independently develop products that are substantially equivalent or superior to the Company’s products. Moreover, the Company from time to time receives claims from third parties that the Company’s software products infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. The Company expects that as the number of software products in the United States and worldwide increases and the functionality of these products further overlaps, the number of these types of claims will increase. This risk is potentially heightened in such diverse international markets as Eastern Europe, Asia and the Middle East. Although it has not yet occurred to date, any such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and require the Company to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. The terms of such royalty or license arrangements, if required, may not be favorable to the Company. In addition, in certain cases, the Company provides the source code for some of its application software under licenses to its customers and distributors to enable them to customize the software to meet their particular requirements or translate or localize the products for resale in foreign countries, as the case may be. Although the source code licenses contain confidentiality and nondisclosure provisions, the Company cannot be certain that such customers or distributors will take adequate precautions to protect the Company’s source code or other confidential information. Moreover, regardless of contractual arrangements, the laws of some countries in which the Company does business or distributes its products do not offer the same level of protection to intellectual property, as do the laws of the United States. 27 Table of Contents Foreign currency fluctuations may negatively impact the financial results of the Company. The results of operations or financial condition of the Company may be negatively impacted by foreign currency fluctuations. The Company operates throughout the world through international sales subsidiaries, networks of exclusive third party distributors, and non-exclusive dealers. As a result, certain sales and related expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The Company’s results of operations may fluctuate due to exchange rate fluctuation between the U.S. dollar and other currencies because our financial results are reported on a consolidated basis in U.S. dollars. In an effort to minimize operation fluctuations due to currency movements, we may attempt to limit foreign exchange exposure through operational strategies (e.g. natural hedges, netting, leading and lagging of accounts payables and account receivables) to offset the effects of exchange rate changes. In addition, the Company may enter into forward currency contracts and purchased options contracts to mitigate unfavorable impacts to our non-operating income. The Company estimates the volume of sales transactions in various currencies. Our estimates of transaction volumes in these various currencies could be overstated or understated. If these estimates are overstated or understated during periods of currency volatility, the Company may experience material currency gains or losses. Also, in December 2007, the Company announced its offer to acquire the capital shares of NSB Retail Systems for consideration denominated in pounds sterling. While the Company capped its exposure to negative fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and pound sterling through the purchase of call option contracts, depreciation of the pounds sterling against the U.S. dollar may result in a material loss in the value of the option contracts (see Note 15 in Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and subject to substantial fluctuation. The Company’s quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past. For example, from the first quarter of 2005 through the fourth quarter of 2007, quarterly operating income has ranged from $6.6 million to $13.9 million. The Company’s operating results may continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of many specific factors that include: • The demand for the Company’s products, including reduced demand related to changes in marketing focus for certain products, software market conditions or general economic conditions as they pertain to information technology (IT) spending; • Fluctuations in the length of the Company’s sales cycles which may vary depending on the complexity of our products as well as the complexity of the customer’s specific software and service needs; • The size and timing of orders for the Company’s software products and services, which, because many orders are completed in the final days of each quarter, may be delayed to future quarters; • The number, timing and significance of new software product announcements, both by the Company and its competitors; • Customers’ unexpected postponement or termination of expected system upgrades or replacement due to a variety of factors including economic conditions, changes in IT strategies or management changes; • Changes in accounting standards, including software revenue recognition standards; • Currency fluctuations and • Fluctuations in number of customers renewing maintenance. In addition, the Company has historically realized a significant portion of its software license revenues in the final month of any quarter, with a concentration of such revenues recorded in the final ten business days of that month. Further, the Company generally realizes a significant portion of its annual software license revenues in the final quarter of the fiscal year. Due to the above factors, among others, the Company’s revenues are difficult to forecast. The Company, however, bases its expense levels, including operating expenses and hiring plans, in significant part, on its expectations of future revenue. As a result, the Company expects its expense levels to be relatively fixed in the short term. The Company’s failure to meet revenue expectations could adversely affect operating results. Further, an unanticipated decline in revenue for a particular quarter may disproportionately affect the Company’s operating results in that quarter because the majority of the Company’s expenses will be fixed in the short term. As a result, the Company believes that period-to-period comparisons of the Company’s results of operations are not, and will not, necessarily be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. Due to the foregoing factors, it is likely that, as in past quarters, in some future quarters the Company’s operating results will be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. As in those past quarters, such an event would likely have an adverse effect upon the price of the Company’s outstanding securities. 28 Table of Contents Our operating cash flows are subject to fluctuation, primarily related to our ability to timely collect accounts receivable and to achieve anticipated revenues and expenses. Negative fluctuations in operating cash flows may require us to seek additional cash sources to fund our working capital requirements. If additional cash sources are not available to the Company, our operations could be adversely affected. From the first quarter of 2005 through the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company’s quarterly operating cash flows have ranged from $3.2 million provided by operating activities to $22.3 million provided by operating activities. The Company’s cash and cash equivalents have increased from $49.8 million at December 31, 2005 to $75.2 million at December 31, 2007. However, the Company has at times experienced decreasing revenues and, prior to the first quarter of 2003, continued operating losses. If, in the future, the Company is not successful in achieving its anticipated revenues and expenses or maintaining a positive cash flow, the Company may not have sufficient resources for planned growth and may be required to take actions to reduce its operating expenses, such as reductions in work force and/or seek additional sources of funding. Since December 31, 1999, the Company has also experienced fluctuations in the proportion of accounts receivable over 90 days old. These fluctuations have been due to various issues, including product and service quality, deteriorating financial condition of customers during the recent recession and lack of effectiveness of the Company’s collection processes. If the Company cannot successfully collect a significant portion of its net accounts receivable, the Company may be required to seek alternative financing sources. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had a $230.0 million obligation to holders of the Company’s convertible bonds. The market for our stock is volatile and fluctuations in operating results, changes in the Company’s guidance on revenues and earnings estimates and other factors could negatively impact our stock’s price. During the three year period ended December 31, 2007, the price of the Company’s common stock ranged from a low of $9.59 to a high of $15.75. For fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, the stock price ranged from a low of $10.55 to a high of $15.49. As of February 22, 2008, the Company had 58,396,409 shares of Common Stock outstanding. The market prices for securities of technology companies, including the Company’s, have historically been quite volatile. Quarter to quarter variations in operating results, changes in the Company’s guidance on revenues and earnings estimates, announcements of technological innovations or new products by the Company or its competitors, announcements of major contract awards, announcements of industry acquisitions by us or our competitors, changes in accounting standards or regulatory requirements as promulgated by the FASB, SEC, NASDAQ or other regulatory entities, changes in management and other events or factors may have a significant impact on the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. In addition, the securities of many technology companies have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have often been related more to changes in recommendations or financial estimates by securities analysts than to the companies’ actual operating performance. Any of these conditions may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. If we are not able to successfully integrate CRS Retail Technology Group, Inc. and NSB Retail Systems and their operations with the Company and between themselves , our ability to achieve anticipated revenues and related profits, as well as sales for the CRS and NSB products may be adversely impacted. The success of our acquisitions of CRS and NSB will depend in large part upon our ability to continue to successfully integrate the CRS and NSB businesses into the Company and between themselves. As with most acquisitions, integration issues are complex, time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt the businesses of CRS and NSB and thus, the Company. The challenges involved in continuing to integrate CRS and NSB with the Company include: • Coordinating sales and marketing efforts to effectively communicate the combined company’s capabilities; • Introducing and effectively selling and cross selling the CRS and NSB products into international (non-US) markets where they have not traditionally been offered; • Combining product offerings and technology; • Coordinating and combining domestic operations, relationships and facilities; • Coordinating and rationalizing research and development activities to enhance introduction of new products and technologies with reduced cost; • Coordinating CRS’ and NSB’s research and development efforts here in the United States with the Company’s R&D facilities both in the U.S. as well as in Moscow, Russia and Monterrey, Mexico; • Continuing to demonstrate to the existing CRS and NSB customers that the acquisitions will not result in adverse changes in client service standards or business focus and helping customers conduct business easily with the Company; 29 Table of Contents • Preserving distribution, marketing or other important relationships of the Company, CRS and NSB and resolving potential conflicts that may arise; • Successfully integrating the business cultures of the Company, CRS and NSB, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees and • Consolidating and rationalizing corporate information technology and administrative infrastructures. The integration of the CRS and NSB businesses into the Company’s business may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition to the extent, or in the time frame, anticipated. The failure to fully integrate the CRS and NSB businesses successfully into the Company or to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions could seriously hinder our plans for product development and business and market expansion. A variety of specific business interruptions could adversely affect our business. A number of particular types of business interruptions could greatly interfere with our ability to conduct business. For example, a substantial portion of our facilities, including our corporate headquarters and other critical business operations, are located near major earthquake faults. We do not carry earthquake insurance and do not fund for earthquake-related losses. In addition, our computer systems are susceptible to damage from fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, and similar events. The Company continues to consider and implement its options and develop contingency plans to avoid and/or minimize potential disruptions to its telecommunication services. If open source software expands into enterprise software applications, our software license revenues may decline. Open source software includes a broad range of software applications and operating environments produced by companies, development organizations and individual software developers and typically licensed for use, distribution and modification at a nominal cost or often, free of charge. A notable example of open source software is the Linux operating system, which continues to gain in popularity. To the extent that the open source software models expand and non-commercial companies and software developers create and contribute competitive enterprise software applications to the open source community, we may have to adjust our pricing, maintenance and distribution strategies and models, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. We have recorded a large amount of goodwill and other acquired intangible assets which we will be required to write down and record an expense if they become impaired. In connection with our previous acquisitions, we currently have goodwill of $169.3 million and $46.5 million of amortizing acquired intangible assets on our balance sheet. Although the goodwill is not amortized, we are required to test the goodwill for impairment at least yearly and any time there is an indication an impairment may have occurred. If we determine that the carrying value of the goodwill or other acquired intangible assets is in excess of its fair value, we will be required to write down a portion or all of the goodwill or other acquired intangible assets, which would adversely impact our results of operations. Future acquisitions of technologies or companies, which are paid for partially, or entirely through the issuance of stock or stock rights could prove dilutive to existing shareholders. Consistent with past experience, the Company expects that the consideration it might pay for any future acquisitions of companies or technologies could include stock, rights to purchase stock, cash or some combination of the foregoing. For example, the Company’s acquisition of Scala Business Solutions in 2004 involved the issuance of approximately 4.25 million shares of the Company’s Common Stock. If the Company issues stock or rights to purchase stock in connection with future acquisitions, earnings (loss) per share and then-existing holders of the Company’s Common Stock may experience dilution. We have a significant amount of debt following our note offering in 2007 and credit agreement in February 2008. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $230 million of outstanding debt. In addition, in February 2008, we borrowed $160 million under our Credit Agreement dated December 16, 2007, as amended by the First Amendment dated February 11, 2008 and the Notice dated February 11, 2008, to finance the acquisition of NSB and to pay certain fees and expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under our outstanding liabilities. 30 Table of Contents This level of debt could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: • Making it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations under our outstanding debt; • Resulting in an event of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements, which event of default could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable and, in the case of an event of default under our secured debt, such as our senior secured credit facility, could permit the lenders to foreclose on our assets securing that debt; • Reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; • Subjecting us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases on any indebtedness with variable interest rates; • Limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy and • Placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged. Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under our outstanding liabilities. The accounting method for our convertible debt securities may be subject to change. For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share, a convertible debt security providing for net share settlement and meeting specified requirements under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) may be accounted for similar to non-convertible debt, with the stated coupon constituting interest expense and any shares issuable to settle the conversion spread being accounted for under the treasury stock method. The effect of the treasury stock method is that the shares potentially issuable upon conversion of the notes are not included in the calculation of our earnings per share until the notes are “in the money”, and we are assumed to issue the number of shares of our common stock to settle the conversion spread. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) is addressing, among other things, the accounting method for net share settled financial instruments. The FASB is considering a proposed method for accounting for net share settled financial instruments under which the debt and equity components of the convertible security would be bifurcated and accounted for separately. The effect of this proposal is that the equity component would be accounted for as an original issue discount bond and would be included in the paid-in-capital section of stockholders’ equity on an issuer’s balance sheet. Income available to common stockholders would be lower by recognizing amortization of the original issue discount as interest expense. The diluted earnings per share calculation would continue to be calculated based on the treasury stock method. We cannot predict the outcome of the FASB deliberations and whether or not the FASB will require net share settled financial instruments to be accounted for under the existing method, the proposed method described above or some other method, and when any change would be implemented or whether it would be implemented retroactively or prospectively. We also cannot predict any other changes in GAAP that may be made affecting accounting for convertible debt instruments. Any change in the accounting method for convertible securities could have an adverse impact on our reported or future financial results and could cause future results to vary in unpredictable ways if we must mark to market the equity component of the recently issued notes. These impacts could adversely affect our stock price. Because of these and other factors affecting the Company’s operating results, past financial performance should not be considered an indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 31 Table of Contents 