Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of, and market for, shares of Sterling common stock could decline due to any of these risks. This report, including the documents incorporated by reference herein, also contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks described below and in the documents incorporated by reference herein. If our current capital levels are not sufficient to satisfy our needs or to satisfy changing regulatory requirements, we may need additional capital and could be subject to further regulatory restrictions, either of which could significantly adversely affect us and the trading price of our stock. The proceeds from the Recapitalization have been raised to strengthen our common equity capital base. If the proceeds from the Recapitalization prove not to be sufficient, or if economic conditions continue to be difficult or worsen or fail to improve in a timely manner, or if our operations or financial condition deteriorates or fails to improve, particularly in the residential and commercial real estate markets where Sterling operates, there may be a need to raise significant additional capital. Factors affecting whether we would need to raise additional capital include, among others, changing requirements of regulators, additional provisions for loan losses and loan charge-offs and other risks discussed in this “Risk Factors” section. If we were to need to raise additional capital, we may not be able to do so in the amounts required and in a timely manner, or at all. Our ability to raise additional capital may be constrained by our need to preserve our deferred tax assets. For more information, see “Our ability to use our deferred tax assets may be materially impaired” below. In addition, any such additional capital raised may be significantly dilutive to our existing shareholders and may result in the issuance of securities that have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to our common stock. We may issue securities that could dilute the ownership of our existing shareholders and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and warrants. We may decide to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings for a number of reasons, including in response to regulatory or other requirements to meet our liquidity and capital needs as discussed above, to finance our operations and business strategy (including potential acquisitions) or for other reasons. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities or instruments that are convertible into equity securities, the percentage ownership of our existing shareholders will be reduced, the new equity securities may have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of our common stock and additional issuances could be at a purchase price that is lower than the available market price for our common stock. The Anchor Investors and Private Placement Investors also have pre-emptive rights to maintain their ownership percentages in certain circumstances. In addition, there are anti-dilution adjustments in the warrants issued to the Anchor Investors and the amended warrant issued to Treasury that may protect the holders thereof against below-market issuances. There is generally no such protection available to holders of our common stock. To the extent that any new issuance of equity securities triggers these anti-dilution adjustments, your ownership could be further diluted. Except as described above, holders of our common stock have no pre-emptive rights that entitle them to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series. The market price of our common stock or our warrants could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of common stock, preferred stock or similar securities in the market as a result of future sales of common stock or the perception that such sales TX25 Table of Contents could occur. We may also issue equity securities as consideration for acquisitions we may make that could be dilutive to existing shareholders. We cannot determine whether or when certain agreements entered into with our regulators will be lifted. Following the September 2010 termination of its cease and desist order, Sterling Savings Bank remains subject to enhanced supervisory review on an informal basis in the form of the SSB MOU. Though the requirements of the SSB MOU are less strenuous than were the requirements of the cease and desist order, Sterling Savings Bank is required to maintain Tier 1 capital in an amount that ensures that its leverage ratio is at least 8%. The SSB MOU also requires Sterling Savings Bank to meet certain asset quality targets, develop a written capital plan, develop a three-year strategic plan and accept other limitations. Under the terms of the Reserve Bank Agreement, Sterling is subject to restrictions on its ability to pay dividends and distributions, incur debt, purchase or redeem stock and appoint new board members or senior executive officers. Under the Reserve Bank Agreement, Sterling is also required to act as a source of strength to Sterling Savings Bank and to report quarterly to the Reserve Bank on steps taken to improve its capital ratios and risk, liquidity and funds management and on other matters. We cannot determine whether or when the SSB MOU or the Reserve Bank Agreement will be lifted or terminated. Even if the Reserve Bank Agreement is lifted or terminated, Sterling may remain subject to a memorandum of understanding or other undertaking with the Reserve Bank that restricts our activities and continues to impose higher capital ratios, as the SSB MOU does. The requirements and restrictions of the Reserve Bank Agreement are judicially enforceable, and Sterling Savings Bank is obligated to comply with the undertakings set forth in the SSB MOU. The failure to comply with the SSB MOU and the Reserve Bank Agreement may result in the issuance of a new cease and desist order or subject Sterling and Sterling Savings Bank to additional regulatory restrictions including: the imposition of civil monetary penalties; the issuance of directives to increase capital or enter into a strategic transaction, whether by merger or otherwise, with a third party; and other limitations or restrictions on our business or activities. Acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that are contemplated at the time of any future acquisitions. Our growth strategy includes an intent to acquire other banks. This strategy entails risk. Acquisitions and related transition and integration activities may disrupt our ongoing business and divert management’s attention. In addition, an acquisition may not further our corporate strategy as we expected, we may pay more than the acquired banks or assets are ultimately worth or we may not integrate an acquired bank or assets as successfully as we expected, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be adversely affected by liabilities or pre-existing contractual relationships that we assume and may also fail to anticipate or accurately estimate litigation or other exposure, unfavorable accounting consequences, increases in taxes due or a loss of anticipated tax benefits. Other potential adverse consequences include higher than anticipated costs associated with the acquired bank or assets or integration activities. The use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit our use of cash for other potential activities, such as dividends. The use of equity securities to pay for acquisitions could significantly dilute existing shareholders. If we use debt to finance acquisitions, we may significantly increase our expenses, leverage and debt service requirements. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a large acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions. Our strategy of pursuing acquisitions of troubled institutions may not be successful. We anticipate that a part of our future business strategy will be to pursue the acquisition of troubled banks. We are not currently qualified to bid on these transactions. Although we plan to be intensely focused on complying with and being released from the SSB MOU and the Reserve Bank Agreement and becoming qualified to bid on such transactions, we TX26 Table of Contents may not be successful in the near term or at all. Prolonged or indefinite failure to achieve such qualification could cause us to miss the opportunity to bid on banks that we believe would be attractive acquisition candidates. The bidding process for failing banks has become very competitive, and we may not be able to match or beat the bids of other acquirers unless we bid aggressively by increasing the premium paid on assumed deposits, reducing the discount bid on assets purchased or taking other actions, any of which could make the acquisition less attractive. The FDIC Policy Statement will limit our ability to acquire failed banks, which may harm our competitive position. As the agency responsible for resolving failed depository institutions, the FDIC has discretion to determine whether a party is qualified to bid on a failed institution. The FDIC Policy Statement imposes additional restrictions and requirements on certain “private investors” and institutions, to the extent that those investors or institutions seek to acquire a failed institution from the FDIC. These include, among others, a requirement that certain private investors in those institutions agree to a three-year transfer restriction on their shares. Since its initial adoption on August 26, 2009, the FDIC has issued several interpretations which have modified the Policy Statement and the FDIC may change it in the future. On April 23, 2010, the FDIC issued an interpretation that would permit a recapitalized institution (such as Sterling) to acquire failed banks without being subject to the FDIC Policy Statement, provided the assets of the failed banks acquired during the 18 months following a recapitalization do not exceed 100% of the total assets of the recapitalized institution. It is not clear how the FDIC would calculate percentage of assets, and whether that percentage is based on assets at the time of the Recapitalization or whether the percentage is based on growth or contraction in an institution over time. We do not intend to make any acquisition that would subject us to the FDIC Policy Statement absent the consent of those shareholders to whom the FDIC Policy Statement would apply, and it is possible that any such consent might not be obtained. If we are able to obtain requisite shareholder consent to be bound by the FDIC Policy Statement and we enter into such transactions, our operating flexibility could be harmed by having to comply with the other requirements set forth in the FDIC Policy Statement. On the other hand, if we are not able to pursue transactions that we otherwise believe are attractive, our growth strategy, competitive position, and stock price may be adversely affected. We could be materially and adversely affected if we or any of our officers or directors fail to comply with bank and other laws and regulations. As a bank holding company, Sterling is subject to extensive regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and face risks associated with investigations and proceedings by regulatory agencies, including those that we may believe to be immaterial. Like any corporation, we are also subject to risk arising from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with our policies. Any interventions by authorities may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, suspension or expulsion of our officers or directors from the banking industry or other relief. In addition to the monetary consequences, these measures could, for example, impact our ability to engage in, or impose limitations on, certain of our businesses. The number of these investigations and proceedings, as well as the amount of penalties and fines sought, has increased substantially in recent years with regard to many firms in the industry. Significant regulatory action against us or our officers or directors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. Our common stock is equity and is subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness, and our common stock would be subordinate to any future preferred stock. Shares of our common stock are equity interests in Sterling, do not constitute indebtedness, and, therefore, are not insured against loss by the FDIC or by any other public or private entity. Shares of our common stock will rank junior to all of our indebtedness and to other non-equity claims against us and our assets available to satisfy such claims, TX27 Table of Contents including in liquidation. Our board of directors is authorized to issue additional classes or series of preferred stock without any action on the part of the holders of our common stock, and the holders of our common stock do not have the right to prevent us from incurring indebtedness or other claims. Resales of our common stock may be impeded by transfer restrictions. Subject to certain exceptions, our common stock issued in connection with the Recapitalization is subject to transfer restrictions designed to prevent (a) any person from acquiring ownership, for relevant tax purposes, of 5% or more of our shares and (b) the disposition of shares by any person that owns 5% or more of our shares, subject to certain exceptions. These restrictions may adversely affect the ability of certain shareholders to resell our common stock by rendering any transactions in violation of this prohibition void. We have also amended our restated articles of incorporation to impose these transfer restrictions on all holders of our common stock. In addition, on April 14, 2010, we adopted a shareholder rights plan (the “Rights Plan”), which is described in our Form 8-K filed on April 15, 2010. In December of 2010, we amended the Rights Plan to extend the expiration of the plan until August 26, 2013. The purpose of the Rights Plan is to minimize the likelihood of an “ownership change,” as defined in Section 382 of the Code, and thus to protect our ability to use our net operating loss carry-forward and certain built-in losses to offset future income. The Rights Plan provides an economic disincentive for any one person or group to become a Threshold Holder (as defined therein, generally an owner of 5% or more of our stock) and for any existing Threshold Holder to acquire more than a specified amount of additional shares, and so may adversely affect one’s ability to resell our common stock and negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. In addition, shareholders that are not residents of the Republic of Korea, will not be permitted to sell or transfer Sterling shares to a Korean resident until August 26, 2011, and shareholders residing in the Republic of Korea, will not be permitted to sell or transfer Sterling shares to another Korean resident other than a professional investor until August 26, 2011; provided that, in each case, such restrictions shall not apply to open market transactions effected through the New York Stock Exchange or NASDAQ. These restrictions may limit the ability of shareholders to resell Sterling shares. We are not currently able to pay dividends on our common stock. Under the terms of our junior subordinated notes and the trust documents relating to our trust preferred securities, Sterling is allowed to defer payments of interest for up to 20 consecutive quarterly periods without default. During the deferral period, however, Sterling may not pay cash dividends on or repurchase common stock, until all accrued interest payments are paid and regularly scheduled interest payments are resumed. Sterling is currently, and expects to continue to be, in deferral on the payment of interest relating to the trust preferred securities and will therefore be unable to pay cash dividends on common stock or preferred stock in the foreseeable future. Pursuant to the terms of the Treasury Exchange, subject to certain exceptions, we will be unable to pay cash dividends on common stock without the Treasury’s consent until the earlier of December 5, 2011, or such time as the Treasury ceases to own any debt or equity securities acquired pursuant to the Exchange Agreement or Treasury’s warrant. Under the SSB MOU and the Reserve Bank Agreement, we are prohibited from paying dividends without the prior approval of the FDIC, WDFI and the Reserve Bank. See “Dividend Policy” below. We may suffer substantial losses due to our agreements to indemnify certain investors against a broad range of potential claims. In connection with the Recapitalization, we have agreed to indemnify THL, Warburg Pincus, the Private Placement Investors and certain related parties for a broad range of claims, including any inaccuracies or breaches of our representations and warranties in the relevant Recapitalization agreements and any losses arising out of or resulting from any legal, administrative or other proceedings arising out of the transactions contemplated by the relevant Recapitalization agreements and the terms of the securities being offered. While these indemnities are capped at the TX28 Table of Contents aggregate purchase price of $730 million, if all or some claims were successfully brought against Sterling, it could potentially result in significant losses for Sterling. As a result of the Recapitalization, THL and Warburg Pincus are substantial holders of our common stock. Following the closing of the Recapitalization, THL and Warburg Pincus each became beneficial owners of our outstanding common stock, with their respective ownership percentages each equating to approximately 23% as of January 31, 2011, assuming the full exercise of such Anchor Investor’s warrant. Each has a representative on our Board of Directors. Accordingly, THL and Warburg Pincus have substantial influence over the election of directors to our board and over corporate policy, including decisions to enter into mergers or other extraordinary transactions. In addition, as part of the negotiations for the Anchor Investments, THL and Warburg Pincus requested, and our board of directors agreed to grant, pre-emptive rights to maintain THL’s and Warburg Pincus’s fully diluted percentage ownership of our common stock in the event of certain issuances of securities by us. In pursuing its economic interests, THL and Warburg Pincus may make decisions with respect to fundamental corporate transactions that may not be aligned with the interests of other shareholders. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, which could cause the value of our common stock to decline. In recent periods, the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in price. This volatility is in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: Ÿ actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results from historical results or estimates of results prepared by securities analysts; Ÿ announcements of new services or products by us or our competitors; Ÿ announcements by us of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; Ÿ conditions or trends in the financial industry; Ÿ additions or departures of key personnel; Ÿ general economic conditions and interest rates; Ÿ the sales and trading volume of our common stock; Ÿ instability in the United States and other financial markets and the ongoing and possible escalation of unrest in the Middle East, other armed hostilities or further acts or threats of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere; Ÿ the potential impact of the secondary trading of our stock on foreign exchanges that are subject to less regulatory oversight than the NASDAQ Capital Market, without our permission, and the activity of the market makers of our stock on such exchanges, including the risk that such market makers may engage in “naked” short sales and/or other deceptive trading practices that may artificially depress or otherwise affect the price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market; Ÿ earnings estimates and recommendations of securities analysts; Ÿ the performance and stock price of other companies that investors and analysts deem comparable to us; Ÿ the soundness or predicted soundness of other financial institutions; and Ÿ the public perception of the banking industry and its safety and soundness. In addition, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Capital Market and the market for commercial banks and other financial services companies in particular, has experienced significant price and volume volatility that sometimes have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. Sterling is currently engaged in securities class action litigation, the Employee Retirement Income Security TX29 Table of Contents Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”) class action litigation, and derivative class action litigation, and these actions or any other suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of management’s attention and resources. As a result of these factors, among others, the value of your investment may decline, and you may be unable to sell your shares of our common stock at or above your purchase price. See “Legal Proceedings.” The trading volume of our common stock is lower than that of other financial services companies. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “STSA.” The average daily trading volume for shares of our common stock is lower than larger financial institutions. During the 12 months ended December 31, 2010, the average daily trading volume for our common stock was 27,852 shares. As a result, sales of our common stock may place significant downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, it may be difficult for holders to resell their shares at prices they find attractive, or at all. Our ability to realize the benefit of our deferred tax assets may be materially impaired. As of December 31, 2010, our net deferred tax asset was approximately $359 million, which includes approximately $263 million of federal and state net operating losses (“NOLs”). We currently have a valuation allowance of $359 million against this deferred tax asset. Our ability to use our deferred tax assets to offset future taxable income will be limited if we experience an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Code. As a result of the Recapitalization we are now close to the “ownership change” threshold. In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative increase in our ownership by “5-percent shareholders” (as defined in the Code) that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. A corporation that experiences an ownership change will generally be subject to an annual limitation on the use of its pre-ownership change deferred tax assets equal to the equity value of the corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate. While we have implemented measures to reduce the likelihood that future transactions in our common stock will result in an ownership change, such an ownership change might occur in the future. More specifically, while the Rights Plan we have adopted, as well as the protective amendment to our restated articles of incorporation approved by our shareholders, are intended to discourage or prevent transfers of Sterling shares that would increase a shareholder’s ownership to 5% or more of our common stock or that would increase the percentage of our common stock owned by a shareholder already deemed to be a “5-percent shareholder”, these restrictions might not deter a shareholder from increasing its ownership interests beyond these limits. Such an increase could adversely affect our ownership change calculations. Our calculations regarding our current cumulative change and the likelihood of a future ownership change are based on current law. Any change in applicable law may result in an ownership change. We have incurred significant losses since the fourth quarter of 2008 and may continue do so in the future. Cumulatively, from the fourth quarter of 2008 through the fourth quarter of 2010, Sterling has incurred a net loss of $1.42 billion, primarily due to a $1.16 billion provision for credit losses, a $451.3 million charge for goodwill impairment and the establishment of a $359.0 million deferred tax asset valuation allowance. In light of the current economic environment, significant additional provisions for credit losses may be necessary to supplement the allowance for credit losses in the future. As a result, we may incur significant credit costs in 2011 and future periods, which would continue to have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations, and could adversely affect the price of, and market for, our common stock. Our estimated allowance for losses in our loan portfolio may be inadequate, which would cause our results of operations and financial condition to be adversely affected. We maintain an allowance for credit losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for credit losses charged as an expense and represents TX30 Table of Contents management’s best estimate of incurred losses within our existing portfolio of loans. The level of the allowance reflects management’s estimates based upon various assumptions and judgments as to specific credit risks, evaluation of industry concentrations, loan loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires management to make significant estimates and judgments regarding current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. If our estimates prove to be incorrect, our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses in our loan portfolio and our expense relating to the additional provision for credit losses could increase substantially. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the adequacy of our allowance for credit losses as part of their examination process, and may require an increase in the provision for possible credit losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs. Any such increases in the allowance for credit losses may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and the value of our common stock. The effects of the current economic recession have been particularly severe in our primary market areas in the Pacific Northwest and California. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Montana and California. The Pacific Northwest and California have some of the nation’s highest unemployment rates, and major employers in Washington, Oregon, Idaho and California have recently implemented substantial employee layoffs or scaled back growth plans. Severe declines in housing prices and property values have been particularly acute in our primary market areas, and each state continues to face fiscal challenges, which may have adverse long term effects on the economy of our region. A further deterioration in the economic conditions or a prolonged delay in economic recovery in our primary market areas could result in the following consequences, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business: collateral for loans, especially real estate, may decline further in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power and further reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans; loan delinquencies may increase; problem assets and foreclosures may increase; demand for our products and services may decrease; and access to low cost or noninterest bearing deposits may decrease. A large percentage of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. Continued deterioration in the real estate market or other segments of our loan portfolio would lead to additional losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 89% of our loan portfolio was secured by real estate as of December 31, 2010. As a result of increased levels of commercial and consumer delinquencies and declining real estate values, we have experienced increasing levels of net charge-offs and provisions for credit losses. Continued increases in commercial and consumer delinquency levels or continued declines in real estate market values would require increased net charge-offs and increases in the provision for credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and prospects. Acts of nature, including earthquakes, floods and fires, which may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures these loans, may also have a negative impact on our financial condition. In addition, we may face risks associated with our real estate lending under various federal, state and local environmental laws that impose certain requirements on the owner or operator of a property. A portion of our loan portfolio is secured by non-owner-occupied commercial real estate, which generally involves a higher degree of risk than owner-occupied commercial loans. At December 31, 2010, approximately 23% of our commercial real estate secured loans were secured by non-owner-occupied commercial real estate. Non-owner-occupied commercial real estate loans generally depend on the cash flow from the property to service the debt. Cash flow may be significantly affected by general economic conditions. Many of TX31 Table of Contents our non-owner occupied commercial real estate borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, losses incurred on loans to a small number of borrowers could have a material adverse impact on our income and financial condition. A rapid change in interest rates could make it difficult to maintain our current net interest income spread and could result in reduced earnings. Our earnings are largely derived from net interest income, which is interest income earned on loans and investments, less interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the control of our management, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. With fixed rate assets (such as fixed rate loans and most investment securities) and liabilities (such as certificates of deposit), the effect on net interest income depends on the cash flows associated with the maturity of the asset or liability. Asset/liability management policy may not be successfully implemented and from time to time our risk position is not balanced. An unanticipated rapid decrease or increase in interest rates could have an adverse effect on the spreads between the interest rates earned on assets and the rates of interest paid on liabilities, and therefore on the level of net interest income. For instance, any rapid increase in interest rates in the future could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of fixed rate loans and longer-term investments. Further, substantially higher interest rates could reduce loan demand and may result in slower loan growth than previously experienced. This could have an adverse negative effect on our earnings. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of many factors, which may reduce profitability. Our cost of funds may increase because of general economic conditions, unfavorable conditions in the capital markets, changes in interest rates, government intervention and support of competitors, government price controls and competitive pressures. We have traditionally obtained funds principally through deposits and, to a lesser extent, other borrowings, including repurchase agreements. As a general rule, deposits are a cheaper and more stable source of funds than borrowings. Checking and savings account balances and other forms of deposits can decrease when our deposit customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market or other non-depository investments, as providing superior expected returns, seek to spread their deposits over several banks to maximize FDIC insurance coverage or perceive weakness in our financial stability. Furthermore, technology and other changes have made it more convenient for bank customers to transfer funds into alternative investments, including products offered by other financial institutions or non-bank service providers. Additional increases in short-term interest rates could increase transfers of deposits to higher yielding deposits. Efforts and initiatives we undertake to retain and increase deposits, including deposit pricing, can increase our costs. When bank customers move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments or into higher yielding deposits, or spread their accounts over several banks, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, thus increasing our funding costs. If, as a result of general economic conditions, market interest rates, competitive pressures or other factors, our level of deposits decreases relative to our overall banking activities, we may need to rely more heavily on borrowings and/or wholesale funding as a source of funds, and this may negatively impact our net interest margin and subject us to additional liquidity and funding risks. We may have reduced access to wholesale funding sources. As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain sufficient collateral or access to funding at acceptable interest rates. If we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources, and our revenues do not increase in proportion with our costs, our profitability will be impacted. TX32 Table of Contents We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, and further regulatory actions against us may impair our operations or restrict our growth. Sterling and Sterling Savings Bank are subject to extensive regulation under federal and state laws including those of the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the WDFI. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect customers, depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund rather than shareholders. In addition, Sterling is subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve and the SEC and to the listing standards of the NASDAQ Capital Market. Sterling Savings Bank is also subject to the supervision by and the regulations of the FDIC, and the state agencies for the states in which it conducts business. As a Washington state-chartered commercial bank, Sterling Savings Bank is primarily regulated by the WDFI. Statutes and regulations affecting our business may be changed at any time, and the interpretation of these statutes and regulations by examining authorities may also change. Within the last several years, Congress and the President have passed and enacted significant changes to these statutes and regulations, including most recently, the Dodd-Frank Act signed into law on July 21, 2010. Such changes to the statutes and regulations or to their interpretation may adversely affect our business. In addition to governmental supervision and regulation, we are subject to changes in other federal and state laws, including changes in tax laws, which could materially affect the banking industry. The regulators may continue to limit our activities or growth and may impose monetary penalties, which could severely limit or end certain of our operations. Banking laws and regulations change from time to time. Bank regulations can hinder our ability to compete with financial services companies that are not regulated in the same manner or are less regulated. Bank regulatory authorities have the authority to bring enforcement actions against banks and bank holding companies for unsafe or unsound practices in the conduct of their businesses or for violations of any law, rule or regulation, any condition imposed in writing by the appropriate bank regulatory agency or any written agreement with the authority. Recent changes have created regulatory uncertainty. Regulation of the financial services industry is undergoing major changes. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly revises and expands the rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority of federal bank regulators. Although the statute will have a greater impact on larger institutions than regional bank holding companies such as Sterling, many of its provisions will apply to us. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act: Ÿ is changing the capital requirements for bank holding companies and would require less favorable capital treatment for future issuances of trust preferred (although our existing trust preferred are grandfathered and therefore not subject to the new rules); Ÿ raises prudential standards by requiring, for instance, annual internal stress testing and establishment of independent risk committees for banks with $10 billion or more in assets; Ÿ grants the FDIC back-up supervisory authority with respect to depository institution holding companies that engage in conduct that poses a foreseeable and material risk to the Deposit Insurance Fund, and heightens the Federal Reserve’s authority to examine, prescribe regulations and take action with respect to all subsidiaries of a bank holding company; Ÿ prohibits insured state-chartered banks from engaging in derivatives transactions unless the chartering state’s lending limit laws take into consideration credit exposure to derivative transactions; Ÿ specifies that a bank holding company may acquire control of an out-of-state bank only if it is well-capitalized and well-managed, and does not allow interstate merger transactions unless the resulting bank would be well-capitalized and well-managed after the transaction; Ÿ changes how the FDIC calculates deposit insurance assessments and effectively requires increases in deposit insurance fees that will be borne primarily by institutions with assets of greater than $10 billion; TX33 Table of Contents Ÿ subjects both large and small financial institutions to data and information gathering by a newly created Office of Financial Research; Ÿ requires retention of 5% of the credit risk in assets transferred, sold or conveyed through issuances of asset-backed securities, with the risk-retention obligation spread between securitizers and originators; Ÿ creates a new Consumer Bureau given rulemaking, examination and enforcement authority over consumer protection matters, imposes limits on debit card interchange fees that may be charged by card issuers with $10 billion or more in assets and contains provisions on mortgage-related matters such as steering incentives, determinations as to a borrowers’ ability to repay and prepayment penalties; and Ÿ mandates and allows certain changes regarding corporate governance and executive compensation such as shareholder proxy access for publicly traded banks’ director nominations, clawback of incentive-based compensation from executive officers and increased disclosure on compensation arrangements. Some of these changes are effective immediately, though most will be phased in gradually. In addition, the statute in many instances calls for future rulemaking to implement its provisions, so the precise contours of the law and its effects on us cannot yet be fully understood. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and the subsequent exercise by regulators of their revised and expanded powers thereunder could materially impact the profitability of our business, the value of assets we hold or the collateral available for our loans, require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses and expose us to additional costs, taxes, liabilities, enforcement actions and reputational risk. Legislators and regulators are also considering a wide range of proposals beyond the Dodd-Frank Act that, if enacted, could result in major changes to the way banking operations are regulated. We may be subject to more stringent capital requirements. As discussed above, the Dodd-Frank Act would require the federal banking agencies to establish stricter risk-based capital requirements and leverage limits to apply to banks and bank holding companies. In addition, the “Basel III” standards recently announced by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”), if adopted, could lead to significantly higher capital requirements, higher capital charges and more restrictive leverage and liquidity ratios. The standards would, among other things, impose more restrictive eligibility requirements for Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital; increase the minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio to 4.5%, net of regulatory deductions, and introduce a capital conservation buffer of an additional 2.5% of common equity to risk-weighted assets, raising the target minimum common equity ratio to 7%; increase the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio to 8.5% inclusive of the capital conservation buffer; increase the minimum total capital ratio to 10.5% inclusive of the capital buffer; and introduce a countercyclical capital buffer of up to 2.5% of common equity or other fully loss absorbing capital for periods of excess credit growth. Basel III also introduces a non-risk adjusted Tier 1 leverage ratio of 3%, based on a measure of total exposure rather than total assets, and new liquidity standards. The new Basel III capital standards will be phased in from January 1, 2013 until January 1, 2019, and it is not yet known how these standards will be implemented by U.S. regulators generally or how they will be applied to financial institutions of our size. Implementation of these standards, or any other new regulations, may adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, or require us to restrict growth or raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected and may continue to have an adverse effect on our industry. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing difficulty for more than three years. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past three years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have had a negative impact on the performance of mortgage loans and have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to TX34 Table of Contents merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets will improve only slowly in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: Ÿ While increased regulation and enforcement is now certain in the financial sector, with increased compliance costs, the scope of such regulation is uncertain, and that uncertainty affects our business opportunities and plans. Ÿ Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behaviors. Ÿ The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our loan portfolio requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation and may, in turn, have a negative impact on the reliability of the process. Ÿ The market value and trading volume of our common stock may be subject to increased volatility. Ÿ Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions and government sponsored entities. Ÿ We may face increased competition due to intensified consolidation of the financial services industry. If a failure or slowing of the current modest recovery from recessionary conditions occurs, we may experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value of our investment and MBS securities portfolio may be negatively affected by interest rate changes or disruptions in securities markets and we may realize losses on our investment securities in future periods. The market for some of the investment securities held in our portfolio experienced extreme volatility over the past two years. Volatile market conditions may detrimentally affect the value of these securities, such as through reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks. Declines in market value associated with these disruptions may result in other-than-temporary or permanent impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income, capital levels and liquidity. In addition, we held $201.1 million of municipal bonds as of December 31, 2010. The current economic downturn has impacted the credit worthiness of a number of municipalities. A continued or further decline in the economy could result in credit ratings downgrades for the municipalities that have issued the bonds held by us, which could negatively impact the value of the bonds. A decline in the value of our FHLB common stock may occur, resulting in an other-than-temporary impairment charge which would cause our earnings and shareholders’ equity to decrease. We own common stock of the FHLB in order to qualify for membership in the FHLB system, which enables us to borrow funds under the FHLB advance program. The carrying value of our FHLB common TX35 Table of Contents stock was approximately $100 million as of December 31, 2010, the substantial majority of which was with the FHLB of Seattle. The FHLB Seattle has experienced losses from credit-related charges associated with projected losses on its investments in private-label mortgage-backed securities, and is currently unable to repurchase or redeem capital stock or to pay dividends. Consequently, for this and other reasons, there is a risk that our investment in the common stock of the FHLB could be deemed other than temporarily impaired at some time in the future, which would adversely affect our earnings, our shareholders’ equity and the value of our common stock. As a bank holding company that conducts substantially all of our operations through our banking subsidiary, Sterling Savings Bank, our ability to pay dividends, repurchase our shares or to repay our indebtedness depends upon liquid assets held by the holding company and the results of operations of our subsidiary. Sterling is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries, and receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends paid by Sterling Savings Bank. There are legal limitations on the extent to which Sterling Savings Bank may extend credit, pay dividends or otherwise supply funds to, or engage in transactions with Sterling. A prolonged inability to receive dividends from Sterling Savings Bank would reduce liquidity available to Sterling, which could adversely affect Sterling’s financial condition. Sterling’s net income depends primarily upon Sterling Savings Bank’s net interest income, which is the income that remains after deducting from total income generated by earning assets the expense attributable to the acquisition of the funds required to support earning assets (primarily interest paid on deposits). The amount of interest income is dependent on many factors including the volume of earning assets, the general level of interest rates, the dynamics of changes in interest rates and the levels of nonperforming loans. All of those factors affect our banking subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends to the holding company. Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends Sterling Savings Bank can pay to Sterling without regulatory approval. Sterling Savings Bank may not pay cash dividends if those payments could reduce the amount of its capital below that necessary to meet the “adequately capitalized” level in accordance with regulatory capital requirements. Sterling Savings Bank is also restricted from paying dividends to Sterling pursuant to the terms of the SSB MOU. It is also possible that, depending upon the financial condition of Sterling Savings Bank and other factors, regulatory authorities could assert that payment of dividends or other payments, including payments to us, is an unsafe or unsound practice. Under Washington banking law, Sterling Savings Bank may not pay a dividend greater than its retained earnings without WDFI approval. We are currently subject to certain pending shareholder litigation and may be subject to similar claims in the future. A securities class action lawsuit has been filed against Sterling and certain of our current and former officers alleging that the defendants violated sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the U.S. Exchange Act and SEC Rule 10b-5 by making false and misleading statements concerning our business and financial results. A shareholder derivative suit also has been filed against certain of our current and former officers and directors, and Sterling as a nominal defendant, alleging breaches of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets, and unjust enrichment. A class action lawsuit is also pending against Sterling, and certain current and former officers and directors of Sterling, alleging violations of ERISA, by breaching their fiduciary duties to participants in the Sterling Savings Bank Employee Savings and Investment Plan and Trust. These lawsuits are all premised on similar allegations that: 1) the defendants failed to adequately disclose the extent of Sterling’s delinquent commercial real estate, construction and land development loans, properly record losses for impaired loans, properly reserve for loan losses, and properly account for goodwill and deferred tax assets, thereby causing Sterling’s stock price to be artificially inflated during the purported class period; or 2) the defendants failed to prevent Sterling from issuing improper financial statements, maintain a sufficient allowance for loan and lease losses, and establish effective credit risk management and oversight mechanisms. It is possible that additional suits will be filed with respect to these same matters and also naming Sterling and/or its current and former officers and directors. TX36 Table of Contents These lawsuits could divert the attention and resources of our management and cause us to incur significant expenses for legal fees and costs, including those associated with our advancement of fees and costs on behalf of our current and former officers and directors. We cannot predict the outcome of any of these lawsuits. Since the legal responsibility and financial impact with respect to these lawsuits and claims, if any, cannot currently be ascertained, we have not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to the lawsuits. An unfavorable outcome in any of these lawsuits could result in the payment of substantial damages in connection with a settlement or judgment and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The financial services industry is highly competitive. We face pricing competition for loans and deposits. We also face competition with respect to customer convenience, product lines, accessibility of service and service capabilities. Our most direct competition comes from other banks, brokerages, mortgage companies and savings institutions. We also face competition from credit unions, government-sponsored enterprises, mutual fund companies, insurance companies and other non-bank businesses. A number of these banks and other financial institutions are significantly larger than we are and have substantially greater access to capital and other resources, as well as larger lending limits and branch systems, and offer a wider array of banking services. Many of our nonbank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that apply to financial institutions. As a result, these non-bank competitors have advantages over us in providing certain services. This significant competition in attracting and retaining deposits and making loans as well as in providing other financial services throughout our market area may have an adverse impact on future earnings and growth. Our business is highly reliant on technology and our ability to manage the operational risks associated with technology and we are in the process of converting to a new core processing system. We depend on internal and outsourced technology to support all aspects of our business operations. We expect to convert from the core processing system that is used to manage customer accounts to a processing system offered by another software vendor during the second quarter of 2011. Interruption or failure of these systems creates a risk of business loss as a result of adverse customer experiences, damage claims and civil fines. Risk management programs are expensive to maintain and will not protect us from all risks associated with maintaining the security of customer information, proprietary data, external and internal intrusions, disaster recovery and failures in the controls used by vendors. Changes in accounting standards may have a material impact on how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can have a material impact on how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a restatement of prior period financial statements. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans in some circumstances, which could harm our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. When we sell mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make certain representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. Our sales agreements on whole loans require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event we breach any of these representations or warranties. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default of the borrower on a mortgage loan. Likewise, we are required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. The TX37 Table of Contents remedies available to us against the originating broker or correspondent may not be as broad as the remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans against us, and we face the further risk that the originating broker or correspondent may not have the financial capacity to perform remedies that otherwise may be available to us. Therefore, if a purchaser enforces its remedies against us, we may not be able to recover our losses from the originating broker or correspondent. If repurchase and indemnity demands increase, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Our operations could be interrupted if our third-party service providers experience difficulty, terminate their services or fail to comply with banking regulations. We depend, and will continue to depend, to a significant extent, on a number of relationships with third-party service providers. Specifically, we receive core systems processing, essential web hosting and other Internet systems and deposit and other transaction processing services from third-party service providers. If these third-party service providers experience difficulties or terminate their services, and we are unable to replace them with other service providers, our operations could be interrupted. If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our internal control systems could fail to detect certain events. We are subject to certain operations risks, including but not limited to data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. We maintain a system of internal controls to mitigate against such occurrences and maintain insurance coverage for such risks, but should such an event occur that is not prevented or detected by our internal controls, uninsured or in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The network and computer systems on which we depend could fail or experience a security breach. Our computer systems could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Because we conduct part of our business over the Internet and outsource several critical functions to third parties, operations will depend on our ability, as well as the ability of third-party service providers, to protect computer systems and network infrastructure against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, physical break-ins or similar catastrophic events. Any damage or failure that causes interruptions in operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a significant barrier to online financial transactions is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our Internet banking system relies on encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms our third-party service providers use to protect customer transaction data. If any such compromise of security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be held responsible for environmental liabilities of properties acquired through foreclosure. If we are forced to foreclose on a defaulted mortgage loan to recover our investment, we may be subject to environmental liabilities related to the underlying real property. Hazardous substances or wastes, contaminants, pollutants or sources thereof may be discovered on properties during our ownership or after a sale to a third party. The amount of environmental liability could exceed the value of real property. We may be fully liable for the entire cost of any removal and clean-up on an acquired property, the cost of removal and clean-up may exceed the value of the property, and we may be unable to recover costs from any third party. In addition, we may find it difficult or impossible to sell the property prior to or following any environmental remediation. TX38 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 