Item 1A. Risk FactorsSet forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of, and market for, shares of Sterling common stock could decline due to any of these risks. The Merger is subject to regulatory approval and other customary closing conditions, which may not be received, may take longer than expected or may impose conditions that are not presently anticipated or that could have an adverse effect on the combined company following the Merger. Before the Merger and the Bank Merger may be completed, Sterling and Umpqua must obtain approvals from the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC. Other approvals, waivers or consents from regulators may also be required. In determining whether to grant these regulatory approvals the regulators consider a variety of factors, including the regulatory standing of each party and the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the combined company. An adverse development in either company's regulatory standing or other factors could result in an inability to obtain approval or delay receipt of approval. These regulators may impose conditions on the completion of the Merger or the Bank Merger or require changes to the terms of the Merger or the Bank Merger. Such conditions or changes could have the effect of delaying or preventing completion of the Merger or the Bank Merger or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues of the combined company following the Merger and the Bank Merger, any of which might have an adverse effect on the combined company following the Merger.Combining the two companies may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected and the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the Merger may not be realized. Sterling and Umpqua have operated and, until the completion of the Merger, will continue to operate, independently. The success of the Merger, including anticipated benefits and cost savings, will depend, in part, on Umpqua's ability to successfully combine and integrate the businesses of Sterling and Umpqua in a manner that permits growth opportunities and does not materially disrupt the existing customer relations nor result in decreased revenues due to loss of customers. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of either company's ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the combined company's ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the Merger. If difficulties with the integration process are encountered, the anticipated benefits of the Merger may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. As with any merger of financial institutions, there also may be business disruptions that cause Sterling to lose customers or cause customers to remove their accounts from Sterling and move their business to competing financial institutions. Integration efforts between the two companies will also divert management attention and resources. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on Sterling during this transition period and for an undetermined period on the combined company after completion of the Merger.Termination of the merger agreement could negatively impact Sterling. If the merger agreement is terminated, there may be various consequences. For example, Sterling's businesses may have been impacted adversely by the failure to pursue other beneficial opportunities due to the focus of management on the Merger, without realizing any of the anticipated benefits of completing the Merger. Additionally, if the merger agreement is terminated, the market price of Sterling's common stock could decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the Merger will be completed. If the Merger agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, Sterling may be required to pay to Umpqua a termination fee of $75 million.Sterling will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the Merger is pending. Uncertainty about the effect of the Merger on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on Sterling. These uncertainties may impair Sterling's ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the Merger and associated integration process is completed, and could cause customers and others that deal with Sterling to seek to change or terminate existing business relationships with Sterling. Retention of certain employees by Sterling may be challenging while the Merger is pending, as certain employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with Sterling. If key employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with Sterling, Sterling's business could be harmed. In addition, subject to certain exceptions, Sterling has agreed to operate its business in the ordinary course and to comply with certain other operational restrictions, prior to closing.18Table of ContentsIf the Merger is not completed, Sterling will have incurred substantial expenses without realizing the expected benefits of the Merger. Sterling has incurred and will incur substantial expenses in connection with the negotiation and completion of the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement. If the Merger is not completed, Sterling would have to recognize these expenses without realizing the expected benefits of the Merger.The merger agreement limits Sterling's ability to pursue acquisition proposals and requires Sterling to pay a termination fee of $75 million under limited circumstances relating to alternative acquisition proposals. Additionally, these and other provisions of the merger agreement, Sterling's articles of incorporation and bylaws and Washington law may deter potential acquirers. The merger agreement prohibits Sterling and Umpqua from soliciting, initiating, knowingly encouraging or knowingly facilitating certain third-party acquisition proposals. The merger agreement also provides that Sterling must pay a termination fee in the amount of $75 million in the event that the merger agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, including a termination resulting from Sterling's failure to abide by certain obligations not to solicit alternate acquisition proposals. Further, the merger agreement also prohibits Sterling from waiving confidentiality and standstill provisions in its favor in existing agreements with third parties. These provisions may discourage or prohibit a potential competing acquirer that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of Sterling from considering or proposing an alternative acquisition. In addition, under Washington law, certain business combinations involving Sterling with its large shareholders are restricted without the approval of the board of directors of Sterling.These provisions and agreements, and other provisions of Sterling's articles of incorporation or bylaws or of the Washington Business Corporation Act, could make it more difficult for an acquirer to acquire control of Sterling or may discourage a potential competing acquirer.Our allowance for loan losses, or the amount of capital we hold, may be insufficient. We maintain an allowance for credit losses, with the level of the allowance reflecting estimates as to future losses. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires management to make significant estimates and judgments regarding current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. If our estimates prove to be incorrect, our allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover our actual loan losses. Bank regulatory agencies periodically review the adequacy of our allowance for credit losses as part of their examination process, and may require an increase therein. We are required to maintain a certain level of capital. The level of required capital to hold may change through new regulations. Also, the level of capital we hold changes, based on our financial performance, and balance sheet size and composition. We may be required to raise capital in the future, and it may be at a time that the capital is not available to us or not available at favorable terms. Credit risk concentrations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. A large portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, which is primarily located in the Pacific Northwest and California. In addition, a significant portion of our multifamily loans originated since 2011 are secured by properties located in the greater Los Angeles and San Francisco markets. Deterioration in the economic conditions or a prolonged delay in economic recovery in our primary market areas could result in the following consequences, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business: collateral for loans, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power and the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans; loan delinquencies may increase; problem assets and foreclosures may increase; demand for our products and services may decrease; and access to low cost or noninterest bearing deposits may decrease. Approximately 45% of our loan portfolio was comprised of commercial real estate loans as of December 31, 2013. Included in commercial real estate loans are investor real estate loans, which may have a higher degree of risk than some other loan types, as they typically are dependent on the cash flows generated from the underlying property. Commercial and consumer delinquency levels and real estate market values could affect our level of net charge-offs and provision for credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and prospects. Acts of nature, including earthquakes, floods and fires, which may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures these loans, may also have a negative impact on our financial condition. In addition, we may face risks associated with our real estate lending under various federal, state and local environmental laws that impose certain requirements on the owner or operator of a property. Interest rate risk is inherently present in our business. As a financial institution, the substantial majority of our assets and liabilities are subject to interest rate risk, which affects both the life and value of our interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities, such as loans, investments and MBS, mortgage servicing rights, deposits and borrowings. The level of sensitivity for 19Table of Contentsthese interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities to changes in interest rates is measured by duration, with duration mismatches combined with changes from both shifts and twists in the yield curve affecting both our future net interest income and the current economic value of Sterling's equity. Exposure to interest rate risk may have an adverse effect on our profitability, financial condition and liquidity, including a decline in our net interest margin, fair value charges on certain assets, such as mortgage servicing rights and requests for additional collateral on certain of our secured borrowings. Increases in interest rates may shorten the life of certain of our liabilities, and we would have to replace these funds with alternative funds at a higher cost, or sell assets to meet liquidity requirements. Decreases in interest rates may shorten the life of certain of our assets, and we would be faced with reinvesting the funds at lower rates or retiring certain of our funding liabilities at unfavorable prices. General economic conditions and developments affect our operating results and financial condition. Our business is affected by conditions outside our control, including the rate of economic growth in general, the level of unemployment, increases in inflation and the level of interest rates. Economic conditions affect the level of demand for and the profitability of our products and services. A slowdown in the general economic recovery, particularly in the Western United States, could negatively impact our business. The fiscal and monetary policies of the United States government, and its level of indebtedness may have an impact on interest rates and inflation, which may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. Our profitability is greatly dependent upon our earning a positive interest spread between our loan and securities portfolio, and our funding deposits and borrowings. Changes in the level of interest rates, or a prolonged unfavorable interest rate environment, or a decrease in our level of deposits that increases our cost of funds could negatively affect our profitability and financial condition. We are currently subject to certain pending litigation, and may be subject to litigation in the future. A securities class action lawsuit has been filed against Sterling and certain of Sterling's current and former officers alleging that the defendants violated sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act and SEC Rule 10b-5 by making false and misleading statements concerning our business and financial results. This lawsuit is premised on allegations that: 1) the defendants failed to adequately disclose the extent of Sterling's delinquent commercial real estate, construction and land development loans, properly record losses for impaired loans, properly reserve for loan losses, and properly account for goodwill and deferred tax assets, thereby causing Sterling's stock price to be artificially inflated during the purported class period; or 2) the defendants failed to prevent Sterling from issuing improper financial statements, maintain a sufficient allowance for loan and lease losses, and establish effective credit risk management and oversight mechanisms. In connection with the Merger, purported Sterling shareholders have filed putative shareholder class action lawsuits against Sterling, the members of the Sterling board of directors and Umpqua. Among other remedies, the plaintiffs seek to enjoin the Merger. Although the parties to the litigation have entered into a memorandum of understanding to settle the consolidated litigation, the settlement is subject to certain conditions. If the cases are not resolved, these lawsuits could prevent or delay completion of the Merger and result in substantial costs to Umpqua and Sterling, including any costs associated with the indemnification of directors and officers. Plaintiffs may file additional lawsuits against Umpqua, Sterling and/or the directors and officers of either company in connection with the Merger. These lawsuits could divert resources of our management and cause us to incur significant expenses for legal fees and costs, including those associated with our advancement of fees and costs on behalf of our current and former officers and directors. We cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits. An unfavorable outcome of these lawsuits could result in the payment of substantial damages in connection with a settlement or judgment and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. See Item 3 "Legal Proceedings." We are subject to extensive regulation, including Federal Reserve guidelines and rules, which may affect our business operations and profitability, required levels of capital and liquidity, including limitations on our ability to pay dividends. We are subject to extensive regulation under federal and state laws, including regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve, FDIC, WDFI and the SEC. Sterling is also subject to the listing standards of the NASDAQ Capital Market. If our regulators determine that we have failed to comply with our regulatory requirements, including minimum capital levels, we may need to raise additional capital, which could result in the dilution of our existing shareholders, or reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend. We could become subject to regulatory enforcement actions, which could result in material limitations on our business operations. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes stress testing and corporate governance requirements on banking entities with $10 billion or greater of assets, which we will have to comply with in future periods, if the Merger is not completed. As of December 31, 2013, Sterling had assets in excess of $10 billion. Sterling therefore will be subject to the Durbin Amendment beginning July 1, 2014. If the Merger is not completed, without the anticipated volume increase in fees, the overall level of our earnings could decline by approximately $6 million annually due to the cap on debit card transaction fees. 20Table of ContentsThe level of our liquidity and our ability to repay indebtedness, pay dividends and repurchase shares depends upon the results of operations and financial condition of Sterling Bank. Sterling is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries, and receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends paid by Sterling Bank. There are legal limitations on the extent to which Sterling Bank may extend credit, pay dividends or otherwise supply funds to, or engage in transactions with, Sterling. The inability to receive dividends from Sterling Bank would reduce liquidity available to Sterling, which could adversely affect Sterling's financial condition or Sterling's ability to pay dividends on its common stock. As a result of our 2010 recapitalization, a limited number of shareholders are substantial holders of our stock. As of January 31, 2014, certain Thomas H. Lee funds (collectively, "THL") and Warburg Pincus Private Equity X, L.P. ("Warburg Pincus") each beneficially owned approximately 23% of our outstanding common stock. Each has a representative on our Board of Directors. Accordingly, THL and Warburg Pincus have substantial influence over the election of directors to our board and over corporate policy, including decisions to enter into mergers or other extraordinary transactions. In pursuing their economic interests, THL and Warburg Pincus may make decisions with respect to fundamental corporate transactions that may not be aligned with the interests of other shareholders. We may suffer substantial losses due to our agreements to indemnify certain investors against a broad range of potential claims. We have agreed to indemnify THL and Warburg Pincus, along with the other private placement investors in the 2010 recapitalization, for a broad range of claims, including any losses arising out of or resulting from any legal, administrative or other proceedings arising in connection with the recapitalization transactions. While these indemnities are capped at the aggregate amount of capital raised of $730 million, if all or some claims were successfully brought against Sterling, it could potentially result in significant losses. We rely on certain key personnel, whose loss could materially adversely affect us. Certain of our employees and executives are key contributors to our financial success, including, but not limited to, the generation and identification of lending and deposit customer relationships, and the management of our company. Our ability to retain these individuals is a large factor in our ability to be successful, and any failure to do so could have a materially adverse effect on our business. We could be materially and adversely affected if we or any of our officers or directors fail to comply with bank and other laws and regulations. Sterling and Sterling Bank are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and face risks associated with investigations and proceedings by regulatory agencies, including those that we may believe to be immaterial. Like any corporation, we are also subject to risk arising from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with our policies. Any interventions by authorities may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, suspension or expulsion of our officers or directors from the banking industry or other relief. In addition to the monetary consequences, these measures could, for example, impact our ability to engage in, or impose limitations on, certain of our businesses. The number of these investigations and proceedings, as well as the amount of penalties and fines sought, has increased substantially in recent years with regard to many firms in the industry. Significant regulatory action against us or our officers or directors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm. We may have reduced access to wholesale funding sources. As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to core deposits, maturities and sales of loans and investments. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain sufficient collateral or access to funding on acceptable terms. If we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources, and our revenues do not increase in proportion with our costs, our profitability will be adversely impacted. A decline in the value of our Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") common stock may occur, resulting in an other-than-temporary impairment ("OTTI") charge which would cause our earnings and shareholders' equity to decrease. We own common stock of the FHLB in order to qualify for membership in the FHLB system, which enables us to borrow funds under the FHLB advance program. The carrying value of our FHLB common stock was $95.3 million as of December 31, 2013, the substantial majority of which was with the FHLB of Seattle. FHLB stock does not have a readily determinable fair value and the equity ownership rights are more limited than would be the case for ownership rights in a public company. FHLB stock is viewed as a long term investment and is carried at cost. Our business relies heavily on technology and our ability to manage the operational risks associated with technology. We depend on internal and outsourced technology to support all aspects of our business operations. Interruption or failure of these systems creates a risk of business loss as a result of adverse customer experiences, damage claims and civil fines. Risk management programs are expensive to maintain and will not protect us from all risks associated with maintaining the security 21Table of Contentsof customer information, proprietary data, external and internal intrusions, disaster recovery and failures in the controls used by vendors. Our computer systems could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Because we conduct part of our business over the Internet and outsource several critical functions to third parties, operations will depend on our ability, as well as the ability of third-party service providers, to protect computer systems and network infrastructure against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, physical break-ins or similar catastrophic events. Any damage or failure that causes interruptions in operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a significant barrier to online financial transactions is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our Internet banking system relies on encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms our third-party service providers use to protect customer transaction data. If any such compromise of security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend, and will continue to depend, to a significant extent, on a number of relationships with third-party service providers. Specifically, we receive core systems processing, residential mortgage servicing, essential web hosting and other Internet systems, and deposit and other transaction processing services from third-party service providers. If these third-party service providers experience difficulties or terminate their services, and we are unable to replace them with other service providers, our operations could be interrupted. If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our internal control systems could fail to detect certain events. We are subject to certain operational risks, including but not limited to data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. We maintain a system of internal controls to mitigate against such occurrences and maintain insurance coverage for such risks, but should such an event occur that is not prevented or detected by our internal controls, uninsured or in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We could be held responsible for environmental liabilities of properties we acquire. We may acquire real property for various reasons, including, for example, as a result of foreclosing on a defaulted mortgage loan to recover our investment, or in connection with acquiring the assets and operations of other banks. We may be subject to environmental liabilities related to the real property as a result of hazardous substances or wastes, contaminants, pollutants or sources thereof that may be discovered on such properties during our ownership or after a sale to a third party. The amount of environmental liability could exceed the value of the real property because we may be fully liable for the entire cost of any removal and clean-up on an acquired property, the cost of removal and clean-up may exceed the value of the property, and we may be unable to recover costs from any third party. In addition, we may find it difficult or impossible to sell the property prior to or following any environmental remediation. The financial services industry in general is highly competitive. Our industry is highly competitive in regard to the pricing and features of existing products and services, growth opportunities from the acquisition of other companies in whole or in part, and the building of new customer relationships. A number of our competitors are significantly larger than we are and may have certain advantages from a greater access to capital and other resources, as well as larger lending limits and branch systems, and a wider array of banking services. Our growth and opportunities for growth are greatly affected by this competitive environment. 22Table of ContentsItem 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNot applicable.