Item 1A. Risk FactorsSet forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of, and market for, shares of Sterling common stock could decline due to any of these risks. Our allowance for loan losses, or the amount of capital we hold, may be insufficient. We maintain an allowance for credit losses, with the level of the allowance reflecting estimates as to future losses. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires management to make significant estimates and judgments regarding current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. If our estimates prove to be incorrect, our allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover our actual loan losses. Bank regulatory agencies periodically review the adequacy of our allowance for credit losses as part of their examination process, and may require an increase therein. We are required to maintain a certain level of capital. The level of required capital to hold may change through new regulations such as Basel III. Also, the level of capital we hold changes, based on our financial performance, and balance sheet size and composition. We may be required to raise capital in the future, and it may be at a time that the capital is not available to us or not available at favorable terms. Credit risk concentrations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. A large portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, which is primarily located in the Pacific Northwest and California. In addition, a significant portion of our multifamily loans originated since 2011 are secured by properties located in the greater Los Angeles and San Francisco markets. Deterioration in the economic conditions or a prolonged delay in economic recovery in our primary market areas could result in the following consequences, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business: collateral for loans, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power and the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans; loan delinquencies may increase; problem assets and foreclosures may increase; demand for our products and services may decrease; and access to low cost or noninterest bearing deposits may decrease. Approximately 45% of our loan portfolio was comprised of commercial real estate loans as of December 31, 2012. Included in commercial real estate loans are investor real estate loans, which may have a higher degree of risk than some other loan types, as they typically are dependent on the cash flows generated from the underlying property. Commercial and consumer delinquency levels and real estate market values could affect our level of net charge-offs and provision for credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and prospects. Acts of nature, including earthquakes, floods and fires, which may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures these loans, may also have a negative impact on our financial condition. In addition, we may face risks associated with our real estate lending under various federal, state and local environmental laws that impose certain requirements on the owner or operator of a property. Interest rate risk is inherently present in our business. As a financial institution, the substantial majority of our assets and liabilities are subject to interest rate risk, which affects both the life and value of our interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities, such as loans, investments and MBS, mortgage servicing rights, deposits and borrowings. The level of sensitivity for these interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities to changes in interest rates is measured by duration, with duration mismatches combined with changes from both shifts and twists in the yield curve affecting both our future net interest income and the current economic value of Sterling’s equity. Exposure to interest rate risk may have an adverse effect on our profitability, financial condition and liquidity, including a decline in our net interest margin, fair value charges on certain assets, such as mortgage servicing rights and requests for additional collateral on certain of our secured borrowings. Increases in interest rates may shorten the life of certain of our liabilities, and we would have to replace these funds with alternative funds at a higher cost to us, or sell assets at potentially depressed values to meet the liquidity requirement. Decreases in interest rates may shorten the life of certain of our assets, and we would be faced with reinvesting the funds at lower rates or retiring certain of our funding liabilities at prices unfavorable to us. 18Table of ContentsGeneral economic conditions and developments affect our operating results and financial condition. Our business is affected by conditions outside our control, including the rate of economic growth in general, the level of unemployment, increases in inflation and the level of interest rates. Economic conditions affect the level of demand for and the profitability of our products and services. A slowdown in the general economic recovery, particularly in the Western United States, could negatively impact our business. The fiscal and monetary policies of the United States government, and its level of indebtedness may have an impact on interest rates and inflation, which may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. Our profitability is greatly dependent upon our earning a positive interest spread between our loan and securities portfolio, and our funding deposits and borrowings. Changes in the level of interest rates, or a prolonged unfavorable interest rate environment, or a decrease in our level of deposits that increases our cost of funds could negatively affect our profitability and financial condition. Our ability to realize the benefit of our deferred tax assets may be materially impaired. As of December 31, 2012, we had a net deferred tax asset of $292.1 million, including $274.0 million of net operating loss and tax credit carry-forwards. Our ability to use our deferred tax assets to offset future taxable income will be limited if we experience an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Code. Due to the complexity of Section 382 and the limited knowledge any public company has about the ownership of its publicly-traded stock, it is difficult to conclude with certainty at any given point in time whether an “ownership change” has occurred. Nonetheless, as a result of the recapitalization, we believe that Sterling is close to the “ownership change” threshold, but we do not believe that we have experienced an “ownership change.” Sterling has not obtained an opinion of counsel or any other interpretive guidance, such as a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), in determining that it has not undergone an “ownership change.” In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative increase in our ownership by “5-percent shareholders” (as defined in the Code) that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. A corporation that experiences an ownership change will generally be subject to an annual limitation on the use of its pre-ownership change deferred tax assets equal to the equity value of the corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate. While we have implemented measures to reduce the likelihood that future transactions in our common stock will result in an ownership change, such an ownership change could occur in the future, which would have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and shareholder value. More specifically, while Sterling has adopted a shareholder rights plan, as well as a protective amendment to its Restated Articles of Incorporation that are intended to discourage or prevent transfers of Sterling shares that would increase a shareholder’s ownership to 5% or more of our Common Stock or that would increase the percentage of our Common Stock owned by a shareholder already deemed to be a “5-percent shareholder,” these restrictions might not deter a shareholder from increasing its ownership interests beyond these limits. Such an increase could adversely affect our ownership change calculations. Our calculations regarding our current cumulative change and the likelihood of a future ownership change are based on current law. Any change in applicable law may result in an ownership change. Likewise, the value attributed to our deferred tax asset is based on the statutory corporate income tax rates in effect as of December 31, 2012. Any future reductions in corporate tax rates may result in a significant decline in the value of our deferred tax asset.We are currently subject to certain pending litigation, and may be subject to litigation in the future. A securities class action lawsuit has been filed against Sterling and certain of Sterling's current and former officers alleging that the defendants violated sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the U.S. Exchange Act and SEC Rule 10b-5 by making false and misleading statements concerning our business and financial results. This lawsuit is premised on allegations that: 1) the defendants failed to adequately disclose the extent of Sterling’s delinquent commercial real estate, construction and land development loans, properly record losses for impaired loans, properly reserve for loan losses, and properly account for goodwill and deferred tax assets, thereby causing Sterling’s stock price to be artificially inflated during the purported class period; or 2) the defendants failed to prevent Sterling from issuing improper financial statements, maintain a sufficient allowance for loan and lease losses, and establish effective credit risk management and oversight mechanisms. It is possible that additional suits will be filed with respect to these same matters that also name Sterling and/or its current and former officers and directors. This lawsuit could divert the attention and resources of our management and cause us to incur significant expenses for legal fees and costs, including those associated with our advancement of fees and costs on behalf of our current and former officers and directors. We cannot predict the outcome of this lawsuit. Since the legal responsibility and financial impact with respect to this lawsuit and claims, if any, cannot currently be ascertained, we have not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to this lawsuit. An unfavorable outcome of this lawsuit could result in the payment of substantial damages in connection with a settlement or judgment and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. See Item 3 “Legal Proceedings.” 19Table of ContentsWe are subject to extensive regulation, including Federal Reserve guidelines and rules, which may affect our business operations, required levels of capital and liquidity, including limitations on our ability to pay dividends. We are subject to extensive regulation under federal and state laws, including regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve, FDIC, WDFI and the SEC. Sterling is also subject to the listing standards of the NASDAQ Capital Market. If our regulators determine that we have failed to comply with our regulatory requirements, including minimum capital levels, we may need to raise additional capital, which could result in the dilution of our existing shareholders, or reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend. We could become subject to regulatory enforcement actions, which could result in material limitations on our business operations.The Dodd-Frank Act requires the federal banking agencies to establish stricter risk-based capital requirements and leverage limits for banks and bank holding companies, including the submission of annual capital plans for regulatory approval for banks larger than $50 billion in assets. In addition, Basel III may lead to significantly higher capital requirements and more restrictive leverage and liquidity ratios. The Federal Reserve has not released final rules to implement the Basel III requirements, and it is uncertain at this time whether the rules, when released, will apply Basel III's requirements to Sterling or Sterling Bank. The level of our liquidity and our ability to repay indebtedness, pay dividends and repurchase shares depends upon the results of operations and financial condition of Sterling Bank. Sterling is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries, and receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends paid by Sterling Bank. There are legal limitations on the extent to which Sterling Bank may extend credit, pay dividends or otherwise supply funds to, or engage in transactions with, Sterling. The inability to receive dividends from Sterling Bank would reduce liquidity available to Sterling, which could adversely affect Sterling's financial condition or Sterling's ability to pay dividends on its common stock. Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends Sterling Bank can pay to Sterling without regulatory approval. Sterling Bank may not pay cash dividends if those payments could reduce the amount of its capital below that necessary to meet the “adequately capitalized” level in accordance with regulatory capital requirements. It is also possible that, depending upon the financial condition of Sterling Bank and other factors, regulatory authorities could assert that payment of dividends or other payments, including payments to Sterling, is an unsafe or unsound practice. Under Washington banking law, Sterling Bank may not pay a dividend greater than its retained earnings without WDFI approval. As of December 31, 2012, Sterling Bank had an accumulated deficit of $662.9 million, and therefore, requires WDFI approval prior to paying a dividend.The financial services industry is undergoing major changes, and we cannot anticipate the impact of future laws and regulations on our business. Regulation of the financial services industry is undergoing major changes. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly revises and expands the rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority of federal bank regulators. Although the statute will initially have a greater impact on larger institutions than regional bank holding companies such as Sterling, many of its provisions will apply to us at the outset. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, limits the amount of debit card interchange fees that can be charged for banks over $10 billion of assets in size and Sterling’s assets are close to this level. The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes new stress testing and corporate governance requirements on banking entities with $10 billion of assets. If our assets rose above $10 billion, we would be subject to these requirements, which may reduce our profitability. Some of these changes are effective immediately, though most will be phased in gradually. In addition, the statute in many instances calls for future rulemaking to implement its provisions, so the precise contours of the law and its effects on us cannot yet be fully understood. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and the subsequent exercise by regulators of their revised and expanded powers thereunder could materially impact the profitability of our business, the value of assets we hold or the collateral available for our loans, require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses and expose us to additional costs, taxes, liabilities, enforcement actions and reputational risk. Legislators and regulators are also considering a wide range of proposals beyond the Dodd-Frank Act that, if enacted, could result in major changes to the way banking operations are regulated. Acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that are contemplated. Our growth strategy includes an intent to acquire other banks. During the fourth quarter of 2012, we announced definitive agreements to acquire AHH and its subsidiary Borrego Springs Bank, N.A., and the Puget Sound operations of Boston Private. These transactions and any future acquisitions and related transition and integration activities may disrupt our ongoing business and divert management’s attention. In addition, an acquisition may not further our corporate strategy as we expected, we may pay more than the acquired banks or assets are ultimately worth or we may not integrate an acquired bank or assets as successfully as we expected, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be adversely affected by liabilities (disclosed or undisclosed) or pre-existing contractual relationships that we assume and may also fail to 20Table of Contentsanticipate or accurately estimate litigation or other exposure, unfavorable accounting consequences, increases in taxes due or a loss of anticipated tax benefits. Other potential adverse consequences include higher than anticipated costs associated with the acquired bank or assets or integration activities. The use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit our use of cash for other potential activities, such as dividends. The use of equity securities to pay for acquisitions could significantly dilute existing shareholders. If we use debt to finance acquisitions, we may significantly increase our expenses, leverage and debt service requirements. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a large acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions.The liquidity of our common stock may be impeded by transfer restrictions. Immediately following our recapitalization in August 2010, approximately 98% of our common stock was held by investors subject to certain transfer restrictions. These restrictions are designed to prevent (a) any person from acquiring ownership, for relevant tax purposes, of 5% or more of our shares and (b) the disposition of shares by any person that owns 5% or more of our shares, subject to certain exceptions. We have also amended our Restated Articles of Incorporation to impose these transfer restrictions on all holders of our common stock. These restrictions may adversely affect the ability of certain shareholders to resell our common stock by rendering any transactions in violation of this prohibition void. In addition, Sterling has adopted a shareholder rights plan (the “Rights Plan”), which is described in our Form 8-K filed on April 15, 2010. In December of 2010, we amended the Rights Plan to extend the expiration of the plan until August 26, 2013. The purpose of the Rights Plan is to minimize the likelihood of an “ownership change,” as defined in Section 382 of the Code, and thus to protect our ability to use our net operating loss carry-forward and certain built-in losses to offset future income. The Rights Plan provides an economic disincentive for any one person or group to become a Threshold Holder (as defined therein, generally an owner of 5% or more of our stock) and for any existing Threshold Holder to acquire more than a specified amount of additional shares, and so may adversely affect one’s ability to resell our common stock and negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. These restrictions may limit the ability of shareholders to resell Sterling shares. These transfer restrictions and our Rights Plan may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of Sterling and make it more difficult for a potential acquirer to consummate an acquisition of Sterling. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for our securities and may limit a shareholder’s ability to dispose of our securities by reducing the class of potential acquirers for such securities. As a result of our 2010 recapitalization, a limited number of shareholders are substantial holders of our stock. As of January 31, 2013, certain Thomas H. Lee funds (collectively, “THL”) and Warburg Pincus Private Equity X, L.P. (“Warburg Pincus”) each beneficially owned approximately 23% of our outstanding common stock. Each has a representative on our Board of Directors. Accordingly, THL and Warburg Pincus have substantial influence over the election of directors to our board and over corporate policy, including decisions to enter into mergers or other extraordinary transactions. In pursuing its economic interests, THL and Warburg Pincus may make decisions with respect to fundamental corporate transactions that may not be aligned with the interests of other shareholders. As a result of our 2010 recapitalization, a number of private placement investors, in addition to THL and Warburg Pincus, acquired, and may continue to hold, shares of our common stock that, for each investor, may approach 5% of our outstanding common stock. The large portion of our shares that are held by a relatively small number of shareholders could result in a material impact on the trading volume and price per share of our stock, if any of these shareholders decide to sell a significant portion of their holdings. We may suffer substantial losses due to our agreements to indemnify certain investors against a broad range of potential claims. We have agreed to indemnify THL and Warburg Pincus, along with the other private placement investors in the 2010 recapitalization, for a broad range of claims, including any losses arising out of or resulting from any legal, administrative or other proceedings arising in connection with the recapitalization transactions. While these indemnities are capped at the aggregate amount of capital raised of $730 million, if all or some claims were successfully brought against Sterling, it could potentially result in significant losses. We rely on certain key personnel, whose loss could materially adversely affect us. Certain of our employees and executives are key contributors to our financial success, including, but not limited to, the generation and identification of lending and deposit customer relationships, and the management of our company. Our ability to retain these individuals is a large factor in our ability to be successful, and any failure to do so could have a materially adverse effect on our business. 21Table of ContentsWe could be materially and adversely affected if we or any of our officers or directors fail to comply with bank and other laws and regulations. Sterling and Sterling Bank are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and face risks associated with investigations and proceedings by regulatory agencies, including those that we may believe to be immaterial. Like any corporation, we are also subject to risk arising from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with our policies. Any interventions by authorities may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, suspension or expulsion of our officers or directors from the banking industry or other relief. In addition to the monetary consequences, these measures could, for example, impact our ability to engage in, or impose limitations on, certain of our businesses. The number of these investigations and proceedings, as well as the amount of penalties and fines sought, has increased substantially in recent years with regard to many firms in the industry. Significant regulatory action against us or our officers or directors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm. We may have reduced access to wholesale funding sources. As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments, maturities and sales of loans and investments. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain sufficient collateral or access to funding on acceptable terms. If we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources, and our revenues do not increase in proportion with our costs, our profitability will be impacted. A decline in the value of our Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) common stock may occur, resulting in an other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) charge which would cause our earnings and shareholders’ equity to decrease. We own common stock of the FHLB in order to qualify for membership in the FHLB system, which enables us to borrow funds under the FHLB advance program. The carrying value of our FHLB common stock was $97.5 million as of December 31, 2012, the substantial majority of which was with the FHLB of Seattle. The FHLB of Seattle has experienced losses from credit-related charges associated with projected losses on its investments in nonagency MBS, and is currently unable to pay dividends. FHLB stock does not have a readily determinable fair value and the equity ownership rights are more limited than would be the case for ownership rights in a public company. FHLB stock is viewed as a long term investment and is carried at cost. Our business relies heavily on technology and our ability to manage the operational risks associated with technology. We depend on internal and outsourced technology to support all aspects of our business operations. Interruption or failure of these systems creates a risk of business loss as a result of adverse customer experiences, damage claims and civil fines. Risk management programs are expensive to maintain and will not protect us from all risks associated with maintaining the security of customer information, proprietary data, external and internal intrusions, disaster recovery and failures in the controls used by vendors. Our computer systems could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Because we conduct part of our business over the Internet and outsource several critical functions to third parties, operations will depend on our ability, as well as the ability of third-party service providers, to protect computer systems and network infrastructure against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, physical break-ins or similar catastrophic events. Any damage or failure that causes interruptions in operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a significant barrier to online financial transactions is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our Internet banking system relies on encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms our third-party service providers use to protect customer transaction data. If any such compromise of security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend, and will continue to depend, to a significant extent, on a number of relationships with third-party service providers. Specifically, we receive core systems processing, residential mortgage servicing, essential web hosting and other Internet systems, and deposit and other transaction processing services from third-party service providers. If these third-party service providers experience difficulties or terminate their services, and we are unable to replace them with other service providers, our operations could be interrupted. If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our internal control systems could fail to detect certain events. We are subject to certain operational risks, including but not limited to data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. We maintain a system of internal controls to mitigate against such occurrences and maintain insurance coverage for such risks, but should such an event occur that is not prevented or detected by our internal controls, uninsured or in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 22Table of ContentsWe could be held responsible for environmental liabilities of properties we acquire. We may acquire real property for various reasons, including, for example, as a result of foreclosing on a defaulted mortgage loan to recover our investment, or in connection with acquiring the assets and operations of other banks. We may be subject to environmental liabilities related to the real property as a result of hazardous substances or wastes, contaminants, pollutants or sources thereof that may be discovered on such properties during our ownership or after a sale to a third party. The amount of environmental liability could exceed the value of the real property because we may be fully liable for the entire cost of any removal and clean-up on an acquired property, the cost of removal and clean-up may exceed the value of the property, and we may be unable to recover costs from any third party. In addition, we may find it difficult or impossible to sell the property prior to or following any environmental remediation. The financial services industry in general is highly competitive. Our industry is highly competitive in regard to the pricing and features of existing products and services, growth opportunities from the acquisition of other companies in whole or in part, and the building of new customer relationships. A number of our competitors are significantly larger than we are and may have certain advantages from a greater access to capital and other resources, as well as larger lending limits and branch systems, and a wider array of banking services. Our growth and opportunities for growth are greatly affected by this competitive environment. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNot applicable.