Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Certain Factors That May Affect Future Results Economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company. The Company’s global operations and performance vary significantly in relation to worldwide economic conditions. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses may continue to postpone spending in response to tighter credit markets, unemployment, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on demand for the Company’s products and services. A general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment in government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce their IT budgets or be unable to fund software, hardware systems or services purchases, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. These and other economic factors have in the past, and could in the future, materially adversely affect demand for the Company’s products and services and the Company’s financial condition and operating results. All of these factors could also increase the volatility of the Company’s stock price. Our results have been harmed by, and our future results could be harmed by, economic, political, geographic, regulatory and other specific risks associated with our international operations. The Company believes that any future growth of the Company will be dependent, in part, upon the Company’s ability to maintain and increase revenues in its existing and emerging international markets, including Asia and Latin America. During the fiscal years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, 30.2%, 31.5% and 32.6%, respectively, of total Company revenues were generated by the Company’s international operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain or expand its international sales. In addition, if the revenues that the Company generates from foreign activities are inadequate to offset the expense of maintaining foreign offices and activities, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The international reach of the Company’s businesses could also subject the Company and its results of operations to unexpected, uncontrollable and rapidly changing economic and political conditions. Specifically, our international sales and operations are subject to inherent risks, including: • Differing intellectual property and labor laws; • Lack of experience in a particular geographic market; • Differing intellectual property and labor laws; • Lack of experience in a particular geographic market; • Compliance with a wide variety of complex foreign laws, treaties and regulatory requirements • Activities by our employees, contractors or agents that are prohibited by United States laws and regulations such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and by local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials, in spite of the Company’s policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws; • Tariffs and other barriers, including import and export requirements and taxes on subsidiary operations; • Fluctuating exchange rates, currency devaluation and currency controls; • Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales and support operations; • Longer accounts receivable payment cycles; • Potentially adverse tax consequences, including repatriation of earnings; • Development and support of localized and translated products; • Lack of acceptance of localized products or the Company in foreign countries; • Shortage of skilled personnel required for local operations; and • Perceived health risks, natural disasters, hostilities, political instability or terrorist risks which impact a geographic region and business operations therein. 24 Any one of these factors or a combination of them could materially and adversely affect the Company’s future international sales and, consequently, the Company’s business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. A portion of the Company’s revenues from sales to foreign entities, including foreign governments, has been in the form of foreign currencies. While the Company does enter into hedges and other similar foreign currency contracts from time to time, there can be no assurance that such activities will effectively minimize the impact that fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies may have on the Company. Specifically, during 2010, foreign currency transaction losses totaled $2.0 million. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies have in the past and could continue to adversely impact the profitability of the Company’s foreign operations. We have a significant amount of debt outstanding under our convertible senior notes and our 2007 credit facility which could have various adverse effects on our business and financial conditions. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $230 million of outstanding principal amount under our convertible senior notes. In addition, in February 2008, we borrowed $160 million under our 2007 credit facility, of which $47.5 million was outstanding at December 31, 2010, to finance the acquisition of NSB and to pay certain fees and expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under our outstanding liabilities. This amount of debt could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: • Making it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations under our outstanding debt; • Resulting in an event of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our 2007 credit facility, which event of default could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable and, in the case of an event of default under our 2007 credit facility, could permit the lenders to foreclose on our assets securing that debt. For example, we failed to meet the total leverage ratio covenant in our credit agreement during the second quarter of 2008 and were required to seek and obtain a waiver by paying a penalty to prevent an event of default. Although we amended the financial covenants in September 2009 in a manner favorable to us, if we are unable to satisfy these amended financial covenants in the future, amendments or waivers to the credit agreement may not be available on reasonable terms or at all, which may result in an event of default and acceleration of the debt, which we may be unable to pay; • Reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; • Subjecting us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases on any indebtedness with variable interest rates; • Limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy; and • Placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged because of the above-listed factors. Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under our outstanding liabilities. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may negatively impact the financial results of the Company. The results of operations or financial condition of the Company may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company operates throughout the world through international sales subsidiaries, networks of exclusive third party distributors, and non-exclusive value added resellers (VARs). As a result, certain sales and related expenses are denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar. The foreign currencies for which we currently have the most significant exposure are the Australian dollar, Canadian dollar, euro, British pound, Mexican peso, and Malaysian ringgit. The Company’s results of operations may fluctuate due to exchange rate fluctuation between the United States dollar and other currencies because our financial results are reported on a consolidated basis in United States dollars. The Company has implemented a foreign exchange hedging program using derivative financial instruments (e.g. forward contracts and options contracts) and operational strategies (e.g. natural hedges, netting, leading and lagging of accounts payables and account receivables) to hedge certain foreign exposures. However, we can provide no assurance that any of these strategies will be effective nor do we rely on our hedging program to eliminate all foreign currency exchange rate risk. 25 The failure of our Epicor ERP product to compete successfully could materially impact our ability to grow our business. Epicor ERP, our next generation ERP software product, became generally available during the fourth quarter of 2008. If we are not able to continue to successfully market and license Epicor ERP in the future, it may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we operate in a highly competitive segment of the software industry and if our competitors develop more successful products or services, our revenue and profitability will most likely decline. If the emerging and current technologies and platforms of Microsoft Corporation and others upon which the Company builds its products do not gain or retain broad market acceptance, or if we fail to develop and introduce in a timely manner new products and services compatible with such emerging technologies, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. The Company’s software products are built and depend upon several underlying and evolving relational database management system (RDBMS) platforms such as systems offered by Microsoft Corporation, Progress Software Corporation and Rocket Software, Inc. The market for the Company’s software products is subject to ongoing rapid technological developments, quickly evolving industry standards and rapid changes in customer requirements, and there may be existing or future technologies and platforms that achieve industry standard status, which are not compatible with our products. Additionally, because the Company’s products rely significantly upon popular existing user interfaces to third party business applications, the Company must forecast which user interfaces will be or will remain popular in the future. For example, the Company believes the Internet has and continues to transform the way businesses operate and the software requirements of customers, who are increasingly shifting towards Web-based applications and away from server-based applications. Specifically, the Company believes that customers desire business software applications that enable a customer to engage in commerce or service over the Internet. The Company is proceeding on its previously announced determination to continue with development of several of its primary product lines upon the Microsoft .NET technology. If the Company cannot continue to develop such .NET-compatible products in time to effectively bring them to market, or if .NET does not continue to be a widely accepted industry standard, or if customers adopt competitors’ products when they shift to Web-based applications, the ability of the Company’s products to interface with popular third party applications will be negatively impacted and the Company’s competitive position, operating results and revenues could be adversely affected. New software technologies could cause us to alter our business model resulting in adverse effects on our operating results. Development of new technologies may cause the Company to change how it licenses or prices its products, which may adversely impact the Company’s revenues and operating results. Developing licensing models include SaaS and, hosting and subscription-based licensing, in which the licensee essentially rents software for a defined period of time, as opposed to the current perpetual license model. The Company currently offers a hosted model as well as a SaaS model to customers or its retail products, and to a limited extent, its enterprise customers. The Company’s future business, operating results and financial condition will depend on its ability to effectively train its sales force to sell an integrated comprehensive set of business software products and recognize and implement emerging industry standards and models, including new pricing and licensing models. The Company’s competitive position and revenues could be adversely affected if the Company fails to respond to emerging industry standards, including licensing models and end-user requirements, A significant portion of our future revenue is dependent upon our existing installed base of customers continuing to license additional products, as well as purchasing consulting services and renewing their annual maintenance and support contracts. The Company’s revenues and results of operations could be materially impacted if our existing customers fail to renew their maintenance and support agreements or fail to purchase new user licenses or product enhancements or additional services from the Company at historical levels. Historically, approximately 50% to 60% of the Company’s license revenues, 90% of the Company’s maintenance revenues and a substantial portion of the Company’s consulting revenues are generated from the Company’s installed base of customers. Maintenance and support agreements with these customers 26 are traditionally renewed on an annual basis at the customer’s discretion, and there is normally no requirement that a customer renew or that a customer pay new license or service fees to the Company following the initial purchase. Some customers have not renewed their maintenance and support agreements as a result of the recent economic downturn, If the Company’s existing customers do not renew their maintenance and support agreements or fail to purchase new user licenses or product enhancements or additional services at historical levels, our revenues and results of operations could be materially impacted. Elimination of or substantial reduction in the Investissement Quebec Credit Program may negatively impact the financial results of the Company. The province of Quebec, Canada has established a program to attract and retain investment in the information technology sector in Quebec. A corporation with employees performing eligible activities can apply for and receive a refund of up to 30% of eligible salaries (Salary Rebate). The program is administered by Investissement Quebec (IQ). IQ reviews applications and issues annual eligibility certificates to qualifying companies. IQ also issues annual eligibility certificates confirming named qualifying employees. The payment of the Salary Rebate is made by the Minister of Revenue of Quebec and is subject to audit at a later date. The Salary Rebate is taxable in the year of receipt. During 2010, the Company applied for Salary Rebates for 2008 and 2009, the first eligible periods under the program. During 2010, the Company received certification and cash rebates totalling $2.7 million related to 2008 and has recorded these amounts as a $1.6 million reduction in cost of consulting revenues, a $1.0 million reduction in software development expenses and a $0.1 million reduction in cost of maintenance revenues. The Company has also received certification for $3.2 million related to 2009, expects to receive the related cash rebate during 2011 and has recorded this amount as a $2.1 million reduction in cost of consulting revenues and a $1.1 million reduction in software development expenses. The classification of the rebate to these financial statement line items is consistent with the classification of the qualifying salaries that were eligible for the credit. The program is currently scheduled to extend through 2015 and the Company plans to continue to apply for the credits for each eligible year. However, there is no guarantee that the program will continue and were the Quebec Government to materially alter or eliminate the Program or were subsequent audits by the Minister of Revenue found to materially reduce or eliminate the rebate for any specific year or period, the Company’s financial results at quarter or fiscal year end could be materially and negatively impacted. We have recorded a large amount of goodwill and other acquired intangible assets that we will be required to write down and record an expense if they become impaired. In connection with our acquisitions, as of December 31, 2010, we have goodwill of $377.9 million and $65.2 million of amortizing acquired intangible assets on our balance sheet. Our goodwill is not amortized and we are required to test the goodwill for impairment at least yearly and test intangibles and goodwill any time there is an indication an impairment may have occurred. For example, a significant decline in stock price, like the one that occurred for our common stock following December 31, 2008, may require us to test our goodwill for impairment. If we determine that the carrying value of the goodwill or other acquired intangible assets is in excess of its fair value, we will be required to write down a portion or all of the goodwill or other acquired intangible assets, which would adversely impact our results of operations and our ability to satisfy financial covenants in our credit agreement. Our increasingly complex software products may contain errors or defects, which could result in the rejection of our products and damage to our reputation as well as cause lost revenue, delays in collecting accounts receivable, diverted development resources and increased service costs and warranty claims. The Company’s software products are made up of increasingly complex computer programs. Software products are complex and products offered by the Company often contain undetected errors or failures (commonly referred to as bugs) when first introduced to the market or as new updates or upgrades of such products are released to the market. Despite testing by the Company, and by current and potential customers, prior to general release to the market, the Company’s products may still contain material errors after their initial commercial shipment. Such material errors may result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of the Company’s products, damage to the Company’s reputation and increased service and warranty costs. Ultimately, such errors could lead to a decline in the Company’s revenues. The Company has from time to time been notified by some of its customers of errors in its various software products. Although it has not occurred to date, if the Company is unable to correct such errors in a timely manner it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and its cash flows. In 27 addition, if material technical problems with the current release of the various database and technology platforms, on which the Company’s products operate, including offerings by Progress Software Corporation, Rocket Software, Inc. and Microsoft Corporation (i.e., SQL and .NET), occur, such difficulties could also negatively impact sales of these products, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The market for new development tools, application products and consulting and education services continues to emerge, which could negatively affect our client/server and Web-based products, and, if the Company fails to respond effectively to evolving requirements of these markets, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. The Company’s development tools, application products and consulting and education services generally help organizations build, customize or deploy solutions that operate in both client/server-computing and Web-based environments. The Company believes that the environment for application software is continuing to change from client/server to a Web-based environment to facilitate commerce on the Internet. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to effectively respond to the evolving transition to Web-based markets. Deterioration in the client/server market or our failure to respond effectively to the transition to and needs of Web-based markets could harm our ability to compete or grow our business which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The market for our software products and services is highly competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors our business could be negatively impacted. The business information systems industry in general and the manufacturing, distribution, retail, customer relationship management (CRM) and financial computer software industries specifically, in which the Company competes are very competitive and subject to rapid technological change, evolving standards, frequent product enhancements and introductions and changing customer requirements. Many of the Company’s current and potential competitors have (i) longer operating histories, (ii) significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, (iii) greater name recognition, (iv) larger technical staffs and/or (v) a larger installed customer base than the Company. In addition, as the Company continues to sell to larger companies outside the mid-market, it faces more competition from large well-established competitors such as SAP AG and Oracle Corporation. A number of companies offer products that are similar to the Company’s products and target the same markets. In addition, any of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements (such as commerce on the Internet and Web-based application software), and to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than the Company. Furthermore, because there are relatively low barriers to entry in the software industry, the Company expects additional competition from other established and emerging companies. Such competitors may develop products and services that compete with those offered by the Company or may acquire companies, businesses and product lines that compete with the Company. It also is possible that competitors may create alliances and rapidly acquire significant market share, including in new and emerging markets. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company’s current or potential competitors will not develop or acquire products or services comparable or superior to those that the Company develops, combine or merge to form significant competitors or adapt more quickly than the Company to new technologies, evolving industry trends and changing customer requirements. Competition could cause price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share for the Company’s products and services, any of which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that the competitive pressures that the Company may face will not materially adversely affect its business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. If we were to lose and not be able to replace the services of the members of our senior management team and other key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy. Our future success depends in a large part upon the continued service of key personnel, including members of our senior management team and highly skilled employees in technical, marketing, sales and staff positions. All of our key employees, including our executive officers, are at-will employees. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to attract and retain key personnel, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results, cash flows and condition. 28 Our software products incorporate and rely upon third party software products for certain key functionality and our revenues, as well as our ability to develop and introduce new products, could be adversely affected by our inability to control or replace these third party products and operations. The Company’s products incorporate and rely upon software products developed by several other third party entities such as Microsoft Corporation, Progress Software Corporation, and Rocket Software, Inc. Specifically, the Company’s software products are built and depend upon several underlying and evolving RDBMS platforms including Microsoft SQL Server, Progress OpenEdge™ and Rocket® U2™, and also are integrated with several other third party provider products for the purpose of providing or enhancing necessary functionality. In the event that these third party products were to become unavailable to the Company or to our customers, either directly from the third party manufacturers or through other resellers of such products, the Company may not be able to readily replace these products with substitute products. The Company cannot provide assurance that these third parties will: • Remain in business; • Continue to support the Company’s product lines; • Maintain viable product lines; • Make their product lines available to the Company on commercially acceptable terms; and • Not make their products available to the Company’s competitors on more favorable terms. Any interruption in the short term could have a significant detrimental effect on the Company’s ability to continue to market and sell those of its products relying on these specific third party products and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We may pursue strategic acquisitions, investments and relationships and may not be able to successfully manage our operations if we fail to successfully integrate such acquired businesses and technologies, which could adversely affect our operating results. As part of its business strategy, the Company may continue to expand its product offerings to include application software products and services that are complementary to its existing software applications, particularly in the areas of electronic commerce or commerce over the Internet, or may gain access to established customer bases into which the Company can sell its current products. The Company’s acquisition of Spectrum in 2010 is typical of this ongoing strategy. However, in connection with acquisitions, investments in other businesses that offer complementary products, joint development agreements or technology licensing agreements, we commonly encounter the following risks: • Difficulty in effectively integrating any acquired technologies or software products into our current products and technologies; • Difficulty in predicting and responding to issues related to product transition such as development, distribution and customer support; • The possible adverse impact of such acquisitions on existing relationships with third party partners and suppliers of technologies and services; • The possibility that customers of the acquired company might not accept new ownership and may transition to different technologies or attempt to renegotiate contract terms or relationships, including maintenance or support agreements; • The possibility that the due diligence process in any such acquisition may not completely identify material issues associated with product quality, product architecture, product development, intellectual property, key personnel or legal and financial contingencies; • Difficulty in integrating acquired operations, including incorporating internal control structures, due to geographical distance, and language and cultural differences; and • Difficulty in retaining employees of the acquired company. A failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses or technology for any of these reasons could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. 29 We rely, in part, on third parties to sell our products. Disruptions to these channels would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. The Company distributes products through a direct sales force as well as through an indirect distribution channel, which includes VARs and other third party distributors, consisting primarily of professional firms. The Company’s results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if the Company’s distributors cease distributing or recommending the Company’s products or emphasize competing products. The success of the Company’s distributors depends in part upon their ability to attract and retain qualified sales and consulting personnel. Additionally, the Company’s distributors may generally terminate their agreements with the Company upon as little as 30 days’ notice and almost all partners may effectively terminate their agreements at any time by ceasing to promote or sell our products. The Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected if our distributors are unable to retain qualified personnel or if several were to cease doing business or terminate their agreements and the Company is unable to replace them in a timely fashion. Further, there can be no assurance that having both a direct sales force and a third party distribution channel for the Company’s products will not lead to conflicts between those two sales forces that could adversely impact the Company’s ability to close sales transactions or could have a negative impact upon average selling prices, any of which may negatively impact the Company’s operating revenues and results of operations. Finally, many distributors operate on narrow operating margins and may be negatively impacted by weak economic conditions, including by the loss of personnel to promote the Company’s products and services or inability to remain in business. The Company’s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected if the financial condition of these distributors weakens. If third parties infringe upon our intellectual property, we may expend significant resources enforcing our rights or suffer competitive injury, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we may be subject to claims that we infringe upon the intellectual property of others. The Company considers its proprietary software and the related intellectual property rights in such products to be among its most valuable assets. The Company relies on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws (domestically and internationally), employee and third party nondisclosure agreements and other industry standard methods for protecting ownership of its proprietary software. However, the Company cannot provide assurance that, in spite of these precautions, an unauthorized third party will not copy or reverse-engineer certain portions of the Company’s products or obtain and use information that the Company regards as proprietary. From time to time, the Company has in the past taken legal action against third parties whom the Company believed were infringing upon the Company’s intellectual property rights. However, there is no assurance that the mechanisms that the Company uses to protect its intellectual property will be adequate. Moreover, the Company from time to time receives claims from third parties that the Company’s software products infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. The Company expects that as the number of software products in the United States and worldwide increases and the functionality of these products further overlaps, the number of these types of claims will increase. This risk is potentially heightened in such diverse international markets as Eastern Europe, Asia and the Middle East where intellectual property laws are often less rigorous than in the United States. Although it has not yet occurred to date, any such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and require the Company to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements or result in an injunction against the Company. The terms of such royalty or license arrangements, if required, may not be favorable to the Company. In addition, in certain cases, the Company provides the source code for some of its application software under licenses to its customers to enable them to customize the software to meet their particular requirements and to VARs and other distributors or other third party developers to translate or localize the products for resale in foreign countries. Although the source code licenses contain confidentiality and nondisclosure provisions, the Company cannot be certain that such customers, distributors or third-party developers will take or have taken adequate precautions to protect the Company’s source code or other confidential information. Moreover, regardless of contractual arrangements, the laws of some countries in which the Company does business or distributes its products do not offer the same level of protection to intellectual property as do the laws of the United States. 30 Our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and subject to substantial fluctuation. The Company’s quarterly income (loss) from operations have fluctuated significantly in the past. For example, from the first quarter of 2008 through the fourth quarter of 2010, quarterly operating results have ranged from an operating loss of $9.0 million to an operating income of $11.3 million. The Company’s operating results may continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of many specific factors that include: • Continued turmoil in the global economy; • The demand for the Company’s products, including reduced demand related to changes in marketing focus for certain products, software market conditions or general economic conditions as they pertain to information technology (IT) spending; • Fluctuations in the length of the Company’s sales cycles, which may vary depending on the complexity of our products as well as the complexity of the customer’s specific software and service needs; • The size and timing of orders for the Company’s software products and services, which, because many orders are completed in the final days of each quarter, may be delayed to future quarters; • The number, timing and significance of new software product announcements, both by the Company and its competitors; • Customers’ unexpected postponement or termination of expected system upgrades or replacement due to a variety of factors including economic conditions, credit availability, changes in IT strategies or management changes; • Changes in accounting standards, including software revenue recognition standards; • Currency fluctuations and devaluation; and • Fluctuations in number of customers renewing maintenance and support. In addition, the Company has historically realized a significant portion of its software license revenues in the final month of any quarter, with a concentration of such revenues recorded in the final ten business days of that month. Further, the Company generally realizes a significant portion of its annual software license revenues in the final quarter of the fiscal year. Due to the above factors, among others, the Company’s revenues are difficult to forecast. The Company, however, bases its expense levels, including operating expenses and hiring plans, in significant part, on its expectations of future revenue. As a result, the Company expects its expense levels to be relatively fixed in the short term. The Company’s failure to meet revenue expectations could adversely affect operating results. Further, an unanticipated decline in revenue for a particular quarter may disproportionately affect the Company’s operating results in that quarter because the majority of the Company’s expenses will be fixed in the short term. As a result, the Company believes that period-to-period comparisons of the Company’s results of operations are not, and will not, necessarily be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. Our operating cash flows are subject to fluctuation, primarily related to our ability to timely collect accounts receivable and to achieve anticipated revenues and expenses. Negative fluctuations in operating cash flows may require us to seek additional cash sources to fund our working capital requirements. If additional cash sources are not available on terms acceptable to the Company, our operations could be adversely affected. From the first quarter of 2008 through the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company’s quarterly operating cash flows have ranged from $0.1 million provided by operating activities to $34.8 million provided by operating activities. The Company’s cash and cash equivalents have increased from $89.8 million at December 31, 2008 to $103.1 million at December 31, 2010. However, the Company has at times experienced decreasing revenues and, prior to the first quarter of 2003, continued operating losses. If the Company is not successful in achieving its anticipated revenues and expenses or maintaining a positive cash flow, the Company may not have sufficient resources for planned growth and may be required to take actions to reduce its operating expenses, such as reductions in work force and/or seek additional sources of funding. Historically, the Company has also experienced fluctuations in the proportion of accounts receivable over 90 days old and days sales outstanding. These fluctuations have been due to various issues, including product and service quality, deteriorating financial condition of customers during the recent recession and lack of effectiveness of the Company’s collection processes. During the past two years, our days sales outstanding have fluctuated from lows of 71 to highs of 78, due to a variety of factors. If the Company cannot successfully collect a significant portion of its net accounts receivable, 31 the Company may be required to seek alternative financing sources. Further, without sufficient cash flows, the Company may not be able to service its debt or it may not be able to comply with certain covenants under its 2007 credit facility. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had a $230.0 million obligation to holders of the Company’s convertible senior notes and $47.5 million in principal outstanding under the 2007 credit facility. The market for our stock is volatile and fluctuations in operating results, changes in the Company’s guidance on revenues and earnings estimates and other factors could negatively impact our stock’s price. During the three-year period ended December 31, 2010, the closing price of the Company’s common stock ranged from a low of $2.36 to a high of $12.62. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the closing price of the Company’s common stock ranged from a low of $6.41 to a high of $10.75. The market prices for securities of technology companies, including the Company’s, have historically been quite volatile. Quarter to quarter variations in operating results, changes in the Company’s guidance on revenues and earnings estimates, announcements of technological innovations or new products by the Company or its competitors, announcements of major contract awards, announcements of industry acquisitions by us or our competitors, changes in accounting standards or regulatory requirements as promulgated by the FASB, SEC, NASDAQ or other regulatory entities, changes in management and other events or factors may have a significant impact on the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. In addition, the securities of many technology companies have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have often been related more to changes in recommendations or financial estimates by securities analysts than to the companies’ actual operating performance. Any of these conditions may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. Unplanned or unforeseeable business interruptions could adversely affect our business. A number of particular types of business interruptions with respect to which we have no control could greatly interfere with our ability to conduct business. For example, a substantial portion of our facilities, including our corporate headquarters and other critical business operations, are located near major earthquake faults. We do not carry earthquake insurance and do not reserve for earthquake-related losses. In addition, our computer systems are susceptible to damage from fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, and similar events. The Company continues to consider and implement its options and develop contingency plans to avoid and/or minimize potential disruptions to its telecommunication services. However, any force majeure or act of God as described above could cause severe disruptions in our business. If open source software expands into enterprise software applications, our software license revenues may decline. Open source software includes a broad range of software applications and operating environments produced by companies, development organizations and individual software developers and typically licensed for use, distribution and modification at a nominal cost or often, free of charge. A notable example of open source software is the Linux operating system, which continues to gain in popularity. To the extent that the open source software models expand and non-commercial companies and software developers create and contribute competitive enterprise software applications to the open source community, we may have to adjust our pricing, maintenance and distribution strategies and models, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. Future acquisitions of technologies or companies, which are paid for partially, or entirely through the issuance of stock or stock rights could prove dilutive to existing shareholders. Consistent with past experience, the Company expects that the consideration it might pay for any future acquisitions of companies or technologies could include stock, rights to purchase stock, cash or some combination of the foregoing. For example, the Company’s Scala acquisition in 2004 involved the issuance of approximately 4.25 million shares of the Company’s Common Stock. If the Company issues stock or rights to purchase stock in connection with future acquisitions, then-existing holders of the Company’s Common Stock may experience dilution. 32 Our preferred share rights plan, blank check preferred stock and Delaware law contain provisions that may inhibit potential acquisition bids, which may harm our stock price or discourage potential acquirers. We have in place a preferred share rights plan and our Board of Directors also has the authority to issue preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of the shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. If we issue any of these shares of preferred stock in the future, the rights of holders of our common stock may be negatively affected. Although we have no current plans to issue shares of preferred stock, if we issue preferred stock, a change of control of our company could be delayed, deferred or prevented. Furthermore, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law restricts certain business combinations with any “interested stockholder” as defined by that statute. In the past, we have been the target of unsolicited takeover bids and an unsolicited tender offer. The preferred share rights plan and these other provisions are designed to encourage potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors and give our Board an opportunity to consider various alternatives to increase stockholder value. The preferred share rights plan and other provisions are also intended to discourage certain tactics that may be used in proxy contests. However, the operation of the preferred share rights plan, the potential issuance of preferred stock or the restrictions in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control, which may adversely affect the market price of our stock. 33 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 