Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The use of words such as "anticipates," "estimates," "expects," "projects," "intends," "plans" and "believes," among others, generally identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, among others, statements relating to: IAC's anticipated financial performance, IAC's business prospects and strategy, anticipated trends and prospects in the various industries in which IAC businesses operate, new products, services and related strategies and other similar matters. These forward looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions about future events, which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward looking statements included in this report for a variety of reasons, including, among others, the risk factors set forth below. Other unknown or unpredictable factors that could also adversely affect IAC's business, financial condition and results of operations may arise from time to time. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the forward looking statements discussed in this report may not prove to be accurate. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on these forward looking statements, which only reflect the views of IAC management as of the date of this report. IAC does not undertake to update these forward-looking statements. 10 Table of Contents Risk Factors Mr. Diller currently controls IAC. If Mr. Diller ceases to control IAC, Liberty Media Corporation may effectively control IAC. Subject to the terms of an amended and restated stockholders agreement between Mr. Diller and Liberty, Mr. Diller has an irrevocable proxy to vote shares of IAC common stock and IAC Class B common stock held by Liberty. Accordingly, as of the date of this report, Mr. Diller effectively controls the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote or for the consent of IAC stockholders (other than with respect to the election by the holders of IAC common stock of 25% of the members of IAC's Board of Directors and matters as to which Delaware law requires a separate class vote). Upon Mr. Diller's permanent departure from IAC, the irrevocable proxy terminates and, depending upon the capitalization of IAC at such time, Liberty may effectively control the voting power of the capital stock of IAC through its ownership of IAC Class B common stock. In addition, under an amended and restated governance agreement among IAC, Liberty and Mr. Diller, Mr. Diller generally has the right to consent to limited matters in the event that IAC's ratio of total debt to EBITDA (as defined in the governance agreement) equals or exceeds 4:1 over a continuous 12-month period. While Mr. Diller may not currently exercise this right, no assurances can be given that this right will not be triggered in the future, and if so, that Mr. Diller will consent to any of the limited matters at such time, in which case IAC would not be able to engage in transactions or take actions covered by this consent right. As a result of Mr. Diller's ownership interests and voting power (and Liberty's ownership interests and voting power), Mr. Diller currently is (and upon Mr. Diller's permanent departure from IAC in the future, Liberty may be) in a position to control or influence significant corporate actions, including without limitation, corporate transactions such as mergers, business combinations or dispositions of assets and determinations with respect to IAC's significant business direction and policies. This concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to IAC, which could adversely affect the market price of IAC securities. Furthermore, given this concentrated control, IAC currently falls within the definition of a "Controlled Company" within the meaning of The Marketplace Rules of The Nasdaq Stock Market (the "Marketplace Rules"). As a Controlled Company, IAC is permitted, and has elected, to opt out of certain corporate governance requirements in the Marketplace Rules applicable to non-controlled companies, specifically, those that would otherwise require: (i) IAC's Board of Directors to have a majority of "independent" directors (within the meaning of the Marketplace Rules) and (ii) nominations to IAC's Board of Directors to be selected, or recommended for selection, either by a nominating committee comprised entirely of independent directors or by a majority of independent directors. Accordingly, IAC stockholders may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the Marketplace Rules. We depend on our key personnel. Our future success will depend upon the continued ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled individuals, with the continued contributions of senior management, particularly Barry Diller, the Chairman and CEO of IAC, being especially critical to our success. If Mr. Diller no longer serves in, or serves in some lesser capacity than, his current role, our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as the market price of IAC securities, could be adversely affected. Competition for well-qualified employees across IAC and its various businesses is intense, and our continued ability to compete effectively depends, in part, upon our ability to attract new employees. While we have established programs to attract new employees and provide incentives to retain existing employees, particularly senior management, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract new employees or retain the services of Mr. Diller, other members of senior management or any other key 11 Table of Contents employees in the future. Mr. Diller does not have an employment agreement with IAC, though he owns approximately 4.3 million shares of IAC common stock, and holds unvested options to purchase approximately 1.8 million shares of IAC common stock, all of which vest in June 2010 and expire in June 2015. We depend upon arrangements with Google and any adverse changes in this relationship could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A substantial portion of our consolidated revenue is attributable to a paid listing supply agreement with Google that expires on December 31, 2012. Pursuant to this agreement, Google sells paid listings directly to advertisers, which we in turn display and syndicate in response to user search queries that contain keywords selected and purchased by advertisers through Google. In exchange for making our search traffic available to Google, we receive a share of the revenue generated by the paid listings supplied to us. The amount of revenue we receive from Google depends upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the amount Google charges for advertisements and the efficiency of Google's system in attracting advertisers and serving up relevant paid listings in response to queries. In addition, our revenue will be impacted by the effectiveness (in terms of ultimately generating revenue for Google's advertisers) of clicks from users of our search services. If Google's performance were to deteriorate for any reason or if our traffic fails to generate revenue for Google's advertisers, revenues we receive from Google pursuant to the paid listing supply agreement would decrease, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our paid listing supply agreement requires that we establish guidelines to govern certain activities of certain third parties to whom we syndicate paid listings, specifically, the manner in which these parties drive search traffic to their websites and display Google paid listings within search results. Noncompliance with these requirements could, if not cured, result in the imposition of additional restrictions on our ability to syndicate paid listings and would give Google the right to terminate the paid listing supply agreement. The termination of the paid listing supply agreement by Google or the failure of Google to perform its obligations under the agreement would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If this were to occur, we may not be able to find another suitable alternate paid listings provider (or if so, the terms of the agreements and the quality of paid listings may be inferior relative to our arrangements with, and the paid listings supplied by, Google) or otherwise replace the lost revenues. General economic events or trends that reduce advertising spending could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. A substantial portion of our consolidated revenue is attributable to advertising. Accordingly, we are particularly sensitive to events and trends that result in decreased advertising expenditures. Advertising expenditures have historically been cyclical in nature, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns, as well as levels of consumer confidence and discretionary spending. Small and local businesses with which we do business are particularly sensitive to these events and trends, given that they are not as well situated to weather the current economic environment as their larger competitors, which are generally better capitalized and have greater access to credit. The continuing adverse economic conditions generally have caused, and we expect that they may continue to cause, decreases and/or delays in both advertising and consumer expenditures, as well as related decreases in queries likely to generate revenue, any of which would reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Our success depends upon the continued growth and acceptance of online advertising, particularly paid listings, as an effective alternative to traditional, offline advertising and the continued commercial use of the internet. Many advertisers still have limited experience with online advertising and may continue to devote significant portions of their advertising budgets to traditional offline advertising media. Accordingly, we continue to compete with traditional media, including television, radio and print, in addition to a multitude of websites with high levels of traffic and online advertising networks, for a share of available advertising expenditures. We believe that the continued growth and acceptance of online advertising generally will depend, to a large extent, on its perceived effectiveness and the acceptance of related advertising models, the continued growth in commercial use of the internet (particularly abroad), the extent to which software programs that limit or prevent advertising from being displayed become commonplace and the extent to which the industry is able to effectively manage click fraud. Any lack of growth in the market for online advertising, particularly for paid listings, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. We depend, in part, upon arrangements with third parties to drive traffic to our various websites and convert visitors into users and customers. We engage in a variety of activities designed to attract traffic to our various websites and convert visitors into repeat users and customers. How successful we are in these efforts depends, in part, upon our continued ability to enter into arrangements with third parties to drive traffic to our various websites, as well as the continued introduction of new and enhanced products and services that resonate with users and customers generally. For example, in an effort to increase traffic to our destination search websites, we have entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, agreements to distribute our toolbars and search boxes to users through third parties. These agreements are generally not exclusive, are for a short term and are terminable by either party given notice. Our inability to enter into new (or renew existing) agreements to distribute our toolbars and search boxes through third parties would result in a decrease in traffic to our destination search websites, and in turn related decreases in queries and advertising revenues, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in the case of our Match business, we have entered into a number of arrangements with third parties to drive traffic to our personals websites. Pursuant to these arrangements, third parties generally promote our services on their websites and we pay a fixed fee when visitors to these websites click though to our personals websites. These arrangements are generally not exclusive, are for a short term and are terminable by either party given notice. If existing arrangements with third parties are terminated or are not renewed upon their expiration and we fail to replace this traffic and related revenues, or if we are unable to enter into new arrangements with third parties in response to industry trends, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In the case of our ServiceMagic business, our ability to drive traffic depends, in part, on the nature and number of the third party service professionals who are members of our service provider network. While these professionals are required to agree that they will operate in accordance with our terms and conditions, we do not enter into long term contracts with them. In addition, a significant number of our service professionals are sole proprietorships and small businesses, which are particularly sensitive to economic downturns, constrained liquidity and decreases in consumer spending. As a result, our network of service professionals may experience turnover from time to time, which if significant or recurring over a prolonged basis, could result in a decrease in traffic to ServiceMagic.com and increased costs, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we succeed in driving traffic to our destination search and other websites, we may not be able to convert this traffic or otherwise retain users unless we continue to provide quality products and services that resonate with consumers. We may not be able to adapt quickly and/or in cost-effective 13 Table of Contents manner to frequent changes in user and customer requirements, which can be difficult to predict, or appropriately time the introduction of enhancements and/or new products or services to the market. Our inability to provide quality products and services would adversely affect user and customer experiences, which would result in a decrease in traffic to our various websites, lower conversion rates and a related decrease in revenues, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As discussed below, these traffic building and conversion initiatives also involve the expenditure of considerable sums for marketing, as well as for the development and introduction of new services, products and enhancements, infrastructure and other related efforts. Marketing efforts designed to drive traffic to our various websites may not be successful or cost-effective. Traffic building and conversion initiatives involve considerable expenditures for online and offline advertising and marketing. We have made, and expect to continue to make, significant expenditures for search engine marketing (primarily in the form of the purchase of keywords), online display advertising and traditional offline advertising in connection with these initiatives, which may not be successful or cost-effective. In the case of our search engine marketing efforts, our failure to respond successfully to rapid and frequent changes in the pricing and operating dynamics of search engines could adversely affect the placement of paid listings that appear in response to keywords we purchase, as well as adversely affect the pricing of the online advertising we purchase generally, which would increase our costs. One of the most cost-effective efforts we employ to attract and acquire new, and retain existing, users and members is commonly referred to as search engine optimization, or SEO. SEO involves developing websites to rank well in search engine results. Search engines frequently update and change the logic that determines the placement and display of results of user searches. The failure to successfully manage SEO efforts across our businesses, including the timely modification of SEO efforts from time to time in response to periodic changes in search engine algorithms, search query trends and related actions by providers of search services designed to ensure the display of unique offerings in search results (which actions by search service providers may result in algorithmic listings being displayed less prominently within search engine results), could result in a substantial decrease in traffic to our various websites, which would result in substantial decreases in conversion rates and repeat business, as well as increased costs if we were to replace free traffic with paid traffic, any or all of which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Lastly, as discussed above, we also enter into various arrangements with third parties in an effort to increase traffic, which arrangements are generally more cost-effective than traditional marketing efforts. If we are unable to renew existing (and enter into new) arrangements of this nature, sales and marketing costs as a percentage of revenue would increase over the long-term. Any such failure to attract and acquire new, and retain existing, traffic, users and customers in a cost-effective manner could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to adapt quickly enough to changing industry standards. The e-commerce industry is characterized by evolving industry standards, coupled with frequent and related new service and product introductions and enhancements. The development of new service and product introductions and enhancements in response to evolving industry standards requires significant time and resources and we may not be able to adapt quickly enough (and/or in a cost-effective manner) to these changes or appropriately time the introduction of new services and products to the market and our failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents The continued widespread adoption of new internet or telecommunications technologies and devices or other technological changes could require us to modify or adapt our services or infrastructures and our failure to do so could render our existing websites, services and proprietary technologies obsolete, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, user and usage volumes on mobile devices continue to increase relative to those of personal computers. The lower resolution, functionality and memory associated with mobile devices could make the use of our various services through these devices difficult. While we have developed mobile versions of certain of our services, we have limited experience with these applications and they may not be compelling to users. Furthermore, existing agreements across our business may need to be amended to cover the provision of our services on mobile devices, which the counterparties may be unwilling to do. Furthermore, in the case of our search services, third parties have introduced (and continue to introduce) new technologies and applications that may interfere with the ability of our users to access or utilize some of our services generally. For example, third parties have introduced technologies and applications that prevent users from downloading toolbars generally and/or have features that significantly lessen the likelihood that previously downloaded toolbars will remain in active use, such as features that interfere with the functionality of search boxes embedded within our toolbars and the maintenance of settings previously selected by consumers in connection with the downloading of our toolbars. Third parties have also introduced technologies and applications that are either not compatible with (or otherwise interfere with) the "search assistant" function embedded within our toolbars, pursuant to which our toolbars generate search results for users that receive "DNS," "404" and other errors in response to search queries entered into search boxes embedded with our toolbars or the address bar of their web browsers. These technologies and applications adversely impact our ability to generate search queries through our toolbars, which in turns adversely impacts our revenues. Our failure to successfully modify our toolbars in a cost-effective manner in response to the introduction and adoption of these new technologies and applications could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience operational and financial risks in connection with acquisitions. In addition, some of the businesses we acquire may incur significant losses from operations or experience impairment of carrying value. We have made numerous acquisitions in the past and our future growth may depend, in part, on acquisitions. We may experience operational and financial risks in connection with acquisitions. To the extent that we continue to grow through acquisitions, we will need to: •successfully integrate the operations, as well as the accounting, financial controls, management information, technology, human resources and other administrative systems, of acquired businesses with our existing operations and systems; •retain or hire senior management and other key personnel at acquired businesses; and •successfully manage acquisition-related strain on the management, operations and financial resources of IAC and/or acquired businesses. We may not be successful in addressing these challenges or any other problems encountered in connection with historical and future acquisitions. In addition, the anticipated benefits of one or more acquisitions may not be realized and future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and the assumption of contingent liabilities. Also, the value of goodwill and other intangible assets acquired could be impacted by one or more continuing unfavorable events and/or trends, which could result in significant impairment charges. The occurrence of any these events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents We operate in certain international markets in which we have limited experience, and as a result, face additional risks. We may not be able to successfully expand into new, or further into existing, international markets. We currently operate in a limited number of jurisdictions abroad and may continue to expand our international presence. In order for our products and services in these jurisdictions to achieve widespread acceptance, commercial use and acceptance of the internet must continue to grow, which growth may occur at slower rates than those experienced in the U.S. Moreover, we must continue to successfully tailor our services to the unique customs and cultures of these jurisdictions, which can be difficult and costly and the failure to do so could slow our international growth. Operating abroad, where we have limited experience, exposes us to additional risks. For example, we may experience difficulties in managing operations due to distance, language and cultural differences, including issues associated with the establishment of management systems and infrastructures and the staffing of foreign operations, as well as exchange rate fluctuations. Our success in international markets will also depend, in part, on our ability to identify potential acquisition candidates, joint venture or other partners, and to enter into arrangements with these parties on favorable terms, given that we could encounter significant barriers to entry in connection with expansion efforts outside of these arrangements. A variety of new and existing U.S. and foreign laws could subject us to claims or otherwise harm our business. We are subject to a variety of laws in the U.S. and abroad that are costly to comply with, can result in negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort, and can subject us to claims or other remedies. Many of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the internet and related technologies and, as a result, do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the internet and related technologies. The laws that do reference the internet are being interpreted by the courts, but their applicability and scope remain uncertain. For example, the laws relating to the liability of providers of online services are currently unsettled both within the U.S. and abroad. Claims have been threatened and filed under both U.S. and foreign law for defamation, libel, slander, invasion of privacy and other tort claims, unlawful activity, copyright and trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials searched and the ads posted by our users, our products and services, or content generated by our users. In addition, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act has provisions that limit, but do not necessarily eliminate, our liability for listing or linking to third-party web sites that include materials that infringe copyrights or other rights, so long as we comply with the statutory requirements of this act. The Child Online Protection Act and the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act restrict the distribution of materials considered harmful to children and impose additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect information from minors. In the area of data protection, many states have passed laws requiring notification to users when there is a security breach for personal data, such as California's Information Practices Act. We face similar risks and costs as our products and services are offered in international markets and may be subject to additional regulations. Any failure on our part to comply with applicable laws may subject us to additional liabilities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if the laws to which we are currently subject are amended or interpreted adversely to our interests, or if new adverse laws are adopted, our products and services might need to be modified to comply with such laws, which would increase our costs and could result in decreased demand for our products and services to the extent that we pass on such costs to consumers. As a result, any changes of this nature could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents The processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal requirements or differing views of personal privacy rights. We receive, transmit and store a large volume of personally identifiable information and other user data in connection with the processing of search queries and consumer transactions. The sharing, use, disclosure and protection of this information are governed by the respective privacy and data security policies maintained by our various businesses. Moreover, there are federal, state and international laws regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, disclosure and protection of personally identifiable information and user data. Specifically, personally identifiable information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, the intent of which is to protect the privacy of personal information that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. There are currently pending several bills in the U.S. Congress, which if passed could result in more onerous requirements regarding the manner in which certain personally identifiable information and other user data will need to be stored and managed. We could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in our practices or privacy policies of our various businesses or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As privacy and data protection have become more sensitive issues, we may also become exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing views on the privacy of consumer and other user data collected by these businesses. The failure of any of our businesses, or their various third party vendors and service providers, to comply with applicable privacy policies or federal, state or similar international laws and regulations or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release of personally identifiable information or other user data could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing intellectual property rights of third parties. We regard our intellectual property rights, including trademarks, domain names, trade secrets, patents, copyrights and other similar intellectual property, as critical to our success. For example, the businesses within our principal reporting segments, our Search, Match and ServiceMagic reporting segments, rely heavily upon their trademarks (primarily Ask.com, FunWebProducts, Match.com and ServiceMagic.com and related domain names and logos), through which they market their services and seek to build and maintain brand loyalty and recognition. So long as these businesses continue to use these trademarks to identify their products and services and renew related trademarks upon their expiration, they will continue to have related trademark protections indefinitely under current trademark laws, rules and regulations. The businesses within our Search segment also rely heavily upon trade secrets, primarily search algorithms through which organic search results are generated. To a lesser extent, these businesses also rely upon patented and patent-pending proprietary technologies and processes, primarily those relating to search-related products and services, with expiration dates for patented technologies ranging from 2017 to 2027, and copyrighted material, primarily emoticons, characters and other content that is incorporated into, and used in connection with the marketing of, downloadable toolbars generally. Our Match segment also relies upon patent-pending proprietary technologies relating to matching process systems and related features, products and services. Our ServiceMagic segment also relies heavily upon trade secrets, primarily the matching algorithm through which members of its network of local service professionals are matched with consumers, as well as related patented proprietary technologies that expire in 2020. 17 Table of Contents We rely on a combination of laws and contractual restrictions with employees, customers, suppliers, affiliates and others to establish and protect our various intellectual property rights. For example, we have generally registered and continue to apply to register and renew, or secure by contract where appropriate, trademarks and service marks as they are developed and used, and reserve, register and renew domain names as we deem appropriate. Effective trademark protection may not be available or may not be sought in every country in which products and services are made available and contractual disputes may affect the use of marks governed by private contract. Similarly, not every variation of a domain name may be available or be registered, even if available. We also generally seek to apply for patents or for other similar statutory protections as and if we deem appropriate, based on then current facts and circumstances, and will continue to do so in the future. No assurances can be given that any patent application we have filed will result in a patent being issued, or that any existing or future patents will afford adequate protection against competitors and similar technologies. In addition, no assurances can be given that third parties will not create new products or methods that achieve similar results without infringing upon patents we own. Despite these precautions, our intellectual property rights may still not be protected in a meaningful manner, challenges to contractual rights could arise or third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. The occurrence of any of these events could result in the erosion of our brand names and limitations on our ability to control marketing on or through the internet using our various domain names, as well as impede our ability to effectively compete against competitors with similar technologies, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. From time to time, we have been subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business, including claims of alleged infringement of trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights held by third parties. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. Any litigation of this nature, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Patent litigation tends to be particularly protracted and expensive. Our success depends, in part, on the integrity of our systems and infrastructure. System interruption and the lack of integration and redundancy in our information systems may affect our businesses. To succeed, our systems and infrastructure must perform well on a consistent basis. From time to time, we may experience occasional system interruptions that make some or all of our systems or data unavailable or prevent us from providing services, which could adversely affect our business. Moreover, as traffic to our various websites and the related number of users and customers increase and the number of new (and presumably more complex) products and services that we introduce continues to grow, we will need to upgrade our systems, infrastructure and technologies generally to facilitate this growth. If we do not do so or if we experience inefficiencies and/or operational failures in connection with these efforts, third parties with whom we do business may not be able to access our services on an intermittent or prolonged basis and the quality of the user/customer experience could be adversely affected. Moreover, even if we do not encounter any inefficiencies and/or operational failures in connection with these efforts, third parties with whom we do business may not make the changes to their systems, infrastructure and technology needed in order to access our services on a timely basis, if at all. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also rely on third party computer systems, data centers, broadband and other communications systems and service providers in connection with the provision of services generally, as well as to facilitate and process certain transactions with customers. Any interruptions, outages or delays in our 18 Table of Contents systems or those of our third party providers, or deterioration in the performance of these systems, could impair our ability to provide services and/or process certain transactions with customers. Furthermore, data security breaches (as a result of the actions of hackers or otherwise), fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God and other similar events or disruptions may damage or interrupt computer, data, broadband or other communications systems at any time. Any event of this nature could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from providing services to users and customers. While we have backup systems for certain aspects of our operations, our systems are not fully redundant and disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. In addition, we may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for losses from a major interruption. In particular, our destination search websites may be adversely affected by fraudulent, surreptitious or other unwanted computer programs, applications and activity that make changes to users' computers and interfere with overall experience of our services, such as by hijacking queries to these websites or altering or replacing search results generated. This type of interference often occurs without disclosure to or consent from users, resulting in a negative experience that users may associate with us. These disruptive programs and applications may be difficult or impossible to uninstall or disable, may reinstall themselves and may circumvent efforts to block or remove them. In addition, downloadable toolbars through which we provide search services are also subject to attack by viruses, worms and other malicious software programs, which could jeopardize the security of information stored in users' computer or in our systems and networks. No assurances can be given that our efforts to combat these malicious applications will be successful and/or that our products and services will not have (or will not be perceived to have) vulnerabilities in this regard. If any of these adverse events were to occur, it could damage our reputation and result in the loss of current and potential users and customers, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and otherwise be costly to remedy. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 