Item 1a. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The occurrence of any of the following risks described below and elsewhere in this document, including the risk that our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects and the trading price of our securities. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects and the trading price of our securities. Factors Affecting Our Operating Results and Financial Condition We need to raise additional funds and expect that we will need to continue to raise funds in the future, and additional funds may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all; failure to raise significant additional funds may cause us to cease development of our products and operations. We have substantial operating expenses associated with the development of our product candidates and as of December 31, 2011, we had cash and cash equivalents of $47.1 million. We do not expect that our existing cash and cash equivalents, including additional funds received to date, will provide sufficient working capital to fund our presently anticipated operations beyond the second quarter of 2012. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient earnings, access to liquidity or cash flow in the future to meet our operating expenses and other obligations. Raising additional capital will likely require that we issue additional shares of our common stock. Because of the number of shares reserved for issuance under various convertible securities, derivative securities and otherwise, we have very few authorized shares of common stock available for issuance and it can be difficult for us to obtain an increase in our authorized shares. If we do not have enough shares authorized to effect an equity financing, our ability to raise capital through equity financings may be harmed. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities, or securities convertible into our equity securities, our shareholders may experience dilution of their proportionate ownership of us. We may not be able to raise such capital or, if we can, it may not be on favorable terms. We may seek to raise additional capital through public or private equity financings, partnerships, joint ventures, dispositions of assets, debt financings or restructurings, bank borrowings or other sources. To obtain additional funding, we may need to enter into arrangements that require us to relinquish rights to certain technologies, drug candidates, products and/or potential markets. In addition, some financing alternatives may require us to meet additional regulatory requirements in the European Union (including Italy) and the United States and we may be subject to 21 Table of Contents certain contractual limitations, which may increase our costs and harm our ability to obtain additional funding. If adequate funds are not otherwise available, we will further curtail operations significantly, including the delay, modification or cancellation of operations and plans related to Pixuvri, OPAXIO, tosedostat, brostallicin, and bisplatinates and may be forced to cease operations, liquidate our assets and possibly seek bankruptcy protection. Bankruptcy may result in the termination of agreements pursuant to which we license certain intellectual property rights, including the rights to Pixuvri, OPAXIO, tosedostat, brostallicin and bisplatinates. We need to implement a reduction in expenses across our operations if we are unable to secure additional financing. We need substantial additional capital to fund our current operations. If we are unable to secure additional financing on acceptable terms in the near future, we will need to implement additional cost reduction initiatives, such as further reductions in the cost of our workforce and the discontinuation of a number of business initiatives to further reduce our rate of cash utilization and extend our existing cash balances. We believe that these additional cost reduction initiatives, if undertaken, could provide us with additional time to continue our pursuit of additional funding sources and also strategic alternatives. In the event that we are unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms and reduce our expenses, we may be required to limit or cease our operations, pursue a plan to sell our operating assets, seek bankruptcy protection, or otherwise modify our business strategy, which could materially harm our future business prospects. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market and the Mercato Telematico Azionario stock market in Italy, or the MTA, and we may not be able to maintain those listings or trading on these exchanges may be halted or suspended, which may make it more difficult for investors to sell shares of our common stock. Effective with the opening of trading on January 8, 2009, the U.S. listing of our common stock was transferred to The NASDAQ Capital Market, subject to meeting a minimum market value of listed securities of $35.0 million. NASDAQ’s Listing Qualifications Panel, or the Panel, approved this transfer after our market capitalization did not comply with the minimum market capitalization required for companies listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, and we presented a plan to the Panel for regaining compliance with the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. On January 23, 2009, we received an Additional Staff Determination Letter from NASDAQ that stated that the NASDAQ staff had concluded that we had violated NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4350(i)(1)(C) (now NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5635), which requires shareholder approval in connection with an acquisition if the issuance or potential issuance is greater than 20% of the pre-acquisition shares outstanding, and that we had at times not complied with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(17) regarding submission of a “Listing of Additional Shares” form. On February 18, 2009, we updated the Panel on our plan for regaining compliance and requested an extension of the deadline to regain compliance with the minimum market capitalization requirement for The NASDAQ Capital Market. On March 6, 2009, we were notified by NASDAQ that the Panel determined to continue the listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market, subject to the condition that, on or before April 6, 2009, we demonstrated compliance with all applicable standards for continued listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, including the $35.0 million minimum market capitalization requirement. In addition, the Panel issued a public reprimand for our prior failures to comply with the shareholder approval requirements and late filing of “Listing of Additional Shares” forms. On April 2, 2009, we were notified by NASDAQ that we had complied with the Panel’s decision dated March 6, 2009, and, accordingly, the Panel determined to continue the listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market. NASDAQ reinstated the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement on August 3, 2009. On May 3, 2010, we received notice from NASDAQ indicating that for the last 30 consecutive business days the closing bid price of our common stock was below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market under NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5550(a)(2). This notification had no immediate effect on the listing of or the ability to trade our common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market. In accordance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we were provided a grace period of 180 calendar days, or until November 1, 2010, to regain compliance. We would have achieved compliance if the bid price of 22 Table of Contents our common stock closed at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of ten consecutive trading days before November 1, 2010. In addition, we were eligible for an additional 180-day grace period if we met all of the initial listing standards of NASDAQ, with the exception of the closing bid price. On November 2, 2010, we received notice from NASDAQ that it granted us an additional 180 days, or until May 2, 2011, to regain compliance with the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market under NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5550(a)(2). On May 3, 2011, we received a notice from NASDAQ stating that we had not regained compliance with NASDAQ’s $1.00 minimum bid price rule under NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5550(a)(2). On May 5, 2011, in an effort to regain compliance with the NASDAQ listing requirements and increase the per-share trading price of our common stock, our board of directors approved a 1-for-6 reverse stock split. The reverse stock split became effective on May 15, 2011. On June 1, 2011, we announced that we received a letter from NASDAQ indicating that as of that date we had regained compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5550(a)(2) and that as of that date we were in compliance with all applicable listing standards. As a result, our common stock will continue to be listed and traded on The NASDAQ Capital Market. However, notwithstanding our current compliance with NASDAQ listing standards, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our continued listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market in the future. The level of trading activity of our common stock may decline if it is no longer listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market. Furthermore, our failure to maintain a listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market may constitute an event of default under certain of our indebtedness which would accelerate the maturity date of such debt. As such, if our common stock ceases to be listed for trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market for any reason, it may harm our stock price, increase the volatility of our stock price and make it more difficult for investors to sell shares of our common stock. In the event our common stock is delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, we currently expect that our common stock would be eligible to be listed on the OTC Bulletin Board or Pink Sheets. We do not know what impact delisting from The NASDAQ Capital Market may have on our listing with the Borsa Italiana. Although we continue to be listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, trading in our common stock may be halted or suspended due to market conditions or if NASDAQ, the Commissione Nazionale per le Società e la Borsa, or CONSOB (which is the public authority responsible for regulating the Italian securities markets), or the Borsa Italiana (which ensures the development of the managed markets in Italy) determine that trading in our common stock is inadvisable. Trading in our common stock was halted by the Borsa Italiana on February 10, 2009, and, as a consequence, trading in our common stock was also halted by NASDAQ. After we provided CONSOB with additional information and clarification on our business operations and financial condition, as requested, and published a press release containing such information in Italy, the Borsa Italiana and NASDAQ lifted the trading halts on our common stock. In addition, on March 23, 2009, the Borsa Italiana halted trading of our common stock on the MTA and resumed trading prior to the opening of the MTA the next day after we filed a press release regarding the explanatory paragraph in our auditor’s reports on our December 31, 2008 and 2007 consolidated financial statements regarding their substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. As a consequence, NASDAQ also halted trading in our common stock on March 23, 2009, but re-initiated trading later that day. Although we file press releases with CONSOB at the end of each month regarding our business and financial condition, CONSOB may make additional inquiries about our business and financial condition at any time, and there can be no guarantee that the Borsa Italiana, CONSOB or NASDAQ will not halt trading in our shares again in the future. If our common stock ceases to be listed for trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market or the MTA, or both, for any reason, or if trading in our stock is halted or suspended on The NASDAQ Capital Market or the MTA, or both, such events may harm the trading price of our securities, increase the volatility of the trading price of our securities and make it more difficult for investors to buy or sell shares of our common stock. Moreover, if our common stock ceases to be listed for trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market or if trading in our stock is halted or suspended on The NASDAQ Capital Market, we may become subject to certain obligations. In addition, if we are not listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market and/or if our public float falls below $75 million, we will be limited in our ability to file new shelf registration statements on SEC Form S-3 and/or to fully use one or more 23 Table of Contents registration statements on SEC Form S-3. We have relied significantly on shelf registration statements on SEC Form S-3 for most of our financings in recent years, so any such limitations may harm our ability to raise the capital we need. We may be unable to obtain a quorum for meetings of our shareholders or obtain necessary shareholder approvals and therefore be unable to take certain corporate actions. At our Annual Meeting held on November 11, 2011, our shareholders approved a proposal to amend our articles of incorporation to reflect an increase in the total number of authorized shares from 284,999,999 to 384,999,999 and an increase in our authorized shares of common stock from 283,333,333 to 383,333,333. However, in the future, if we are unable to obtain a quorum at our shareholder meetings, including the Annual Meeting, and/or fail to obtain shareholder approval of corporation actions, such failure could harm us. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation, or our articles of incorporation, require that a quorum, generally consisting of one-third of the outstanding shares of voting stock, be represented in person, by telephone or by proxy in order to transact business at a meeting of our shareholders. In addition, amendments to our articles of incorporation, such as an amendment to increase our authorized capital stock, generally require the approval of a majority of our outstanding shares. As a result, there is a risk that we may not get shareholder approval for amendments to our articles of incorporation, including amendments to increase the number of authorized shares of common stock at a time when we need those shares to effect a future equity financing. If we do not receive shareholder approval for such increase in authorized shares, our ability to raise capital through equity financings will be significantly harmed. A substantial majority of our common shares are held by Italian institutions and, under Italian laws and regulations, it is difficult to communicate with the beneficial holders of those shares to obtain votes. In 2006, when a quorum required a majority of the outstanding shares of our voting stock be represented in person or by proxy, we scheduled two annual meetings of shareholders, but were unable to obtain quorum at either meeting. Following that failure to a obtain quorum, we contacted certain depository banks in Italy where significant numbers of shares of our common stock were held and asked them to cooperate by making a book-entry transfer of their share positions at Monte Titoli to their U.S. correspondent bank, who would then transfer the shares to an account of the Italian bank at a U.S. broker-dealer that is an affiliate of that bank. Certain of the banks contacted agreed to make the share transfer pursuant to these arrangements as of the record date of the meeting, subject to the relevant beneficial owner being given notice before such record date and taking no action to direct the voting of such shares. We were able to obtain a quorum to hold special meetings of the shareholders in April 2007, January 2008, March 2009 and June 2011 and annual meetings of the shareholders in September 2007, June 2008, October 2009, September 2010 and November 2011. Nevertheless, obtaining a quorum at future meetings even at the lower threshold and obtaining necessary shareholder approvals will depend in part upon the willingness of the Italian depository banks to continue participating in the custody transfer arrangements, and we cannot be assured that those banks that have participated in the past will continue to participate in custody transfer arrangements in the future. We are continuing to explore other alternatives to achieve a quorum for and shareholder representation at our meetings; however, we cannot be certain that we will find an alternate method if we are unable to continue to use the custody transfer arrangements. As a result, we may be unable to obtain a quorum at future annual or special meetings of shareholders or obtain shareholder approval of proposals when needed. Even if we obtain a quorum at our shareholder meetings, we may not obtain enough votes to approve matters to be resolved upon at those meetings. Under Rule 452 of the New York Stock Exchange, or Rule 452, the U.S. broker-dealer may only vote shares absent direction from the beneficial owner on certain specified “routine” matters, such as certain amendments to our articles of incorporation to increase authorized shares that are to be used for general corporate purposes and the ratification of our auditors. If our shareholders do not instruct their brokers on how to vote their shares on “non-routine” matters, then we may not obtain the necessary number of votes for approval. “Non-routine” matters include, for example, proposals that relate to the authorization or creation of indebtedness or preferred stock. Revisions to Rule 452 that further limit matters for 24 Table of Contents which broker discretionary voting is allowed, such as the recent revisions imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act to prohibit broker discretionary voting on matters related to executive compensation and in the election of directors, may further harm our ability to obtain a quorum and shareholder approval of certain matters. Therefore it is possible that even if we are able to obtain a quorum for our meetings of the shareholders we still may not receive enough votes to approve proxy proposals presented at such meeting and, depending on the proposal in question, including if a proposal is submitted to our shareholders to increase the number of authorized shares of common stock, such failure could harm us. For example, a proposal to approve a reverse stock split failed to receive sufficient votes to pass at the March 2009 shareholders meeting. We may continue to incur net losses, and we may never achieve profitability. We were incorporated in 1991 and have incurred a net operating loss every year since our formation. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.7 billion. We are pursuing regulatory approval for Pixuvri, OPAXIO, tosedostat, brostallicin and bisplatinates. We will need to conduct research, development, testing and regulatory compliance activities and undertake manufacturing and drug supply activities the costs of which, together with projected general and administrative expenses, may result in operating losses for the foreseeable future. We may never become profitable even if we are able to commercialize products currently in development or otherwise. We may be unable to use our net operating losses to reduce future income tax liability. We have substantial tax loss carryforwards for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result of prior changes in the stock ownership of the Company, our ability to use such carryforwards to offset future income or tax liability is limited under section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Moreover, future changes in the ownership of our stock, including those resulting from the issuance of shares of our common stock upon exercise of outstanding warrants, may further limit our ability to use our net operating losses. We have received audit reports with a going concern disclosure on our consolidated financial statements. As we may need to raise additional financing to fund our operations and satisfy obligations as they become due, our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph in their reports on our December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 consolidated financial statements regarding their substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. This may have a negative impact on the trading price of our common stock and we may have a more difficult time obtaining necessary financing. If we make any acquisitions, we will incur a variety of costs and may never realize the anticipated benefits. If appropriate opportunities become available, we may attempt to acquire businesses and assets that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. We currently have no agreements to consummate any pending material acquisitions. If we pursue any such transaction, the process of negotiating the acquisition and integrating an acquired business and assets may result in operating difficulties and expenditures and may require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business, whether or not any such transaction is ever consummated. Moreover, we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could harm our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects and the trading price of our securities. The global financial crisis may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict, and may further limit our ability to raise additional funds. The ongoing credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system has had and may continue to have an impact on our business and our financial condition. We may face significant challenges if conditions in 25 Table of Contents the financial markets do not improve or continue to worsen. In particular, our ability to access the capital markets and raise funds required for our operations may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our current and future funding requirements and on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. We are required to comply with the regulatory structure of Italy because our stock is traded on the MTA, which could result in administrative and other challenges and additional expenses. Our common stock is traded on the MTA and we are required to also comply with the rules and regulations of CONSOB and the Borsa Italiana, which ensures the development of the managed markets in Italy. Collectively, these entities regulate companies listed on Italy’s public markets. Conducting our operations in a manner that complies with all of the applicable laws and rules requires us to devote additional time and resources to regulatory compliance matters. For example, the process of seeking to understand and comply with the laws of each country, including tax, labor and regulatory laws, might require us to incur the expense of engaging additional outside counsel, accountants and other professional advisors and might result in delayed business initiatives as we seek to ensure that each new initiative will comply with all of the applicable regulatory regimes. In addition, the Borsa Italiana and CONSOB have made several requests for information asking us to provide additional clarifications about our business operations and financial condition, and we have complied with such requests and have met with CONSOB on several occasions to answer questions. Compliance with Italian regulatory requirements may delay additional issuances of our common stock; we are currently taking steps to attempt to conform to the requirements of the Italian stock exchange and CONSOB to allow such additional issuances. In addition, under Italian law, we must publish a registration document, securities note and summary that have to be approved by CONSOB prior to issuing common stock that exceeds, in any twelve-month period, 10% of the number of shares of our common stock outstanding at the beginning of that period (except for certain applicable exceptions). If we are unable to obtain and maintain a registration document, securities note or summary to cover general financing efforts under Italian law, we may be required to raise money using alternative forms of securities. For example, we may need to use convertible preferred stock and convertible debt since the common stock resulting from the conversion of such securities, subject to the current provisions of European Directive No. 71/2003 and, according to the current interpretations of the Committee of European Securities Regulators, is not subject to the 10% limitation imposed by E.U. and Italian law. However, there can be no assurance that these exceptions to the registration document requirement are not changed from time to time. Moreover, on December 10, 2009, CONSOB sent us a notice claiming two violations of the provisions of Section 114, paragraph 1 of the Italian Legislative Decree no. 58/98 due to the asserted late disclosure of certain information then reported, at CONSOB’s request, in press releases disseminated on December 19, 2008 and March 23, 2009. Such information concerned, respectively: (i) the conversion by BAM Opportunity Fund LP of 9.66% notes into shares of common stock that occurred between October 24, 2008 and November 19, 2008; and (ii) the contents of the opinion expressed by Stonefield Josephson, Inc., an independent registered public accounting firm, with respect to our 2008 financial statements. The sanctions established by Section 193, paragraph 1 of the Italian Legislative Decree no. 58/98 for such violations are pecuniary administrative sanctions amounting to between €5,000 and €500,000, or approximately $6,000 to $649,000 converted using the currency exchange rate as of December 31, 2011, applicable to each of the two asserted violations. According to the applicable Italian legal provisions, CONSOB may impose such administrative sanctions by means of a decree stating the grounds of its decision only after evaluating our possible defenses that were submitted to CONSOB on January 8, 2010 (within 30 days of December 10, 2009, the notification date of the relevant charges, according to the applicable Italian rules). On July 12, 2010, CONSOB (a) notified us that it had begun the preliminary investigation for its decision on these administrative proceedings and (b) provided us with a preliminary investigation report in response to our defenses submitted on January 8, 2010. On August 12, 2010 (within 30 26 Table of Contents days of July 12, 2010, the notification date of the beginning of the aforesaid preliminary investigation, according to the applicable Italian rules), we submitted further defenses that CONSOB would have to evaluate before imposing any possible administrative sanctions. In a letter dated March 10, 2011, CONSOB notified us of a resolution confirming the occurrence of the violation asserted in clause (i) above and applied a fine in the amount of €40,000, or approximately $55,000 converted using the foreign currency exchange rate as of March 10, 2011, which we paid on April 5, 2011. CONSOB has not yet notified us of a resolution with respect to the violation asserted in clause (ii) above, but based on our assessment, we believe the likelihood that a pecuniary administrative sanction will be imposed on us for such asserted violation (ii) is probable. Our assets and liabilities that remain in our Italian branches make us subject to increased risk regarding currency exchange rate fluctuations. We are exposed to risks associated with the translation of euro-denominated financial results and accounts into U.S. dollars. As long as we continue to have assets and liabilities held in our Italian branches, the carrying value of these assets and liabilities will be affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to the euro. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to the euro might have an adverse effect on our reported results of operations and financial condition. We may owe additional amounts for value added taxes related to our operations in Europe. Our European operations are subject to value added tax, or VAT, which is usually applied to all goods and services purchased and sold throughout Europe. The VAT receivable is $5.0 million and $5.3 million as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. On April 14, 2009 and December 21, 2009, the Italian Tax Authority, or the ITA, issued notices of assessment to CTI (Europe) based on the ITA’s audit of CTI (Europe)’s VAT returns for the years 2003 and 2005, respectively. On June 25, 2010, the ITA issued notices of assessment to CTI (Europe) for the years 2006 and 2007 based on similar findings for the 2003 and 2005 assessments. The ITA audits concluded that CTI (Europe) did not collect and remit VAT on certain invoices issued to non-Italian clients for services performed by CTI (Europe). The assessments, including interest and penalties, for the years 2003, 2005, 2006 and 2007 are €0.5 million, €5.5 million, €2.5 million and €0.8 million, or approximately $0.7 million, $7.1 million, $3.3 million and $1.1 million converted using the currency exchange rate as of December 31, 2011, respectively. We believe that the services invoiced were non-VAT taxable consultancy services and that the VAT returns are correct as originally filed. We are vigorously defending ourselves against the assessments both on procedural grounds and on the merits of the case. If the decisions of the Provincial Tax Court of Milan, or the Tax Court, for the different VAT cases are unfavorable, then we expect to appeal to the higher courts in order to further defend our interests. However, if we are unable to successfully defend ourselves against the assessments issued by the ITA, we may be requested to pay to the ITA an amount ranging from €2.9 million to €9.4 million, or approximately $3.7 million to $12.2 million converted using the currency exchange rate as of December 31, 2011, plus collection fees, notification expenses and additional interest for the period lapsed between the date in which the assessments were issued and the date of effective payment. On February 2, 2011, we paid to the ITA the required deposit in respect of the 2005 VAT in the amount of €1.5 million, or approximately $2.1 million converted using the currency exchange rate as of February 2, 2011. On March 4, 2011, we paid to the ITA the required deposit in respect of the 2006 VAT in the amount of €0.4 million, or approximately $0.6 million converted using the currency exchange rate as of March 4, 2011. On March 25, 2011, we paid to the Italian collection agent an additional €0.1 million, or approximately $0.1 million converted using the currency exchange rate as of March 25, 2011. On September 26, 2011, we paid to the ITA the required deposit in respect of the 2007 VAT in the amount of €0.1 million or approximately $0.1 million converted using the currency exchange rate as of September 26, 2011. Further information pertaining to these cases can be found in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” and is incorporated by reference herein. 27 Table of Contents Our financial condition may be harmed if third parties default in the performance of contractual obligations. Our business is dependent on the performance by third parties of their responsibilities under contractual relationships and if third parties default on their performance of their contractual obligations, we could suffer significant financial losses and operational problems, which could in turn adversely affect our financial performance, cash flows or results of operations and may jeopardize our ability to maintain our operations. We may not realize any royalties, milestone payments or other benefits under the License and Co-Development Agreement entered into with Novartis Pharmaceutical Company Ltd. We have entered into a license and co-development agreement related to OPAXIO and Pixuvri with Novartis pursuant to which Novartis received an exclusive worldwide license for the development and commercialization of OPAXIO and an option to enter into an exclusive worldwide license to develop and commercialize Pixuvri. We will not receive any royalty or milestone payments under this agreement unless Novartis exercises its option related to Pixuvri and we are able to reach a definitive agreement or Novartis elects to participate in the development and commercialization of OPAXIO. Novartis is under no obligation to make such election and enter into a definitive license agreement or exercise such right and may never do so. In addition, even if Novartis exercises such rights, any royalties and milestone payments we may be eligible to receive from Novartis are subject to the receipt of the necessary regulatory approvals and the attainment of certain sales levels. In the event Novartis does not elect to participate in the development of OPAXIO or Pixuvri, we may not be able to find another suitable partner for the commercialization and development of those products, which may have an adverse effect on our ability to bring those drugs to market. In addition, we would need to obtain a release from Novartis prior to entering into any agreement to develop and commercialize Pixuvri or OPAXIO with a third party. We may never receive the necessary regulatory approvals and our products may not reach the necessary sales levels to generate royalty or milestone payments even if Novartis elects to exercise its option with regard to Pixuvri and enter into a definitive license agreement or to participate in the development and commercialization of OPAXIO. Novartis has the right under the agreement in its sole discretion to terminate such agreement at any time upon written notice to us. Further information about the status of the regulatory approval for Pixuvri can be found in “Risk Factors—Factors Affecting Our Operating Results and Financial Condition—We cannot guarantee that we will obtain regulatory approval to manufacture or market any of our drug candidates.” We cannot guarantee that we will obtain regulatory approval to manufacture or market any of our drug candidates. Obtaining regulatory approval to market drugs to treat cancer is expensive, difficult and risky. Preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or preclude regulatory approval. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Information about the status of the regulatory approval of Pixuvri can be found in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under Part I, Item 1 “Business, Overview” and is incorporated by reference herein. In March 2011, we initiated a randomized pivotal trial of Pixuvri for the treatment of relapsed or refractory DLBCL. This clinical trial, referred to as PIX306 or PIX-R, is now open to patient enrollment. PIX-R will compare a combination of Pixuvri plus rituximab to a combination of gemcitabine plus rituximab in patients with relapsed or refractory DLBCL who have received one to three prior lines of therapy. We cannot predict the outcome of PIX-R or whether PIX-R will serve as either a post-marketing commitment trial or as a pivotal trial. Moreover, the FDA may request that we conduct more clinical trials in addition to PIX-R to obtain FDA approval of our NDA for Pixuvri and we do not know what this trial will cost or how long it would take to execute this study and provide additional information to the FDA. We may also need to take additional steps to obtain regulatory approval of Pixuvri. The expense to design and conduct clinical trials are substantial and any additional clinical trials or actions we may need to pursue to obtain approval of Pixuvri may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 28 Table of Contents We may be delayed, limited or precluded from obtaining regulatory approval of OPAXIO as a maintenance therapy for advanced-stage ovarian cancer and as a radiation sensitizer. Our future financial success depends in part on obtaining regulatory approval of OPAXIO. We are currently focusing our development of OPAXIO as a potential maintenance therapy for women with advanced-stage ovarian cancer who achieve a complete remission following first-line therapy with paclitaxel and carboplatin and as a radiation sensitizer. This study, the GOG0212 trial, is under the control of the GOG and is expected to enroll 1,100 patients with 843 patients enrolled as of December 31, 2011. The GOG Data Monitoring Committee plans to conduct the first interim analysis of overall survival and, based on feedback provided by the GOG, that interim analysis is currently expected in 2013. If successful, we could utilize those results to form the basis of an NDA for OPAXIO. However, prior clinical trials for OPAXIO have not been successful. In March 2005, we announced the results of STELLAR 3, and in May 2005, we announced the results of STELLAR 2 and 4, our phase III clinical trials of OPAXIO in non-small cell lung cancer, or NSCLC. All three trials failed to achieve their primary endpoints of superior overall survival compared to current marketed agents for treating NSCLC. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the GOG0212 will provide compelling evidence or any positive results, which would preclude any submission of an NDA to the FDA. In addition, we cannot predict the outcome of the GOG0212 study and that study may not demonstrate or be adequate to support regulatory approval of OPAXIO by the FDA. In March 2008, we submitted an MAA to the EMA for first-line treatment of patients with advanced NSCLC who are poor performance status, or PS2, based on a non-inferior survival and improved side effect profile which we believe was demonstrated in our previous clinical trials. The application was based on a positive opinion we received from the EMA’s Scientific Advice Working Party; the EMA agreed that switching the primary endpoint from superiority to non-inferiority is feasible if the retrospective justification provided in the marketing application is adequate. In September 2009, we notified the EMA of our decision to withdraw the MAA and we refocused our resources on the approval of OPAXIO for its potential superiority indication in maintenance therapy for ovarian cancer and as a radiation sensitizer in the treatment of esophageal cancer. We are subject to extensive government regulation. We are subject to rigorous and extensive regulation by the FDA in the United States and by comparable agencies in other states and countries, including the EMA’s review of our MAA for Pixuvri. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements could result in various adverse consequences, including possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, withdrawal of approved products from the market, product seizures, injunctions, regulatory restrictions on our business and sales activities, monetary penalties, or criminal prosecution. Our products may not be marketed in the United States until they have been approved by the FDA and may not be marketed in other countries until they have received approval from the appropriate agencies. None of our current product candidates have received approval for marketing in any country. Information about the status of the regulatory approval of Pixuvri can be found in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under Part I, Item 1 “Business, Overview” and is incorporated by reference herein. In March 2011, we initiated a randomized pivotal trial of Pixuvri for the treatment of relapsed or refractory DLBCL. This clinical trial, referred to as PIX306 or PIX-R, is now open to patient enrollment. PIX-R will compare a combination of Pixuvri plus rituximab to a combination of gemcitabine plus rituximab in patients with relapsed or refractory DLBCL who have received one to three prior lines of therapy. We cannot predict the outcome of PIX-R or whether PIX-R will serve as either a post-marketing commitment trial or as a pivotal trial. Moreover, the FDA may request that we conduct more clinical trials in addition to PIX-R to obtain FDA approval of our NDA for Pixuvri and we do not know what this trial will cost or how long it would take to execute this study and provide additional information to the FDA. We may also need to take additional steps to obtain regulatory approval of Pixuvri. The expense to design and conduct clinical trials are substantial and any additional clinical trials or actions we may need to pursue to obtain approval of Pixuvri may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Obtaining regulatory approval requires substantial time, effort and financial resources, and we may not be able to obtain approval of any of our products on a timely basis, or at all. In addition, data obtained from preclinical and clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations, and government regulators and our collaborators may not agree with our interpretation of our clinical trial results. If our products are not approved quickly enough to provide net revenues to defray our debt and operating expenses, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed. In the event that we receive marketing approval for any of our product candidates, we will be subject to numerous regulations and statutes regulating the manner of selling and obtaining reimbursement for those products. For example, federal statutes generally prohibit providing certain discounts and payments to physicians to encourage them to prescribe our product. Violations of such regulations or statutes may result in treble damages, criminal or civil penalties, fines or exclusion of us or our employees from participation in federal and state health care programs. Although we have policies prohibiting violations of relevant regulations and statutes, unauthorized actions of our employees or consultants, or unfavorable interpretations of such regulations or statutes may result in third parties or regulatory agencies bringing legal proceedings or enforcement actions against us. Because we will likely need to develop a new sales force for any future marketed products, we may have a greater risk of such violations from lack of adequate training or experience. The expense to retain and pay legal counsel and consultants to defend against any such proceedings would be substantial, and together with the diversion of management’s time and attention to assist in any such defense, may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, both before and after approval, our contract manufacturers and our products are subject to numerous regulatory requirements covering, among other things, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution and export. Manufacturing processes must conform to current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMPs. The FDA, EMA and other regulatory authorities periodically inspect manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMPs. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort to maintain compliance. Failure to comply with FDA, EMA or other applicable regulations may cause us to curtail or stop the manufacture of such products until we obtain regulatory compliance. The marketing and promotion of pharmaceuticals is also heavily regulated, particularly with regard to prohibitions on the promotion of products for off-label uses. In April 2007, we paid a civil penalty of $10.6 million and entered into a settlement agreement with the United States Attorney’s Office for the Western District of Washington arising out of their investigation into certain of our prior marketing practices relating to TRISENOX, which was divested to Cephalon Inc. in July 2005. As part of that settlement agreement and in connection with the acquisition of Zevalin, we also entered into a corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, which required us to establish a compliance committee and compliance program and adopt a formal code of conduct. We face direct and intense competition from our competitors in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, and we may not compete successfully against them. Competition in the oncology market is intense and is accentuated by the rapid pace of technological development. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter the market. Our competitors in the United States and elsewhere are numerous and include, among others, major multinational pharmaceutical companies, specialized biotechnology companies and universities and other research institutions. Specifically: • If we are successful in bringing Pixuvri to market, Pixuvri will face competition from currently marketed anthracyclines, such as mitoxantrone (Novantrone®), and new anti-cancer drugs with reduced toxicity that may be developed and marketed. 30 Table of Contents • If we are successful in bringing OPAXIO to market, we will face direct competition from oncology-focused multinational corporations. OPAXIO will compete with other taxanes. Many oncology-focused multinational corporations currently market or are developing taxanes, epothilones, and other cytotoxic agents, which inhibit cancer cells by a mechanism similar to taxanes, or similar products. Such corporations include, among others, Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and others, which market paclitaxel and generic forms of paclitaxel; Sanofi-Aventis, which markets docetaxel; Genentech, Roche and OSI Pharmaceuticals, which market Tarceva™; Genentech and Roche, which market Avastin™; Eli Lilly, which markets Alimta®; and Celgene, which markets Abraxane™. In addition, other companies such as Telik, Inc. are also developing products, which could compete with OPAXIO. • If we are successful in bringing tosedostat to market, tosedostat will face competition from currently marketed products, such as Dacogen®, Vidaza®, Clolar®, Revlimid®, Thalomid® and new anti-cancer drugs that may be developed and marketed. • If we are successful in bringing brostallicin to market, we will face direct competition from other minor groove binding agents including Yondelis®, which is currently developed by PharmaMar and has received Authorization of Commercialization from the European Commission for soft tissue sarcoma. Many of our competitors, particularly the multinational pharmaceutical companies, either alone or together with their collaborators, have substantially greater financial resources and substantially larger development and marketing teams than us. In addition, many of our competitors, either alone or together with their collaborators, have significantly greater experience than we do in developing, manufacturing and marketing products. As a result, these companies’ products might come to market sooner or might prove to be more effective, less expensive, have fewer side effects or be easier to administer than ours. In any such case, sales of our current or future products would likely suffer and we might never recoup the significant investments we are making to develop these product candidates. Uncertainty regarding third-party reimbursement and healthcare cost containment initiatives may limit our returns. The ongoing efforts of governmental and third-party payors to contain or reduce the cost of healthcare may affect our ability to commercialize our products successfully. Governmental and other third-party payors continue to attempt to contain healthcare costs by: • challenging the prices charged for health care products and services; • limiting both coverage and the amount of reimbursement for new therapeutic products; • denying or limiting coverage for products that are approved by the FDA or the EMA, but are considered experimental or investigational by third-party payors; • refusing in some cases to provide coverage when an approved product is used for disease indications in a way that has not received FDA or EMA marketing approval; and • denying coverage altogether. The continuing efforts of government and insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other payers of healthcare costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may affect our future revenues and profitability, and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborative partners and the availability of capital. In the United States, given the comprehensive health care reform legislation that the President signed into law on March 23, 2010, under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (HR 3590), or the PPACA, the U.S. Congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of healthcare services and products and on the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid systems. While we cannot predict whether any such legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the announcement or adoption of these proposals could significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services 31 Table of Contents and products, resulting in lower prices and reducing demand for our products. In addition, in almost all European markets, pricing and choice of prescription pharmaceuticals are subject to governmental control. Therefore, the price of our products and their reimbursement in Europe will be determined by national regulatory authorities. Even if we succeed in bringing any of our proposed products to the market, they may not be considered cost-effective and third-party reimbursement might not be available or sufficient. If adequate third-party coverage is not available, we may not be able to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in research and product development. In addition, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change in ways adverse to us before or after any of our proposed products are approved for marketing. If users of our products are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payers, or if new restrictive legislation is adopted, market acceptance of our products may be limited and we may not achieve anticipated revenues. Our ability to commercialize our products will depend in part on the extent to which appropriate reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatment are obtained by governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations, or HMOs. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical care. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the United States and the concurrent growth of organizations such as HMOs, which could control or significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative proposals to further reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices for our products if approved for commercialization. The cost containment measures that health care payers and providers are instituting and the effect of any health care reform could materially harm our ability to sell our products at a profit. Products that appear promising in research and development may be delayed or fail to reach later stages of development or the market. The successful development of pharmaceutical products is highly uncertain and obtaining regulatory approval to market drugs to treat cancer is expensive, difficult and risky. Products that appear promising in research and development may be delayed or fail to reach later stages of development or the market for several reasons, including: • clinical trial results may show the product to be less effective than desired or to have harmful or problematic side effects; • preclinical tests may show the product to be toxic or lack efficacy in animal models; • failure to receive the necessary U.S. and international regulatory approvals or a delay in receiving such approvals; • difficulties in formulating the product, scaling the manufacturing process or getting approval for manufacturing; • manufacturing costs, pricing, reimbursement issues or other factors may make the product uneconomical to commercialize; • other companies or people have or may have proprietary rights to a product candidate, such as patent rights, and will not let the product candidate be sold on reasonable terms, or at all; or • the product candidate is not cost effective in light of existing therapeutics. Preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could 32 Table of Contents delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, any significant problem in the production of our products, such as the inability of a supplier to provide raw materials or supplies used to manufacture our products, equipment obsolescence, malfunctions or failures, product quality or contamination problems, or changes in regulatory requirements or standards that require modifications to our manufacturing process could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval which could harm our business, financial condition and results or the trading price of our securities. There can be no assurance as to whether or when we will receive regulatory approvals for our products. If any of our license agreements for intellectual property underlying Pixuvri, OPAXIO, tosedostat, brostallicin, bisplatinates or any other products are terminated, we may lose the right to develop or market that product. We have licensed intellectual property, including patent applications relating to intellectual property for Pixuvri, tosedostat, brostallicin and bisplatinates. We have also in-licensed the intellectual property for our drug delivery technology relating to OPAXIO which uses polymers that are linked to drugs, known as polymer-drug conjugates. Some of our product development programs depend on our ability to maintain rights under these licenses. Each licensor has the power to terminate its agreement with us if we fail to meet our obligations under these licenses. We may not be able to meet our obligations under these licenses. If we default under any license agreement, we may lose our right to market and sell any products based on the licensed technology. We hold rights under numerous patents that protect inventions originating from our research and development, and the expiration of any one or more of these patents may allow our competitors to copy the inventions that are currently protected. We dedicate significant resources to protecting our intellectual property, which is important to our business. We have filed numerous patent applications in the U.S. and various other countries seeking protection of inventions originating from our research and development and we have also obtained rights to various patents and patent applications under licenses with third parties. Patents have been issued on many of these applications. We have pending patent applications or issued patents in the U.S. and foreign countries directed to OPAXIO, Pixuvri, tosedostat, brostallicin and other product candidates. However, the lives of these patents are limited. Patents for the individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of the patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The OPAXIO-directed patents will expire on various dates ranging from 2017 through 2018. The Pixuvri-directed patents will expire in 2014. The tosedostat-directed patents will expire in 2017. The brostallicin-directed patents will expire on various dates ranging from 2017 to 2021. The patent expiration ranges given above are only for U.S. issued patents. The Pixuvri-directed patents in Europe will expire between 2012 and 2015. Although such patent expirations do not account for potential extensions that may be available in certain countries (for example, certain Pixuvri-directed patents may be subject to possible patent-term extensions that could provide extensions through 2019 in the U.S. and 2021 in Europe), there can be no assurance that such extensions will be obtained. The expiration of these patents may allow our competitors to copy the inventions that are currently protected and better compete with us. If there is an adverse outcome in the securities class actions and shareholder derivative litigation that have been filed against us, our business may be harmed. In March 2010, three purported securities class action complaints were filed against the Company and certain of its officers and directors in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington. On August 2, 2010, Judge Marsha Pechman consolidated the actions, appointed lead plaintiffs, and approved lead plaintiffs’ counsel. On September 27, 2010, lead plaintiff filed an amended consolidated complaint, captioned Sabbagh v. Cell Therapeutics, Inc. (Case No. 2:10-cv-00414-MJP), naming the Company, Dr. James A. Bianco, Louis A. Bianco, and Craig W. Philips as defendants. The amended consolidated complaint alleges that defendants violated the federal securities laws by making certain alleged false and misleading statements related to the FDA approval process for pixantrone. The action seeks damages on behalf of purchasers of the Company’s stock during a purported class period of March 25, 2008 through March 22, 2010. On October 27, 2010, 33 Table of Contents defendants moved to dismiss the amended consolidated complaint. On February 4, 2011, the Court denied in large part the defendants’ motion. Defendants answered the amended consolidated complaint on March 28, 2011, and discovery commenced, with trial set for June 25, 2012. On December 14, 2011, the parties filed a letter with the Court indicating they had agreed to the general terms of a settlement, and asking the Court to remove the case deadlines from the Court calendar. On February 14, 2012, the parties filed a Motion for Preliminary Approval of the Stipulation of Settlement and related documents with the Court. The negotiated terms of the settlement include a $19 million payment to plaintiffs. In April 2010, three shareholder derivative complaints were filed against the Company and certain of its officers and directors in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington. These derivative complaints allege that defendants breached their fiduciary duties to the Company by making or failing to prevent the issuance of certain alleged false and misleading statements related to the FDA approval process for pixantrone. The allegations in the derivative actions are substantially similar to those in the securities action. On May 10, 2010, Judge Marsha Pechman consolidated the shareholder derivative actions under the caption Shackleton v. Bauer (Case No. 2:10-cv-00414-MJP), and appointed the law firms of Robbins Umeda LLP and Federman & Sherwood as co-lead counsel for derivative plaintiffs. Three more derivative complaints were filed in June, July and October 2010, and they have also been consolidated with Shackleton v. Bauer. The parties have agreed to coordinate discovery in the derivative and securities actions. Pursuant to the parties’ stipulation, the Court has stayed the deadline for the derivative plaintiffs to file an amended complaint until March 12, 2012 (45 days after the scheduled close of discovery in the securities class action), and briefing on any motion to dismiss will follow. The court has set a trial date of December 3, 2012 for the shareholder derivative action. The litigation is at an early stage and the company has asserted meritorious defenses, so no probability of loss can be predicted at this time. As with any litigation proceeding, we cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of pending litigation. Furthermore, we may have to incur substantial expenses in connection with these lawsuits. In the event of an adverse outcome, our business could be materially harmed. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, our competitive position could be harmed. Development and protection of our intellectual property are critical to our business. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to practice our technologies. Our success depends in part on our ability to: • obtain patent protection for our products or processes both in the United States and other countries; • protect trade secrets; and • prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. When polymers are linked, or conjugated, to drugs, the results are referred to as polymer-drug conjugates. We are developing drug delivery technology that links chemotherapy to biodegradable polymers. For example, OPAXIO is paclitaxel, the active ingredient in Taxol®, one of the world’s best selling cancer drugs, linked to polyglutamate. We may not receive a patent for all of our polymer-drug conjugates and we may be challenged by the holder of a patent covering the underlying drug and/or methods for its use or manufacture. The patent position of biopharmaceutical firms generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has not established a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims that it will allow in biotechnology patents. If it allows broad claims, the number and cost of patent interference proceedings in the United States and the risk of infringement litigation may increase. If it allows narrow claims, the risk of infringement may decrease, but the value of our rights under our patents, licenses and patent applications may also decrease. Patent applications in which we have rights may never issue as patents and the claims of any issued patents may not afford meaningful protection for our technologies or 34 Table of Contents products. In addition, patents issued to us or our licensors may be challenged and subsequently narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. Litigation, interference proceedings or other governmental proceedings that we may become involved in with respect to our proprietary technologies or the proprietary technology of others could result in substantial cost to us. Patent litigation is widespread in the biotechnology industry, and any patent litigation could harm our business. Costly litigation might be necessary to protect a patent position or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights, and we may not have the required resources to pursue any such litigation or to protect our patent rights. Any adverse outcome in litigation with respect to the infringement or validity of any patents owned by third parties could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease using a product or technology. We also rely upon trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation to remain competitive. Third parties may independently develop such know-how or otherwise obtain access to our technology. While we require our employees, consultants and corporate partners with access to proprietary information to enter into confidentiality agreements, these agreements may not be honored. Our products could infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to engage in costly litigation and, if unsuccessful, could cause us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from selling our products. We attempt to monitor patent filings for patents that may be relevant to our products and product candidates in an effort to guide the design and development of our products to avoid infringement, but have not conducted an exhaustive search. We may not be able to successfully challenge the validity of these patents and could be required to pay substantial damages, possibly including treble damages, for past infringement and attorneys’ fees if it is ultimately determined that our products infringe a third-party’s patents. Further, we may be prohibited from selling our products before we obtain a license, which, if available at all, may require us to pay substantial royalties. Moreover, third parties may challenge the patents that have been issued or licensed to us. Even if infringement claims against us are without merit, or if we challenge the validity of issued patents, lawsuits take significant time, may be expensive and may divert management attention from other business concerns. We could fail in financing efforts or be delisted from NASDAQ if we fail to receive shareholder approval when needed. We are required under the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules to obtain shareholder approval for any issuance of additional equity securities that would comprise more than 20% of the total shares of our common stock outstanding before the issuance of such securities sold at a discount to the greater of book or market value in an offering that is not deemed to be a “public offering” by the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules or NASDAQ. Funding of our operations in the future may require issuance of additional equity securities that would comprise more than 20% of the total shares of our common stock outstanding, but we might not be successful in obtaining the required shareholder approval for such an issuance, particularly in light of the difficulties we have experienced in obtaining a quorum and holding shareholder meetings as outlined above. If we are unable to obtain financing due to shareholder approval difficulties, such failure may harm our ability to continue operations. We may be unable to obtain the raw materials necessary to produce our OPAXIO product candidate in sufficient quantity to meet demand when and if such product is approved. We may not be able to continue to purchase the materials necessary to produce OPAXIO, including paclitaxel, in adequate volume and quality. Paclitaxel is derived from certain varieties of yew trees and the supply of paclitaxel is controlled by a limited number of companies. We purchase the raw materials paclitaxel and polyglutamic acid from single sources. Should the paclitaxel or polyglutamic acid purchased from our sources prove to be insufficient in quantity or quality, should a supplier fail to deliver in a timely fashion or at all, or should these relationships terminate, we may not be able to qualify and obtain a sufficient supply from alternate sources on acceptable terms, or at all. 35 Table of Contents Our dependence on third-party manufacturers means that we do not always have direct control over the manufacture, testing or distribution of our products. We do not currently have internal analytical laboratory or manufacturing facilities to allow the testing or production and distribution of drug products in compliance with cGMPs. Because we do not directly control our suppliers, these vendors may not be able to provide us with finished product when we need it. We will be dependent upon these third parties to supply us in a timely manner with products manufactured in compliance with cGMPs or similar manufacturing standards imposed by United States and/or foreign regulatory authorities where our products will be tested and/or marketed. While the FDA, EMA and other regulatory authorities maintain oversight for cGMP compliance of drug manufacturers, contract manufacturers and contract service providers may at times violate cGMPs. The FDA, EMA and other regulatory authorities may take action against a contract manufacturer who violates cGMPs. Failure to comply with FDA, EMA or other applicable regulations may cause us to curtail or stop the manufacture of such products until we obtain regulatory compliance. In addition, one of our other products under development, OPAXIO, has a complex manufacturing process and supply chain, which may prevent us from obtaining a sufficient supply of drug product for the clinical trials and commercial activities currently planned or underway on a timely basis, if at all. The active pharmaceutical ingredients and drug products for Pixuvri, tosedostat and brostallicin are manufactured by a single vendor. Finished product manufacture and distribution for both Pixuvri and brostallicin are to be manufactured and distributed by different single vendors. We are currently disputing our right to cancel the exclusive manufacturing contract between us and the former manufacturer of Pixuvri. We assert multiple grounds for terminating this exclusive manufacturing agreement, which the former manufacturer disputes. The former manufacturer has asserted that we do not have the right to terminate the manufacturing contracts and has filed a lawsuit in the Court of Milan to compel us to source Pixuvri from that manufacturer. A hearing was held on January 21, 2010 to discuss preliminary matters and set a schedule for future filings and hearings. On November 11, 2010 a hearing was held aimed at examining and discussing the requests for evidence submitted by the parties in the briefs filed pursuant to article 183, paragraph 6 of the Italian code of civil procedure. At the hearing of November 11, the judge declared that the case does not require any discovery or evidentiary phase, as it may be decided on the basis of the documents and pleadings filed by the parties. The judge fixed accordingly the last hearing for October 11, 2012, for the parties to definitively submit to the judge their requests. Even if our drug candidates are successful in clinical trials, we may not be able to successfully commercialize them. Since our inception in 1991, we have dedicated substantially all of our resources to the research and development of our technologies and related compounds. All of our compounds currently are in research or development, and have not received marketing approval. Prior to commercialization, each product candidate requires significant research, development and preclinical testing and extensive clinical investigation before submission of any regulatory application for marketing approval. The development of anti-cancer drugs, including those we are currently developing, is unpredictable and subject to numerous risks. Potential products that appear to be promising at early stages of development may not reach the market for a number of reasons including that they may: • be found ineffective or cause harmful side effects during preclinical testing or clinical trials; • fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals; • be difficult to manufacture on a scale necessary for commercialization; • be uneconomical to produce; • fail to achieve market acceptance; or • be precluded from commercialization by proprietary rights of third parties. 36 Table of Contents The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect the commercialization of our products. Products, if introduced, may not be successfully marketed and/or may not achieve customer acceptance. If we fail to commercialize products or if our future products do not achieve significant market acceptance, we will not likely generate significant revenues or become profitable. If we do not successfully develop our product candidates into marketable products, we may be unable to generate significant revenue or become profitable. We divested our commercial product, TRISENOX, in July 2005 and fully divested our commercial product, Zevalin, in March 2009. Currently, we do not have a marketed product, and unless we are able to develop one of our product candidates, such as Pixuvri, into an approved commercial product, we will not generate any significant revenues from product sales, royalty payments, license fees or otherwise. Pixuvri, OPAXIO, tosedostat and brostallicin are currently in clinical trials and bisplatinates are in preclinical development; the development and clinical trials of these products may not be successful and, even if they are, we may not be successful in developing any of them into a commercial product. For example, our STELLAR phase III clinical trials for OPAXIO for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer failed to meet their primary endpoints. In addition, a number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including us, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after reporting promising results in earlier trials. We will need to commit significant time and resources to develop these and any additional product candidates. Even if our trials are viewed as successful, we may not get regulatory approval. Our product candidates will be successful only if: • our product candidates are developed to a stage that will enable us to commercialize them or sell related marketing rights to pharmaceutical companies; • we are able to commercialize product candidates in clinical development or sell the marketing rights to third parties; and • our product candidates, if developed, are approved by the regulatory authorities. We are dependent on the successful completion of these goals in order to generate revenues. The failure to generate such revenues may preclude us from continuing our research and development of these and other product candidates. If we are unable to enter into new in-licensing arrangements, our future product portfolio and potential profitability could be harmed. One component of our business strategy is in-licensing drug compounds developed by other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies or academic research laboratories. All of our product candidates in clinical and preclinical development are in-licensed from a third-party, including Pixuvri, OPAXIO, tosedostat, brostallicin and bisplatinates. Competition for new promising compounds and commercial products can be intense. If we are not able to identify future in-licensing opportunities and enter into future licensing arrangements on acceptable terms, our future product portfolio and potential profitability could be harmed. We may take longer to complete our clinical trials than we expect, or we may not be able to complete them at all. Before regulatory approval for any potential product can be obtained, we must undertake extensive clinical testing on humans to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the product. Although for planning purposes we forecast the commencement and completion of clinical trials, the actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to a number of factors. For example: • we may not obtain authorization to permit product candidates that are already in the preclinical development phase to enter the human clinical testing phase; 37 Table of Contents • the FDA or the EMA may object to proposed protocols; • there may be shortages of available product supplies or the materials that are used to manufacture the products; • the quality or stability of the product candidates may fall below acceptable standards; • authorized preclinical or clinical testing may require significantly more time, resources or expertise than originally expected to be necessary; • clinical testing may not show potential products to be safe and efficacious and, as with many drugs, may fail to demonstrate the desired safety and efficacy characteristics in human clinical trials; • clinical testing may show that potential products are not appropriate for the specific indication for which they are being tested; • the results from preclinical studies and early clinical trials may not be indicative of the results that will be obtained in later-stage clinical trials; • we or regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials at any time on the basis that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons; and • the rates of patient recruitment and enrollment of patients who meet trial eligibility criteria may be lower than anticipated, which is a function of many factors, including the number of patients with the relevant conditions, the nature of the clinical testing, the proximity of patients to clinical testing centers, the eligibility criteria for tests as well as competition with other clinical testing programs involving the same patient profile but different treatments. We have limited experience in conducting clinical trials. We expect to continue to rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, academic institutions and/or cooperative groups, to conduct, oversee and monitor clinical trials as well as to process the clinical results and manage test requests, which may result in delays or failure to complete trials if the third parties fail to perform or to meet the applicable standards. If we fail to commence, complete, experience delays in any of our present or planned clinical trials or need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned, our development costs may increase and/or our ability to commercialize our product candidates may be harmed. If delays or costs are significant, our financial results and our ability to commercialize our product candidates may be harmed. If we fail to establish and maintain collaborations or if our partners do not perform, we may be unable to develop and commercialize our product candidates. We have entered into collaborative arrangements with third-parties to develop and/or commercialize product candidates and are currently seeking additional collaborations. For example, we entered into an agreement with the GOG to perform a phase III trial of OPAXIO in patients with ovarian cancer. Additional collaborations might be necessary in order for us to fund our research and development activities and third-party manufacturing arrangements, seek and obtain regulatory approvals and successfully commercialize our existing and future product candidates. If we fail to enter into additional collaborative arrangements or fail to maintain our existing collaborative arrangements, the number of product candidates from which we could receive future revenues would decline. For example, in 2005 we sold our product TRISENOX to Cephalon and, pursuant to the terms of the purchase agreement under which TRISENOX was sold, we are entitled to receive milestone payments upon the approval by the FDA of new labeled uses for TRISENOX; however, Cephalon may decide not to submit any additional information to the FDA to apply for label expansion of TRISENOX, in which case we would not receive a milestone payment under the agreement. 38 Table of Contents Our dependence on collaborative arrangements with third parties will subject us to a number of risks that could harm our ability to develop and commercialize products, including that: • collaborative arrangements may not be on terms favorable to us; • disagreements with partners may result in delays in the development and marketing of products, termination of our collaboration agreements or time consuming and expensive legal action; • we cannot control the amount and timing of resources partners devote to product candidates or their prioritization of product candidates and partners may not allocate sufficient funds or resources to the development, promotion or marketing of our products, or may not perform their obligations as expected; • partners may choose to develop, independently or with other companies, alternative products or treatments, including products or treatments which compete with ours; • agreements with partners may expire or be terminated without renewal, or partners may breach collaboration agreements with us; • business combinations or significant changes in a partner’s business strategy might adversely affect that partner’s willingness or ability to complete its obligations to us; and • the terms and conditions of the relevant agreements may no longer be suitable. The occurrence of any of these events could harm the development or commercialization of our products. Because we base several of our drug candidates on unproven technologies, we may never develop them into commercial products. We base several of our product candidates upon novel technologies that we are using to develop drugs for the treatment of cancer. These technologies have not been proven. Furthermore, preclinical results in animal studies may not predict outcomes in human clinical trials. Our product candidates may not be proven safe or effective. If these technologies do not work, our drug candidates will not develop into commercial products. Because there is a risk of product liability associated with our products, we face potential difficulties in obtaining insurance. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of human pharmaceutical products, and we may not be able to avoid significant product liability exposure. While we have insurance covering the product use in our clinical trials for our product candidates, it is possible that we will not be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that any insurance obtained will not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Our inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or limit the commercialization of any products we develop. A successful product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage could exceed our net worth. Since we use hazardous materials in our business, we may be subject to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. We are subject to international, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such materials and certain waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by the regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated completely. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result 39 Table of Contents and any such liability not covered by insurance could exceed our resources. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. We may not be able to conduct animal testing in the future, which could harm our research and development activities. Certain of our research and development activities involve animal testing. Such activities have been the subject of controversy and adverse publicity. Animal rights groups and other organizations and individuals have attempted to stop animal testing activities by pressing for legislation and regulation in these areas and by disrupting activities through protests and other means. To the extent the activities of these groups are successful, our business could be materially harmed by delaying or interrupting our research and development activities. The unfavorable outcome of litigation and other claims against us could harm our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits from time to time, some of which arise in the ordinary course of our business. Adverse outcomes in some or all of such pending cases may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us. While we currently believe that resolution of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or trading price of our securities, the ultimate outcome of litigation and other claims is subject to inherent uncertainties, and our view of these matters may change in the future. It is possible that our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed in any period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. Our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by public health issues, wars and other military action, as well as terrorist attacks and threats and government responses thereto, especially if any such actions were directed at us or our facilities or customers. Public health issues, terrorist attacks in the United States and elsewhere, government responses thereto, and military actions in Afghanistan and elsewhere, may disrupt our operations or those of our customers and suppliers and may affect the availability of materials needed to manufacture our products or the means to transport those materials to manufacturing facilities and finished products to customers. A health pandemic could cause damage or disruption to international commerce by creating economic and political uncertainties that may have a strong negative impact on the global economy, us, and our customers or suppliers. Should a severe public health issues arise, we could be negatively impacted by the need for more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in the availability of freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between various regions and disruptions in the operations of our customers or suppliers. The long-term effects public health issues, the terrorist attacks, and the ongoing war on terrorism on our business and on the global economy remain unknown. In addition, any of these events could increase volatility in the United States and world financial markets which may depress the price of our common stock and may limit the capital resources available to us or our customers or suppliers, which could result in decreased orders from customers, less favorable financing terms from suppliers, and scarcity or increased costs of materials and components of our products. Additionally, terrorist attacks directly upon us may significantly disrupt our ability to conduct our business. Any of these occurrences could have a significant impact on our operating results, revenues and costs and may result in increased volatility of the trading price of our securities. Higher health care costs could harm our business. We will be impacted by the recent passage of the PPACA. Under the PPACA, we may be required to amend our health care plans to, among other things, provide affordable coverage, as defined in the PPACA, to all employees, or otherwise be subject to a payment per employee based on the affordability criteria in the Act: cover adult children of our employees to age 26; delete lifetime limits; and delete pre-existing condition 40 Table of Contents limitations. Many of these requirements will be phased in over a period of time. Additionally, some states and localities have passed state and local laws mandating the provision of certain levels of health benefits by some employers. Increased health care costs could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related To the Securities Markets The market price of our common stock is extremely volatile, which may affect our ability to raise capital in the future and may subject the value of your investment in our securities to sudden decreases. The market price for securities of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including ours, historically has been highly volatile, and the market from time to time has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. For example, during the twelve month period ended March 2, 2012, our stock price has ranged from a low of $0.95 to a high of $3.30. Fluctuations in the trading price or liquidity of our common stock may harm the value of your investment in our common stock. Factors that may have a significant impact on the market price and marketability of our securities include: • announcements by us or others of results of preclinical testing and clinical trials and regulatory actions; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial therapeutic products by us, our collaborative partners or our present or potential competitors; • our issuance of additional debt, equity or other securities, which we need to pursue in 2012 to generate additional funds to cover our outstanding obligations and operating expenses; • our quarterly operating results; • developments or disputes concerning patent or other proprietary rights; • developments in our relationships with collaborative partners; • acquisitions or divestitures; • litigation and government proceedings; • adverse legislation, including changes in governmental regulation; • third-party reimbursement policies; • changes in securities analysts’ recommendations; • short selling; • changes in health care policies and practices; • halting or suspension of trading in our common stock by NASDAQ, CONSOB or the Borsa Italiana; • economic and other external factors; and • general market conditions. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. For example, in the case of our company, we and certain of our officers and directors are named as defendants in purported securities class action and shareholder derivative lawsuits brought on behalf of a putative class of purchasers of our securities from March 25, 2008 through March 22, 2010. These lawsuits seek unspecified damages and, as with any litigation proceeding, we cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of pending litigation. Furthermore, we may have to incur substantial expenses in connection with these lawsuits and our management’s attention and resources could be diverted from operating our business as we respond to the litigation. We maintain significant insurance to cover these risks for us and our 41 Table of Contents directors and officers, but our insurance is subject to high deductibles to reduce premium expense, and there is no guarantee that the insurance will cover any specific claim that we currently face or may face in the future, or that it will be adequate to cover all potential liabilities and damages. Shares of common stock are equity securities and are subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness. Shares of our common stock are common equity interests. This means that our common stock ranks junior to any outstanding shares of our preferred stock that we may issue in the future to our indebtedness and to all creditor claims and other non-equity claims against us and our assets available to satisfy claims on us, including claims in a bankruptcy or similar proceeding. Our existing and future indebtedness and our preferred stock may restrict payment of dividends on our common stock. Additionally, unlike indebtedness, where principal and interest customarily are payable on specified due dates, in the case of our common stock, (i) dividends are payable only when and if declared by our board of directors or a duly authorized committee of our board of directors, and (ii) as a corporation, we are restricted to making dividend payments and redemption payments out of legally available assets. We have never paid a dividend on our common stock and have no current intention to pay dividends in the future. Furthermore, our common stock places no restrictions on our business or operations or on our ability to incur indebtedness or engage in any transactions, subject only to the voting rights available to shareholders generally. The market price of our common stock may be harmed by market conditions affecting the stock markets in general, including price and trading fluctuations on The NASDAQ Capital Market. The market price of our common stock may be harmed by market conditions affecting the stock markets in general, including price and trading fluctuations on The NASDAQ Capital Market. These conditions may result in (i) volatility in the level of, and fluctuations in, the market prices of stocks generally and, in turn, our shares of common stock, and (ii) sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, in each case that could be unrelated or disproportionate to changes in our operating performance. There may be future sales or other dilution of our equity, which may harm the market price of shares of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, shares of common stock or preferred stock, or any substantially similar securities. The market price of our shares of common stock or preferred stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market, or the perception that such sales could occur in the future. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, in our shareholder rights plan, or rights plan, and under Washington law could make removal of incumbent management or an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our shareholders, more difficult. Provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of deterring or delaying attempts by our shareholders to remove or replace management, to commence proxy contests, or to effect changes in control. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors so that only approximately one third of our board of directors is elected each year; • elimination of cumulative voting in the election of directors; • procedures for advance notification of shareholder nominations and proposals; 42 Table of Contents • the ability of our board of directors to amend our amended and restated bylaws without shareholder approval; and • the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without shareholder approval upon the terms and conditions and with the rights, privileges and preferences as the board of directors may determine. Pursuant to our rights plan, an acquisition of 20% or more of our common stock could result in the exercisability of the preferred stock purchase right accompanying each share of our common stock (except those held by a 20% shareholder, which become null and void), thereby entitling the holder to receive upon exercise, in lieu of a number of units of preferred stock, that number of shares of our common stock having a market value of two times the exercise price of the right. The existence of our rights plan could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us and may inhibit a change in control that some, or a majority, of our shareholders might believe to be in their best interest or that could give our shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market prices for their shares. In addition, as a Washington corporation, we are subject to Washington law which imposes restrictions on some transactions between a corporation and certain significant shareholders. These provisions, alone or together, could have the effect of deterring or delaying changes in incumbent management, proxy contests or changes in control. Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 