Risk Factors: Other Risks Associated with our Business — If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, we may lose our competitive position and future revenues” for a discussion of additional risks related to intellectual property rights. Employees As of December 31, 2008 and 2007 we had 46 and 32 full-time employees, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, we had 15 sales force representatives. In January 2009 we announced that we are increasing our sales force to 30 representatives in order to build upon continued positive growth trends in prescriptions of Acthar for the treatment of exacerbations associated with MS, an indication for which Acthar is already approved. We anticipate completing this phase of our sales force expansion by the end of the first quarter of 2009. Depending upon the success of the first phase of our sales force expansion, a second phase of our sales force expansion to approximately 40 representatives could occur later in 2009. Our continued success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain key employees. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement, nor have we experienced work stoppages. Website Address Our website address is http://www.questcor.com. We make available free of charge through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to these reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Financial Information Please refer to Item 6, “Selected Consolidated Financial Data,” for a review of our financial results and financial position for the five years ended December 31, 2008, and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for a review of revenue and net income (loss) for the three years ended December 31, 2008. 10 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Associated with our Current Business Substantially all of our revenue and profits are derived from Acthar. For the year ended December 31, 2008, sales of Acthar represented 99% of our total net sales. We expect to continue to rely on this product for substantially all of our revenues and profits for the foreseeable future. Also, for the year ended December 31, 2008, a significant percentage of Acthar prescriptions were for IS, which is not an approved indication for Acthar. We cannot predict whether we will continue to generate significant revenues from sales of Acthar. If the demand for Acthar declines, if competitive products are approved by the FDA, if the FDA requires us to make changes to the label of Acthar which harm our ability to market Acthar, if third-party payors refuse to provide reimbursement for purchases of Acthar, if we are forced to reduce the price for Acthar, if a greater proportion of our Acthar unit sales is comprised of product dispensed to Medicaid eligible patients and government entities where we do not expect to recognize any net sales, or if we are forced to re-negotiate important contracts or terms, our net sales from the sale of Acthar would decline. If the cost to produce Acthar increases, our gross margins on the sale of Acthar would decline. If our net sales or gross margins from the sale of Acthar decline, our ability to generate profits would be harmed. We utilize CuraScript, a third party specialty distributor, to distribute Acthar. We rely on CuraScript for all of our proceeds from sales of Acthar in the United States. The outsourcing of these functions is complex, and we may experience difficulties that could reduce, delay or stop shipments of Acthar. If we encounter such distribution problems, Acthar distribution could become disrupted, resulting in lost revenues or customer dissatisfaction. We rely on contract manufacturers to produce Acthar. Contract manufacturers may not be able to meet our needs with respect to timing, cost, quantity or quality. All of our manufacturers are sole-source manufacturers and no currently qualified alternative suppliers exist. If we are unable to contract for a sufficient supply of Acthar on acceptable terms, or if we encounter delays or difficulties in our relationships with our manufacturers, we will lose the ability to fulfill orders and thus will lose sales. Moreover, contract manufacturers that we use must continually adhere to current good manufacturing practices enforced by the FDA. If the facilities of these manufacturers cannot pass an inspection, supply would be disrupted. Failure to obtain products for sale for any reason may result in an inability to meet Acthar demand and a loss of potential revenues. We cannot predict whether the FDA will approve our sNDA for Acthar. We are continuing to pursue a Supplemental New Drug Application (“sNDA”) to the FDA to add the treatment of infantile spasms (“IS”) to the list of approved indications on the Acthar label. However, there can be no assurance as to the actual timetable for FDA action or whether the sNDA will be approved by the FDA. Additionally, even if the sNDA is approved, such approval could require various actions by the Company including modification of the existing Acthar label or the adoption of FDA-mandated risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. A significant percentage of Acthar prescriptions is for IS, which is not an approved indication for Acthar. While physicians may lawfully prescribe Acthar for IS and other off-label uses, any promotion by us for off-label uses would be unlawful. The risk associated with our inability to promote Acthar could be increased by the FDA approval of a competitive product, as we would be unable to actively counter any claims made by the sales force for such competitive product. We are aware of several competitors attempting to develop and market products that treat IS, which may reduce or eliminate our commercial opportunity. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological changes, and a number of companies are pursuing the development of pharmaceuticals and products that target the same diseases and conditions that we target. We cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of potentially competitive products or their possible effect on our sales. Certain potentially competitive products to Acthar are in various stages of 11 Table of Contents development, some of which have been filed for approval with the FDA or have been approved by regulatory authorities in other countries. Vigabatrin is a potentially competitive product that is currently approved for use in numerous countries other than the U.S. and is currently under review in the United States by the FDA for the treatment of infantile spasms. In January 2009 an Advisory Committee appointed by the FDA voted to recommend that the FDA approve Vigabatrin as a therapy for infantile spasms. If Vigabatrin is approved by the FDA and is commercially launched for IS in the United States prior to our sNDA being approved, then our sales of Acthar would likely decline. Even if our sNDA is approved by the FDA on or prior to the date of the commercial launch of Vigabatrin, our sales of Acthar could decline. Prednisone and prednisolone are the generic names for anti-inflammatory corticosteroid drugs that are used to treat various types of inflammation. One off-label use of these drugs has been to treat infantile spasms. Should more doctors prescribe prednisone or prednisolone to target the same diseases and conditions that Acthar targets, the result could be detrimental to current Acthar sales. An additional potentially competitive drug to Acthar that we are currently monitoring is Ganaxolone. Ganaxolone is currently undergoing a Phase IIb study for the treatment of infantile spasms, but is not currently approved in any jurisdiction. Ganaxolone could potentially compete with Acthar in the future should it receive the necessary FDA and regulatory approvals. Some of the companies developing competing technologies and products have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in development, manufacturing, obtaining regulatory approvals, and marketing than we do. Other smaller companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. In addition to the possibility of competitive products not based on ACTH, a competitor could seek approval for, and the FDA could approve, a generic version of Acthar. Acthar does not have any patent or other form of exclusivity protection that would legally prevent the FDA from approving a generic version. If a competitor applied to the FDA for a generic version, we would not receive any notice from the FDA about the existence of the application. We may be negatively affected by lower reimbursement levels. Our ability to generate net sales is affected by the availability of third-party reimbursement for Acthar, and our ability to generate net sales will be diminished if we fail to maintain an adequate level of reimbursement for Acthar from such third party payors. The sale of Acthar depends in part on the availability of reimbursement from third party payors such as private insurance plans. In the United States, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of state and federal proposals that limit the amount that private insurance plans may pay to reimburse the cost of drugs, including Acthar. We believe the increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has and will continue to put pressure on the price and usage of Acthar, which may also impact sales of Acthar. In addition, current third-party reimbursement policies for Acthar may change at any time. Negative changes in reimbursement or our failure to obtain reimbursement for Acthar may reduce the demand for, or the price of, Acthar, which could result in lower Acthar sales, thereby weakening our competitive position and negatively impacting our results of operations. Medicaid eligible patients and government entities may account for a greater proportion of our Acthar unit sales resulting in reduced net sales. A portion of the estimated end-user vial demand for Acthar is for patients covered under Medicaid and other government-related programs. As required by Federal regulations, we provide rebates related to Acthar dispensed to a significant percentage of Medicaid patients. In addition, certain other government-supported agencies are permitted to purchase Acthar for a nominal amount from our specialty distributor, which then charges the discount back to us. As a result of these rebates and chargebacks, we do not generate any net sales with respect to sales which are subject to rebates or chargebacks. As a result of current economic conditions, recently adopted legislation or potential future legislation, it is possible that a greater proportion of Acthar sales will be subject to these rebates and 12 Table of Contents chargebacks, reducing our net sales. Additionally, there could be changes to Medicaid regulations resulting in higher rebates and chargebacks, which would reduce our net sales further. On February 26, 2009, the U.S. President released an outline of the Administration’s budget proposals for fiscal year 2010, which begins October 1, 2009. Further detail is expected to be issued in April. The budget outline proposes that Congress should increase the amount of rebates collected from manufacturers for drugs dispensed to Medicaid patients by imposing rebates on drugs dispensed to Medicaid patients enrolled in managed care organizations, which are not subject to rebates under current law, and by increasing the amount of the minimum basic rebate. If these proposals are enacted, they would significantly increase the proportion of sales of Acthar for which we would generate no net sales revenue. Federal and/or state health care reform initiatives could negatively affect our business. Bills and regulations proposing comprehensive health care reform are being formulated in Congress and state legislatures as well as in agencies of those governmental bodies that could potentially limit pharmaceutical prices and establish mandatory or voluntary refunds. It is uncertain if any legislative proposals will be adopted and how federal, state or private payors for health care goods and services will respond to any health care reforms. Various governmental entities may focus on pharmaceutical prices by holding hearings or launching investigations regarding the pricing for drugs by specialty pharmaceutical companies such as ours and the ability of patients to obtain drugs. In July 2008, the Joint Economic Committee of Congress held hearings on the pricing of drugs for rare conditions. Should hearings or investigations occur that result in legislative changes or consent decrees regarding drug pricing, we may be forced to decrease our price that we charge for Acthar, thereby decreasing our net income. Questcor operates in a highly regulated industry. We are subject to the regulatory authority of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Food and Drug Administration and numerous other federal and state governmental agencies including state Attorney General Offices, which have become more active in investigating the business practices of pharmaceutical companies. From time to time, we receive informal requests for information from various governmental agencies. On February 25, 2009, we received a Civil Investigative Demand (“CID”) from the Attorney General of the State of Missouri, in connection with its investigation of our pricing practices with respect to Acthar under Missouri’s Merchandising Practices Act. We are in the process of responding to the CID and intend to cooperate with Missouri’s Attorney General Office, as we have with respect to government inquiries of all types. There can be no assurance that these types of informal requests for information or investigations will not have a material adverse effect on our business. The current economic environment may impact our business. The current economic environment presents us with several potential challenges. As a result of the current credit and financial market conditions, third-party payors such as private insurance companies may be unable to satisfy their reimbursement obligations or may delay payment. State and federal reimbursement programs such as Medicaid may curtail their reimbursements due to budget cuts. In addition, the economic environment could result in more patients seeking coverage for Acthar through Medicaid, where we do not generate net sales for Acthar referrals dispensed to a significant percentage of Medicaid-covered patients. Due to the recent tightening of global credit and the disruption in the financial markets, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance of our third-party contractors, suppliers or collaborators, including CuraScript. If CuraScript is unable to satisfy its commitments to us, our business would be adversely affected. There may be a disruption or delay in the performance of our third-party manufacturers for Acthar. If such third party manufacturers are unable to satisfy their commitments to us, our business would be adversely affected. The current global economic crisis may have a negative impact on the market values of the investments in our investment portfolio. We cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and there can be no assurance that the markets for these securities will not deteriorate further or that the institutions that hold these investments will be able to meet their debt obligations at the time we may need to liquidate such investments or until such time as the investments mature. 13 Table of Contents We have a history of operating losses and have only recently generated sufficient revenue to achieve profitability. Since acquiring Acthar in July 2001, Questcor experienced several changes in strategy and management but was unable to achieve consistent profitability prior to the adoption of our Acthar-centric business model. As a result, from the time of our acquisition of Acthar through August 2007, we experienced operating losses of approximately $30 million. At the time of the adoption of our Acthar-centric business model, we had very limited financial resources and believed we had no access to the capital markets. While we generated operating profit in 2007 and 2008, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be profitable in future periods. Even with the early successful results of our new strategy, we still had an accumulated deficit of $16.4 million as of December 31, 2008. If we are unable to continue to generate profits, we could be required to seek additional funding through public or private sales of our equity securities, or through debt financings. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our existing shareholders’ ownership will be diluted. Any debt, receivables or royalty financing we enter into may involve covenants that restrict our operations. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of our assets as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, redeem our stock or make investments. Risks Associated with our Growth Initiatives Our strategy to generate Acthar revenue from other therapeutic areas might not be successful. While Acthar is already approved by the FDA for the treatment of MS, we may not be successful in promoting Acthar as a second-line treatment for MS. In January 2009, we announced an expansion of our sales force, with a plan to double the size of our sales force to 30 sales representatives. Our increasing our sales force will increase our operating expenses and there can be no assurance that we will successfully manage our sales force expansion or generate sufficient additional net sales in MS to generate an acceptable return on our investment in increasing the size of the sales force. In addition, we may not be successful in promoting Acthar as a treatment for nephrotic syndrome, another on-label indication. There is very limited data on the efficacy of Acthar in the treatment of nephrotic syndrome. It is unclear what amount of clinical or other data physicians will require prior to deciding to use Acthar in the treatment of nephrotic syndrome. Also, while there are over 50 approved indications on the Acthar label, for many of these indications it is not likely that we will be successful in generating net sales in the near future. Further, under the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, the FDA has greater authority to require sponsors to modify labels of previously approved drugs. We have a very limited pipeline of new products. Since the adoption of our Acthar-centric business model in August 2007, we have focused our research and development efforts on Acthar. Besides Acthar, our pipeline of potential new products consists of a single development program: QSC-001. In February 2009, we announced that we were seeking a partner to complete development of QSC-001. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify such a partner or successfully negotiate a license or other agreement with commercially reasonable terms. Such terms could include deferred consideration in the form of milestone payments and royalties and there can be no assurance that any such payments or royalties would actually become due to Questcor. We are also exploring conducting development efforts, or financing the development efforts of third parties, of additional pharmaceutical products addressing serious, rare conditions with unmet medical needs. Other Risks Associated with our Business The loss of our key management personnel could have an adverse impact on future operations. We are highly dependent on the services of the principal members of our senior management team, and the loss of a member of senior management could create significant disruption in our ability to provide Acthar to our customers. We do not carry key person life insurance for our senior management or other personnel. Additionally, the future potential growth and expansion of our business is expected to place increased demands on our management skills and resources. Recruiting and retaining management and operational personnel to perform sales and marketing, financial operations, business development, clinical development, regulatory affairs, quality 14 Table of Contents assurance, medical affairs and contract manufacturing in the future will also be critical to our success. We do not know if we will be able to attract and retain skilled and experienced management and operational personnel in the future on acceptable terms given the intense competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for such personnel. If we are unable to hire necessary skilled personnel in the future, our business could be harmed. We are currently subject to numerous governmental regulations and it can be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant products and processes. Without considering the impact of any proposed or future health care reform initiatives, no assurance can be given that we will remain in compliance with currently applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements for our currently marketed products or any new product once clearance or approval has been obtained. These requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling and post-marketing reporting, including adverse event reports and field alerts due to product quality concerns. Additionally, the facilities and procedures of our suppliers are subject to ongoing regulation, including periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Any product that we develop must receive all relevant regulatory approvals or clearances before it may be marketed in a particular country. A significant percentage of Acthar prescriptions is for the treatment of IS, which is not an approved indication for Acthar. While physicians may lawfully prescribe Acthar for IS and other off-label uses, any promotion by us of any off-label uses would be unlawful. Some of our practices that are intended to respond to questions from physicians with respect to off-label uses of Acthar without engaging in off-label promotion could nonetheless be construed by the FDA as off-label promotion. Although we have policies and procedures in place designed to help assure ongoing compliance with regulatory requirements regarding off-label promotion, some non-compliant actions may nonetheless occur or be deemed by regulatory authorities to have occurred. Regulatory authorities could take enforcement action against us if they believe we are promoting or have promoted our products for off-label use. Also, the label for Acthar includes a list of indications for which Acthar has not been actively promoted or prescribed for in several years, if ever. It is possible that the FDA could, in the context of reviewing our sNDA for IS or otherwise, conduct a review of the Acthar label and require us to provide data to the FDA regarding the safety and efficacy of Acthar relating to these indications. The regulatory process, which may include extensive pre-clinical studies and clinical trials of each product to establish its safety and efficacy, is uncertain, can take many years, and requires the expenditure of substantial resources, time and effort to ensure compliance with complex regulations. Should we fail to comply with applicable regulations, possible regulatory actions could include warning letters, fines, damages, injunctions, civil penalties, recalls, seizures of our products and criminal prosecution. These actions could result in, among other things, substantial modifications to our business practices and operations; refunds, recalls or a total or partial shutdown of production in one or more of our suppliers’ facilities while our suppliers remedy the alleged violation; the inability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals; and withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. Any of these events could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. In addition, data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval or clearance. In addition, delays or rejections may be encountered based upon changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development and the period of review of any application for regulatory approval or clearance for a product. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or clearances could: • stall the marketing, selling and distribution of any products that we develop, • impose significant additional costs on us, • diminish any competitive advantages that we may attain, and • decrease our ability to generate revenues and profits. 15 Table of Contents Regulatory approval, if granted, may entail limitations on the indicated uses for which a new product may be marketed that could limit the potential market for the product. Product approvals, once granted, may be withdrawn if problems occur after initial marketing. Furthermore, manufacturers of approved products are subject to pervasive review, including compliance with detailed regulations governing FDA good manufacturing practices. The FDA periodically revises the good manufacturing practices regulations and requires manufacturers to remain current with the latest regulations. In addition, we cannot predict the extent of government regulations or the impact of new governmental regulations that may result in a delay in the development, production and marketing of our products. As such, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with current or future laws or regulations. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, we may lose our competitive position and future revenues. We do not have patents on our existing commercial products. However, our success will depend in part on our ability to do the following: • obtain patents for our products and technologies, • protect trade secrets, • operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others, and • prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. We will only be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that these rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets and are otherwise protectable under applicable law. We will attempt to protect our proprietary position by filing U.S. and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary products, technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. The patent positions of biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. Patents, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Thus, any patents that we own or license from third parties for future products may not provide any protection against competitors. Pending patent applications we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties, may not result in patents being issued. Also, patent rights may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology that we have developed or we will develop. The laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition to patents for future products, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how for Acthar. We currently seek protection, in part, through confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for proprietary technology in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential and proprietary information. The parties may not comply with or may breach these agreements. Furthermore, our trade secrets may otherwise become known to, or be independently developed by competitors. Our success will further depend, in part, on our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. If our activities infringe on patents owned by others, we could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves in suits brought against a licensor or us. Should our products or technologies be found to infringe on patents issued to third parties, the manufacture, use and sale of our products could be enjoined, and we could be required to pay substantial damages. In addition, we, in connection with the development and use of our products and technologies, may be required to obtain licenses to patents or other proprietary rights of third parties, which may not be made available on terms acceptable to us. 16 Table of Contents We may not be able to fully utilize the benefit of our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. As of December 31, 2008, we had federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of $9.9 million and $16.8 million, respectively, and federal and California research and development tax credits of $591,000 and $940,000, respectively. Federal net operating loss carryforwards totaling $9.9 million are subject to annual limitations and will be available from 2009 through 2018, as a result of federal ownership change limitations. Of this amount, $2.1 million of federal net operating loss carryforwards are available to reduce our 2009 taxable income. The federal and state net operating loss carryforwards and the federal research and development credit carryforwards expire at various dates beginning in the years 2013 through 2026, if not utilized. Utilization of our net operating loss and research and development credit carryforwards may still be subject to substantial annual limitations due to the ownership change limitations provided by the Internal Revenue Code and similar state provisions for ownership changes after December 31, 2008. Such an annual limitation could result in the expiration of the net operating loss and research and development credit carryforwards available as of December 31, 2008 before utilization. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could have a negative market reaction. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to report on, and requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. At December 31, 2008, we were compliant and have implemented an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to continue to comply with these requirements. Accordingly, we continue to incur expenses and will devote management resources to Section 404 compliance as necessary. Further, effective internal controls and procedures are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If our internal controls and procedures become ineffective, we may not be able to provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed and current and potential shareholders may not have confidence in our financial reporting. If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us or we become subject to other forms of litigation, we may incur substantial liabilities and costs and may be required to limit commercialization of our products. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks that are inherent in the manufacturing, testing and marketing of pharmaceutical products. The use of our currently marketed products or any drug candidates ultimately developed by us or our collaborators in clinical trials may expose us to product liability claims and possible adverse publicity. Under a recent United States Supreme Court ruling, FDA approval of a drug does not prevent the filing of product liability claims in state courts, potentially making it more costly and time consuming to defend against such claims. Product liability insurance for the pharmaceutical industry is generally expensive, if available at all. We currently have product liability insurance for claims up to $10.0 million. However, if we are unable to maintain insurance coverage at acceptable costs, in a sufficient amount, or at all, or if we become subject to a product liability claim, our reputation, stock price and ability to devote the necessary resources to the commercialization of our products could be negatively impacted. Business interruptions could limit our ability to operate our business. Our operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from computer viruses, human error, natural disasters, telecommunications failures, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. In particular, our corporate headquarters is located in the San Francisco Bay area, which has a history of seismic activity. We have not established a formal disaster recovery plan, and our back-up operations and our business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for losses that occur. A significant business interruption could result in losses or damages incurred by us and require us to cease or curtail our operations. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Common Stock Our stock price has a history of volatility, and an investment in our stock could decline in value. The price of our common stock is subject to significant volatility. The closing price per share of our common stock ranged in value from $0.35 to $9.54 during the two year period ended December 31, 2008. Any number of events, both internal and external to us, may continue to affect our stock price. For example, our quarterly revenues or earnings or losses can fluctuate based on the buying patterns of our specialty distributor and our end users. In the event that patient demand for Acthar is less than our sales to our specialty distributor, excess Acthar inventories may result at our specialty distributor and end users, which may impact future Acthar sales. Other potential events that could affect our stock price include, without limitation, our quarterly and yearly revenues and earnings or losses; our ability to acquire and market appropriate pharmaceuticals; announcement by us or our competitors regarding product development efforts, including the status of regulatory approval applications; the outcome of legal proceedings, including claims filed by us against third parties to enforce our patents and claims filed by third parties against us relating to patents held by the third parties; the launch of competing products; our ability to obtain product from our contract manufacturers; the resolution of (or failure to resolve) disputes with collaboration partners and corporate restructuring by us. We have significant stock option overhang which could dilute your investment. We have a substantial overhang of common stock due to a low average exercise price of employee stock options. The future exercise of employee stock options could cause substantial dilution, which may negatively affect the market price of our shares. We have certain anti-takeover provisions in place. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and the California General Corporation Law could discourage a third party from acquiring, or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, control of our company without approval of our board of directors. These provisions could also limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Certain provisions allow the board of directors to authorize the issuance of preferred stock with rights superior to those of the common stock. We are also subject to Section 1101(e) of the California General Corporation Law, which, among other things, prohibits a majority shareholder holding more than 50% but less than 90% of the outstanding shares of a California corporation from consummating a cash-out merger. We also have in place a shareholder rights plan, commonly known as a “poison pill.” The provisions in our articles of incorporation, our poison pill and provisions of the California General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 