Risk Factors: Other Risks Associated with our Business — If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, we may lose our competitive position and future revenues” for a discussion of additional risks related to intellectual property rights. Employees As of December 31, 2009 and 2008 we had 77 and 46 full-time employees, respectively. During 2009, we completed two phases of our MS sales force expansion plan, hiring and training our sales force as well as completing all territorial realignments. Our expanded sales force of 38 representatives and 6 managers allows us to build upon continued positive growth trends in prescriptions of Acthar for the treatment of exacerbations associated with MS, an indication for which Acthar is already approved. In addition, our sales force provides a platform for initiating sales of Acthar, or other pharmaceutical products, for additional uses. Our continued success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain key employees. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement, nor have we experienced work stoppages. Website Address Our website address is http://www.questcor.com. We make available free of charge through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to these reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Financial Information Please refer to Item 6, “Selected Consolidated Financial Data,” for a review of our financial results and financial position for the five years ended December 31, 2009, and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for a review of revenue and net income for the three years ended December 31, 2009. Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Associated with Acthar Substantially all of our revenue and profits are derived from Acthar. For the year ended December 31, 2009, sales of Acthar represented 99% of our total net sales. We expect to continue to rely on this product for substantially all of our revenues and profits for the foreseeable future. Also, for the year ended December 31, 2009, a significant percentage of Acthar prescriptions were for IS, which is not an approved indication for Acthar. The demand for Acthar used to treat IS is highly variable, and we cannot predict whether we will continue to generate significant revenues from sales of Acthar for the treatment of IS. If the demand for Acthar declines, if competitive products (including Vigabatrin) approved by the FDA for the treatment of IS are used to the exclusion of Acthar, if the FDA requires us to make changes to the label of Acthar which harm our ability to market Acthar for approved indications, if third-party payors refuse to provide reimbursement for purchases of Acthar, if we are forced to reduce the price for Acthar, if a greater proportion of our Acthar unit sales is comprised of product dispensed to Medicaid eligible patients and certain government entities where we do not recognize any net sales, or if we are forced to re-negotiate important contracts or terms, our net sales from the sale of Acthar would decline. If the cost to produce Acthar increases, our gross margins on the sale of Acthar would decline. If our net sales or gross margins from the sale of Acthar decline, our ability to generate profits would be harmed. We utilize CuraScript, a third-party specialty distributor, to distribute Acthar. We rely on CuraScript for all of our proceeds from sales of Acthar in the United States. The outsourcing of these functions is complex, and we may 10 Table of Contents experience difficulties that could reduce, delay or stop shipments of Acthar. If we encounter such distribution problems, and we are unable to quickly enter into a similar agreement with another specialty distributor on substantially similar terms, Acthar distribution could become disrupted, resulting in lost revenues or customer dissatisfaction. We rely on contract manufacturers to produce Acthar. The manufacturing process for Acthar is complex and contract manufacturers may not be able to meet our needs with respect to timing, cost, quantity or quality. All of our manufacturers are sole-source manufacturers and no currently qualified alternative suppliers exist. If we are unable to contract for a sufficient supply of Acthar on acceptable terms, or if we encounter delays or difficulties in our relationships with our manufacturers, we will lose the ability to fulfill orders and thus will lose sales. Moreover, contract manufacturers that we use must continually adhere to current good manufacturing practices enforced by the FDA. If the facilities of these manufacturers cannot pass an inspection, supply would be disrupted. Failure to obtain products for sale for any reason may result in an inability to meet Acthar demand and a loss of potential revenues. We cannot predict whether the FDA will approve our sNDA for Acthar. We are continuing to pursue a Supplemental New Drug Application (“sNDA”) to the FDA to add the treatment of infantile spasms (“IS”) to the list of approved indications on the Acthar label. In December 2009, our sNDA was accepted for filing by the FDA to add the treatment of infantile spasms to the Acthar label. The FDA has notified us that an Advisory Committee Meeting of independent experts will be held to discuss the approval and use of Acthar in infantile spasm. The FDA has set the user fee goal date, also known as the PDUFA date, for action on our filing of June 11, 2010 for this sNDA. However, there can be no assurance as to the actual timetable for FDA action or whether the Advisory Committee will recommend approval or the sNDA will be approved by the FDA. Additionally, in connection with the application process, the FDA could require various actions by the Company including modification of the existing Acthar label or the adoption of FDA-mandated risk evaluation and mitigation strategies, also known as a REMS program. These requirements could increase our costs or limit our sales of Acthar. A significant percentage of Acthar prescriptions is for IS, which is not an approved indication for Acthar. While physicians may lawfully prescribe Acthar for IS and other off-label uses, any promotion by us for off-label uses would be unlawful. The FDA has approved a competitive product, Vigabatrin, for the treatment of IS. We are restricted from countering claims made by the sales force for FDA-approved competitive products, which increases the risk that competitive products may be prescribed for IS instead of Acthar. We are aware of several competitors attempting to develop and market products competitive to Acthar, which may reduce or eliminate our commercial opportunity. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological changes, and a number of companies are pursuing the development of pharmaceuticals and products that target the same diseases and conditions that we target. Some of the companies developing competing technologies and products have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in development, manufacturing, obtaining regulatory approvals, and marketing than we do. Other smaller companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. In the event we are successful in expanding the therapeutic reach for Acthar, other companies may dedicate greater resources to develop and introduce generic versions of Acthar and other competitive therapies for the diseases and conditions that we target. We cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of potentially competitive products or their possible effect on our sales. Certain potentially competitive products to Acthar are in various stages of development, some of which have been filed for approval with the FDA, or have already been approved by the FDA or regulatory authorities in other countries. Vigabatrin (Sabril) is a competitive anti-convulsive product that was approved by the FDA for the treatment of IS and introduced into the U.S. market in September 2009. Prednisone and prednisolone are the generic names for anti-inflammatory corticosteroid drugs that are used to treat various types of inflammation. One off-label use of these drugs has been to treat IS. Should more doctors 11 Table of Contents prescribe prednisone or prednisolone to target the same diseases and conditions that Acthar targets, the result could be detrimental to current Acthar sales. In addition to the possibility of competitive products not based on ACTH, a competitor could seek approval for, and the FDA could approve, a generic version of Acthar. Acthar does not have any patent or other form of exclusivity protection that would legally prevent the FDA from approving a generic version. If a competitor applied to the FDA for a generic version, we would not receive any notice from the FDA about the existence of the application. Our strategy to generate Acthar revenue from other therapeutic areas might not be successful. Acthar was approved by the FDA in 1952, with over 50 approved indications on its label, including nephrotic syndrome. At that time, in order to receive FDA approval for a drug it was not necessary to demonstrate the efficacy of that drug for the indications for which approval was sought. MS was added to the label in 1972, when efficacy was required to be demonstrated. There is limited data on the efficacy of Acthar in the treatment of nephrotic syndrome. It is unclear what amount of clinical or other data physicians will require prior to deciding whether or not to use Acthar in the treatment of nephrotic syndrome. We have funded multiple investigator initiated studies relating to use of Acthar to treat nephrotic syndrome but these studies are at early stages and it is unclear if any of these studies will result in data that supports the use of Acthar to treat nephrotic syndrome. Further, even if one or more of these studies produce positive data, these studies are not the same as randomized clinical trials and it is unclear whether any such data will result in doctors prescribing Acthar for the treatment of nephrotic syndrome. The use of Acthar for the treatment of MS flares is generally accepted, but the primary treatment for flares is IV corticosteroids. While we have had some initial success in positioning Acthar as a second-line treatment for MS flares for patients who do not respond to IV corticosteroids, it is unclear whether we will continue to be able to expand this market or even maintain our current level of sales in this market. While there are over 50 approved indications on the Acthar label, for many of these indications it is not likely that we will be successful in generating net sales in the near future. Further, under the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, the FDA has greater authority to require sponsors to modify labels of previously approved drugs. If the FDA requires us to remove any indications for which we were previously approved, we may not be able to market Acthar for those indications, thus potentially decreasing our revenue. If we are successful in growing our sales in the MS and nephrotic syndrome markets, or in developing other markets for Acthar, our increasing the overall sales volume of Acthar may lead other companies to dedicate greater resources to develop and introduce generic versions of Acthar or other competitive therapies for the diseases and conditions that we target. The manufacture of our products is a highly exacting and complex process, and if any of our suppliers encounters problems manufacturing products, our business could suffer. Biological products such as Acthar require production processes that are significantly more complicated than those required for chemical pharmaceuticals, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. Problems may arise during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials, natural disasters, and environmental factors. In addition, we currently use single suppliers for our products and materials. If problems arise during the production of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded. This could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to company reputation and customer relations, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches or products. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be incurred. To the extent that one of our suppliers experiences significant manufacturing problems, this could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. For example, in the quarter ended September 30, 2009, the Company reserved approximately $540,000 for a manufactured lot of Acthar that did not meet applicable specifications. 12 Table of Contents Acthar is derived from the extraction and purification of porcine pituitary glands through complicated processes, and is difficult to manufacture. We have a supply agreement with BioVectra dcl to produce the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Acthar. The supply agreement with BioVectra terminates on December 31, 2010, and includes a mutual one-year extension option. If we are unable to extend or renew our supply agreement with BioVectra or enter into a new supply agreement on substantially similar terms with a new manufacturer, or are unable to obtain FDA approval for a new manufacturer, we may not be able to manufacture or sell Acthar, which would result in a substantial loss of revenues and damage to our business. We have a supply agreement with Cangene bioPharma, Inc. (“Cangene”), formerly known as Chesapeake Biological Laboratories, Inc., to produce our finished vials of Acthar. The supply agreement with Cangene is in effect until terminated by either party upon twelve months’ notice. If either party cancels the supply agreement, and we are unable to enter into a new supply agreement on substantially similar terms with a new manufacturer, or are unable to obtain FDA approval for a new manufacturer, we may not be able to manufacture or sell Acthar, which would result in a substantial loss of revenues and damage to our business. Risks Associated with Our non-Acthar Growth Initiatives We have a very limited pipeline of new products. Since the adoption of our Acthar-centric business model in August 2007, we have focused our research and development efforts on Acthar. Besides Acthar, our pipeline of potential new products consists of a single development program: QSC-001. In February 2009, we announced that we were seeking a partner to complete development of QSC-001. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify such a partner or successfully negotiate a license or other agreement with commercially reasonable terms. Such terms could include deferred consideration in the form of milestone payments and royalties and there can be no assurance that any such payments or royalties would actually become due to Questcor. Our strategy to diversify our product portfolio might not be successful. To remain competitive and grow our business, we must launch new products and technologies. To accomplish this, we intend to commit efforts, funds, and other resources to research and development and business development. Even with acquired products and technologies, a high rate of failure is inherent in the acquisition of pharmaceutical products. We must make ongoing substantial expenditures without any assurance that our efforts will be commercially successful. Failure can occur at any point in the process, including after significant funds have been invested. For example, promising new product candidates may fail to reach the market or may only have limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, failure to achieve positive clinical outcomes, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, limited scope of approved uses, excessive costs to manufacture, the failure to establish or maintain intellectual property rights, or infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. Even if we successfully acquire or develop new products, they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences, changing industry standards, or competitors’ innovations. Innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of, among other things, entrenched patterns of clinical practice or uncertainty over third-party reimbursement. We cannot state with certainty when or whether we will be able to develop, license, or otherwise acquire compounds or products, or whether any products will be commercially successful. Failure to launch successful new products or new indications for Acthar may cause our products to become obsolete, causing our revenues and operating results to suffer. We may have insufficient capital to fund our Growth Initiatives and may be forced to seek dilutive financing. The acquisition of new products or businesses is expensive, which may require us to raise additional capital in excess of our current cash and short term investments. In the current economic environment, we may not be able to raise enough capital to acquire prospective products or businesses. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our existing shareholders’ ownership will be diluted. Any debt, receivables or royalty financing we enter into may involve covenants that restrict our operations. These restrictive covenants may include 13 Table of Contents limitations on additional borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of our assets as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, redeem our stock or make investments. Risks Associated with Government Regulations and Health Care Reform Federal and/or state health care reform initiatives could negatively affect our business. Bills and regulations proposing comprehensive health care reform are being formulated in Congress and state legislatures as well as in agencies of those governmental bodies that could potentially limit pharmaceutical prices and establish mandatory or voluntary refunds. New legislation has been proposed in the United States at the federal and state levels that would effect major changes in the health care system, either nationally or at the state level. Recently, President Obama and members of Congress have proposed significant reforms. On November 7, 2009, the House of Representatives passed, and on December 24, 2009, the Senate passed health care reform legislation that would require most individuals to have health insurance, establish new regulations on health plans, create insurance pooling mechanisms and a government insurance option to compete with private plans and other expanded health measures. President Obama introduced additional proposals in February 2010. Because legislation has not yet been enacted, it is still not possible to determine what, if any, impact this legislation may have on the pharmaceutical industry and our business. It is further uncertain if any legislative proposals will be adopted and how federal, state or private payors for health care goods and services will be impacted by or respond to any health care reforms. The high cost of pharmaceutical prices continues to generate substantial government interest. Various governmental entities may focus on pharmaceutical prices by holding hearings or launching investigations regarding the pricing for drugs by specialty pharmaceutical companies such as ours and the ability of patients to obtain drugs. In December 2009, the Government Accounting Office released its report on the growing cost of brand-name prescription drugs. In addition, in July 2008, the Joint Economic Committee of Congress held hearings on the pricing of drugs for rare conditions. Should hearings or investigations occur that result in legislative changes or consent decrees regarding drug pricing, we may be forced to decrease the price that we charge for Acthar, thereby decreasing our net income. Questcor operates in a highly regulated industry. We are subject to the regulatory authority of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Food and Drug Administration and numerous other federal and state governmental agencies including state Attorney General Offices, which have become more active in investigating the business practices of pharmaceutical companies. From time to time, we receive requests for information from various governmental agencies. On February 25, 2009, we received a Civil Investigative Demand (“CID”) from the Attorney General of the State of Missouri, in connection with that office’s investigation of our pricing practices with respect to Acthar under Missouri’s Merchandising Practices Act. On May 7, 2009, we received a subpoena from the Attorney General of the State of New York in connection with that office’s investigation, under New York’s antitrust statute and Federal antitrust statutes, of our acquisition of Acthar from Aventis in 2001, our Acthar royalty arrangements and our subsequent pricing of Acthar. We have provided documents and information to the Attorneys General of Missouri and New York, and will continue to cooperate with these Attorneys General if called upon to do so. There can be no assurance that these types of requests for information or investigations will not have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be negatively affected by lower reimbursement levels. Notwithstanding the impact of any proposed health care reform legislation, our ability to generate net sales is affected by the availability of third-party reimbursement for Acthar, and our ability to generate net sales will be diminished if we fail to maintain an adequate level of reimbursement for Acthar from such third-party payors. The sale of Acthar depends in part on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors such as private insurance plans. In the United States, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of state and federal proposals that limit the amount that private insurance plans may pay to reimburse the cost of drugs, including Acthar. We believe the increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has and will continue to put pressure on the price and usage of Acthar, which may also impact sales of Acthar. In addition, current third-party reimbursement policies for Acthar may change at any time. Negative changes in reimbursement or our failure to 14 Table of Contents obtain reimbursement for Acthar may reduce the demand for, or the price of, Acthar, which could result in lower Acthar sales, thereby weakening our competitive position and negatively impacting our results of operations. Medicaid eligible patients and government entities may account for a greater proportion of our Acthar unit sales resulting in reduced net sales. Our net sales may be adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates. Administrative or judicial interpretations of such laws and regulations could also force us to reduce our reimbursement rates or increase the amount of chargebacks paid to certain government entities. The sources and amounts of our revenues are determined by a number of factors, including the rates of reimbursement among payers. Changes in the payer mix among private pay, Medicaid, and government programs usage may significantly affect our profitability. A portion of the estimated end-user vial demand for Acthar is for patients covered under Medicaid and other government-related programs. As required by Federal regulations, we provide rebates related to Acthar dispensed to a significant percentage of Medicaid patients. In addition, certain other government-supported agencies are permitted to purchase Acthar for a nominal amount from our specialty distributor, which then charges the discount back to us. As a result of these rebates and chargebacks, we do not generate any net sales with respect to sales which are subject to rebates or chargebacks. As a result of current economic conditions, recently adopted legislation or potential future legislation, it is possible that a greater proportion of Acthar sales will be subject to these rebates and chargebacks, reducing our net sales. Additionally, there could be changes to Medicaid regulations resulting in higher rebates and chargebacks, which would reduce our net sales further. The interpretation of laws and regulations may negatively affect the amount we are able to charge government agencies for Acthar, or may negatively affect our historical financial results. For example, on March 17, 2009, the Department of Defense issued final regulations under the Fiscal Year 2008 National Defense Authorization Act which interpreted such Act to expand a government health care program, Tricare, to include prescription drugs dispensed by Tricare retail network pharmacies. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded a reserve for $3.5 million, the total amount of our potential exposure for these Tricare claimed rebates. We may be negatively affected by unforeseen invoicing of historical Medicaid sales. We provide a rebate related to product dispensed to Medicaid eligible patients in instances where regulations provide for such a rebate. The rebate per unit formula is comprised of a basic rebate of 15.1% applied to the average per unit amount of payments we receive on our product sales and an additional per unit rebate that is based on our current sales price compared to our sales price on an inflation adjusted basis from a designated base period. We multiply the rebate amount per unit by the estimated rebate units to arrive at the reserve for the period. This reserve is deducted from gross sales in the determination of net sales. Effective January 1, 2008, the amount we rebate for each Acthar vial dispensed to a Medicaid eligible patient is approximately $2,500 higher than our price to CuraScript SD. The Medicaid rebates associated with end user demand for a period are mostly paid to the states by the end of the quarter following the quarter in which the rebate reserve is established. Revisions in the Medicaid rebate estimates are charged to income in the period in which the information that gives rise to the revision becomes known. However, certain states may provide their requested rebates to us on a delayed basis, which would negatively affect future financial performance in periods occurring after the period in which the original reserved Medicaid rebate accrual occurred. For example, in the third quarter of 2009, we received higher than anticipated amounts of Medicaid rebates related to prior period Acthar usage. In connection with our receipt of invoices related to these rebates, we increased our rebate reserve which reduced net sales in the third quarter of 2009 by approximately $4.6 million. We are currently subject to numerous governmental regulations and it can be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant products and processes. Without considering the impact of any proposed or future health care reform initiatives, no assurance can be given that we will remain in compliance with currently applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements for our currently marketed products or any new product once clearance or approval has been obtained. These requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling and post-marketing 15 Table of Contents reporting, including adverse event reports and field alerts due to product quality concerns. Additionally, the facilities and procedures of our suppliers are subject to ongoing regulation, including periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Any product that we develop must receive all relevant regulatory approvals or clearances before it may be marketed in a particular country. A significant percentage of Acthar prescriptions is for the treatment of IS, which is not an approved indication for Acthar. While physicians may lawfully prescribe Acthar for IS and other off-label uses, any promotion by us of any off-label uses would be unlawful. Some of our practices that are intended to respond to questions from physicians with respect to off-label uses of Acthar without engaging in off-label promotion could nonetheless be construed by the FDA as off-label promotion. Although we have policies and procedures in place designed to help assure ongoing compliance with regulatory requirements regarding off-label promotion, some non-compliant actions may nonetheless occur or be deemed by regulatory authorities to have occurred. Regulatory authorities could take enforcement action against us if they believe we are promoting or have promoted our products for off-label use. Also, the label for Acthar includes a list of indications for which Acthar has not been actively promoted or prescribed for in several years, if ever. It is possible that the FDA could, in the context of reviewing our sNDA for IS or otherwise, conduct a review of the Acthar label and require us to provide data to the FDA regarding the safety and efficacy of Acthar relating to these indications. If we are unable to provide such data to the FDA, we may be forced to remove those indications. Our inability to market Acthar for indications that we were previously able to promote may negatively affect our financial performance. The regulatory process, which may include extensive pre-clinical studies and clinical trials of each product to establish its safety and efficacy, is uncertain, can span many years, and requires the expenditure of substantial time and resources to ensure compliance with complex regulations. Should we fail to comply with applicable regulations, possible regulatory actions could include warning letters, fines, damages, injunctions, civil penalties, recalls, seizures of our products and criminal prosecution. These actions could result in, among other things, substantial modifications to our business practices and operations; refunds, recalls or a total or partial shutdown of production in one or more of our suppliers’ facilities while our suppliers remedy the alleged violation; the inability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals; and withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. Any of these events could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. In addition, data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval or clearance. In addition, delays or rejections may be encountered based upon changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development and the period of review of any application for regulatory approval or clearance for a product. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or clearances could: • stall the marketing, selling and distribution of any products that we develop, • impose significant additional costs on us, • diminish any competitive advantages that we may have or develop, and • decrease our ability to generate revenues and profits. Regulatory approval, if granted, may entail limitations on the indicated uses for which a new product may be marketed that could limit the potential market for the product. Product approvals, once granted, may be withdrawn if problems occur after initial marketing. Furthermore, manufacturers of approved products are subject to pervasive review, including compliance with detailed regulations governing FDA good manufacturing practices. The FDA periodically revises the good manufacturing practices regulations and requires manufacturers to remain current with the latest regulations. In addition, we cannot predict the extent of governmental regulations or the impact of new governmental regulations that may result in a delay in the development, production and marketing of our products. As such, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with current or future laws or regulations. 16 Table of Contents Other Risks Associated with our Business The loss of our key management personnel or failure to integrate new management personnel could have an adverse impact on future operations. We are highly dependent on the services of the principal members of our senior management team, and the loss of a member of senior management could create significant disruption in our ability to provide Acthar to our customers. We do not carry key person life insurance for our senior management or other personnel. Additionally, the future potential growth and expansion of our business is expected to place increased demands on our management skills and resources. Recruiting and retaining management and operational personnel to perform sales and marketing, financial operations, business development, clinical development, regulatory affairs, quality assurance, medical affairs and contract manufacturing in the future will also be critical to our success. We do not know if we will be able to attract and retain skilled and experienced management and operational personnel in the future on acceptable terms given the intense competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for such personnel. If we are unable to hire necessary skilled personnel in the future, our business could be harmed. Our financial results can be negatively impacted by economic downturns. Downturns in the general economic environment present us with several potential challenges. In challenging economies and periods of increased unemployment, a greater percentage of our unit volume may be subject to reimbursement under Medicaid and other government programs. This shifting in payer mix can negatively impact our financial results. In addition, third-party payors such as private insurance companies may be less willing to satisfy their reimbursement obligations in a timely matter, or at all. State and federal reimbursement programs such as Medicaid may curtail their reimbursements due to budget cuts. As a result of downturns in the economy, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance of our third-party contractors, suppliers or collaborators, including CuraScript. If CuraScript is unable to satisfy its commitments to us, our business would be adversely affected. There may be a disruption or delay in the performance of our third-party manufacturers for Acthar. If such third-party manufacturers are unable to satisfy their commitments to us, our business would be adversely affected. Downturns in the capital markets may have a negative impact on the market values of the investments in our investment portfolio. We cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and there can be no assurance that the markets for these securities will not deteriorate or that the institutions that hold these investments will be able to meet their debt obligations at the time we may need to liquidate such investments or until such time as the investments mature. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, we may lose our competitive position and future revenues. We do not have a patent on Acthar. However, our success will depend in part on our ability to do the following: • obtain patents for our products and technologies, • protect trade secrets, • operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others, and • prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. We will only be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that these rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets and are otherwise protectable under applicable law. We will attempt to protect our proprietary position by filing U.S. and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary products, technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. The patent positions of biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. Patents, if issued, may be challenged, 17 Table of Contents invalidated or circumvented. Thus, any patents that we own or license from third parties for future products may not provide any protection against competitors. Pending patent applications we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties, may not result in patents being issued. Also, patent rights may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology that we have developed or we will develop. The laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition to patents for future products, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how for Acthar. We currently seek protection, in part, through confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for proprietary technology in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential and proprietary information. The parties may not comply with or may breach these agreements. Furthermore, our trade secrets may otherwise become known to, or be independently developed by, competitors. Our success will further depend, in part, on our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. If our activities infringe on patents owned by others, we could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves in suits brought against a licensor or us. Should our products or technologies be found to infringe on patents issued to third parties, the manufacture, use and sale of our products could be enjoined, and we could be required to pay substantial damages. In addition, we, in connection with the development and use of our products and technologies, may be required to obtain licenses to patents or other proprietary rights of third parties, which may not be made available on terms acceptable to us. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could have a negative market reaction. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to report on, and requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. At December 31, 2009, we were compliant and have implemented an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to continue to comply with these requirements. Accordingly, we continue to incur expenses and will devote management resources to Section 404 compliance as necessary. Further, effective internal controls and procedures are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If our internal controls and procedures become ineffective, we may not be able to provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed and current and potential shareholders may not have confidence in our financial reporting. If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us or we become subject to other forms of litigation, we may incur substantial liabilities and costs and may be required to limit commercialization of our products. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks that are inherent in the manufacturing, testing and marketing of pharmaceutical products. The use of our currently marketed products or any drug candidates ultimately developed by us or our collaborators in clinical trials may expose us to product liability claims and possible adverse publicity. Under a recent United States Supreme Court ruling, FDA approval of a drug does not prevent the filing of product liability claims in state courts, potentially making it more costly and time consuming to defend against such claims. Product liability insurance for the pharmaceutical industry is generally expensive, if available at all. We currently have product liability insurance for claims up to $10.0 million. However, if we are unable to maintain insurance coverage at acceptable costs, in a sufficient amount, or at all, or if we become subject to a product liability claim, our reputation, stock price and ability to devote the necessary resources to the commercialization of our products could be negatively impacted. Business interruptions could limit our ability to operate our business. Our operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from computer viruses, human error, natural disasters, telecommunications failures, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. In particular, our corporate 18 Table of Contents headquarters is located in the San Francisco Bay area, which has a history of seismic activity. We have not established a formal disaster recovery plan, and our back-up operations and our business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for losses that occur. A significant business interruption could result in losses or damages incurred by us and require us to cease or curtail our operations. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our stock price has a history of volatility, and an investment in our stock could decline in value. The price of our common stock is subject to significant volatility. The closing price per share of our common stock ranged in value from $3.49 to $9.54 during the two year period ended December 31, 2009. Any number of events, both internal and external to us, may continue to affect our stock price. For example, our quarterly revenues or earnings or losses can fluctuate based on the buying patterns of our specialty distributor and our end users. In the event that patient demand for Acthar is less than our sales to our specialty distributor, excess Acthar inventories may result at our specialty distributor and end users, which may impact future Acthar sales. Other potential events that could affect our stock price include, without limitation; our quarterly and yearly revenues and earnings or losses; our ability to acquire and market appropriate pharmaceuticals; announcement by us or our competitors regarding product development efforts, including the status of regulatory approval applications; the outcome of legal proceedings, including claims filed by us against third parties to enforce our patents and claims filed by third parties against us relating to patents held by the third parties; the launch of competing products; our ability to obtain product from our contract manufacturers; the resolution of (or failure to resolve) disputes with collaboration partners and corporate restructuring by us. We have significant stock option overhang which could dilute your investment. We have a substantial overhang of common stock due to a low average exercise price of employee stock options. The future exercise of employee stock options could cause substantial dilution, which may negatively affect the market price of our shares. We have certain anti-takeover provisions in place. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and the California General Corporation Law could discourage a third party from acquiring, or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, control of our company without approval of our board of directors. These provisions could also limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Certain provisions allow the board of directors to authorize the issuance of preferred stock with rights superior to those of the common stock. We are also subject to Section 1101(e) of the California General Corporation Law, which, among other things, limits the ability of a majority shareholder holding more than 50% but less than 90% of the outstanding shares of a California corporation from consummating a cash-out merger. The provisions in our articles of incorporation and provisions of the California General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 