Item 1a. Risk Factors This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. Factors Affecting Our Operating Results and Financial Condition We expect to continue to incur net losses, and we might never achieve profitability. We were incorporated in 1991 and have incurred a net operating loss every year. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $1.1 billion. We are pursuing regulatory approval for paclitaxel poliglumex, pixantrone, brostallicin and plan to seek regulatory approval for the expansion of approved uses of Zevalin. We will need to conduct research, development, testing and regulatory compliance activities and undertake manufacturing and drug supply activities, expenses which, together with projected general and administrative expenses, will result in operating losses for the foreseeable future. We may never become profitable, even if we are able to commercialize products currently in development or otherwise. Our debt and operating expenses exceed our net revenues. We have a substantial amount of debt outstanding, and our annual interest expense with respect to our debt is significant. We have a single drug we are marketing, Zevalin, and the net proceeds of sales of this drug are not sufficient to pay our debt and operating expenses on a current basis. We do not currently project that net revenues from sales of any of our products will be sufficient to cover our existing debt and operating expenses within the next twelve months. Unless we raise substantial additional capital, we will not be able to repay this debt or the interest, liquidated damages or other payments that may become due with respect to our debt. Approximately $10.7 million of this debt is due in June 2008. Prior to this debt becoming due, we may engage in one or more restructuring transactions which could involve, among other things, an effective increase in interest rates, alteration of terms or exchanges involving the issuance of additional shares of common stock or other arrangements which may dilute or be adverse to the value of our common stock and preferred stock. We need to raise additional funds immediately and expect that we will need to continue to raise funds in the future, and funds may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. In 2007, we were able to raise capital through the sale of preferred stock and common stock, and raised a total of approximately $91.0 million in gross proceeds, with an additional $1.3 million in gross proceeds raised from an equity offering under our Step-Up Equity Financing Agreement with Société Générale in January 2008 and approximately $35.5 million in proceeds from a convertible debt offering, net of inducement payments for conversions of convertible preferred stock, in March 2008. Approximately $13.9 million of the net proceeds received from our convertible debt offering is restricted and is being held in escrow to fund potential make-whole payments due upon conversions of this debt. However, we have substantial operating expenses associated with the development of our product candidates and as of December 31, 2007 we had cash and cash equivalents, securities available-for-sale and interest receivable of approximately $18.4 million, and total current liabilities of approximately $53.5 million. We also have a substantial amount of debt outstanding, including an aggregate of approximately $152.5 million in convertible notes as of March 19, 2008, of which $10.7 million is due in June 2008. Furthermore, as a result of our preferred stock financings in 2007, we may be obligated to redeem such preferred stock starting in February 2009. We expect that our existing cash and cash equivalents, securities available-for-sale and interest receivable, including proceeds received from our offerings through March 15, 2008, will not provide sufficient working capital to fund our presently anticipated operations for the next 12 months and repay our notes due in June 2008, and we will therefore need to raise additional capital. We have a €60 million (approximately $88 million as of December 31, 2007) Step-Up Equity Financing Agreement with Société Générale which we may be able to utilize to provide additional equity funding. As of 19 Table of Contents March 19, 2008 we had approximately €59.1 million available under this agreement. Additionally, we may raise such capital through public or private equity financings, partnerships, joint ventures, dispositions of assets, debt financings or restructurings, bank borrowings or other sources. However, additional funding, including any obtained under the Financing Agreement, may not be available on favorable terms or at all. If adequate funds are not otherwise available, we will further curtail operations significantly, including the delay, modification or cancellation of operations and plans related to paclitaxel poliglumex, pixantrone, brostallicin, expanded uses of Zevalin and other products we may be developing. To obtain additional funding, we may need to enter into arrangements that require us to relinquish rights to certain technologies, drug candidates, products and/or potential markets. In addition, some financing alternatives may require us to meet additional regulatory requirements in Italy and the U.S., which may increase our costs and adversely affect our ability to obtain financing. To the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity, or securities convertible into equity, shareholders may experience dilution of their proportionate ownership of us. We have received a going concern opinion on our consolidated financial statements Due to our need to raise additional financing to fund our operations and satisfy obligations as they become due, our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph in their report on our December 31, 2007 consolidated financial statements regarding their substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. This may have a negative impact on the trading price of our common stock and we may have a more difficult time obtaining necessary financing. We may be unable to obtain a quorum for meetings of our shareholders and therefore be unable to take certain corporate actions. Our bylaws require that a quorum, consisting of a majority of the outstanding shares of voting stock, be represented in person or by proxy in order to transact business at a meeting of our shareholders. A substantial number of our common shares are held by Italian institutions and under Italian laws and regulations, it is difficult to communicate with the beneficial holders of those shares to obtain votes. In 2006, we scheduled two annual meetings of shareholders but were unable to obtain quorum at either meeting. Following that failure to obtain quorum, we contacted certain depository banks in Italy where significant numbers of shares of our common stock were held and asked them to cooperate by making a book entry transfer of their share positions at Monte Titoli to their U.S. correspondent bank, who will then transfer the shares to an account of the Italian bank at a U.S. broker-dealer that is an affiliate of that bank. Certain of the banks contacted agreed to make the share transfer pursuant to these arrangements as of the record date of the meeting, subject to the relevant beneficial owner taking no action to direct the voting of such shares. Under Rule 452 of the New York Stock Exchange, the U.S. broker-dealer may vote shares absent direction from the beneficial owner on certain matters, such as the uncontested election of directors, an amendment to the Company’s articles of incorporation to increase authorized shares that are to be used for general corporate purposes, and the ratification of our auditors, in the event that the broker receives no voting instruction from the beneficial owner. As a result of this custody transfer, we were able to hold a special meeting of the shareholders in April 2007, an annual meeting of the shareholders in September 2007 and another special meeting of the shareholders in January 2008. However, obtaining a quorum at future meetings depends in part upon the willingness of the Italian depository banks to continue participating in the custody transfer arrangements, and we cannot be assured that those banks that have participated in the past will continue to participate in custody transfer arrangements in the future. We are continuing to explore other alternatives to achieve quorum for our meetings, however, we cannot be certain that we will find an alternate method if we are unable to continue to use the custody transfer arrangements. As a result, we may be unable to obtain quorum at future annual or special meetings of shareholders. If we are unable to obtain a quorum at our shareholder meetings and thus fail to get shareholder approval of corporate actions, such failure could have a materially adverse effect on the Company. In addition, brokers may only vote on those matters for which broker discretionary voting is allowed under Rule 452, and we may not be able to obtain the required number of votes to approve certain proposals that require a majority of all outstanding shares to approve the proposal due to our reliance on broker discretionary voting. Therefore it is possible that even if we are able to obtain a quorum for 20 Table of Contents our meetings of the shareholders we still may not receive enough votes to approve proxy proposals presented at such meeting and, depending on the proposal in question, such failure could have a materially adverse effect on the Company. We could fail in financing efforts if we fail to receive shareholder approval when needed. We are required under the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules to obtain shareholder approval for any issuance of additional equity securities that would comprise more than 20% of our total shares of common stock outstanding before the issuance of the securities at a discount to the greater of book or market value in an offering that is not deemed to be a “public offering” by Nasdaq. Funding of our operations in the future may require issuance of additional equity securities that would comprise more than 20% of our total shares of common stock outstanding, but we might not be successful in obtaining the required shareholder approval for such an issuance, particularly in light of the difficulties we have experienced in obtaining a quorum and holding shareholder meetings as outlined above. We are required to comply with the regulatory structure of Italy because our stock is traded on the MTA, which could result in administrative challenges. Our stock is traded on the MTA stock market in Milan, Italy and we are required to also comply with the rules and regulations of the Commissione Nazionale per le Società e la Borsa, or CONSOB, which is the public authority responsible for regulating the Italian securities market and the Borsa Italiana, which ensures the development of the managed market in Italy. Collectively these agencies regulate companies listed on Italy’s public markets. Conducting our operations in a manner that complies with all applicable laws and rules requires us to devote additional time and resources to regulatory compliance matters. For example, the process of seeking to understand and comply with the laws of each country, including tax, labor and regulatory laws, might require us to incur the expense of engaging additional outside counsel, accountants and other professional advisors and might result in delayed business initiatives as we seek to ensure that each new initiative will comply with all applicable regulatory regimes. Compliance with Italian regulatory requirements may delay additional issuances of our common stock; we are currently taking steps to attempt to conform to the requirements of the Italian stock exchange and CONSOB to allow such additional issuances. In addition, under Italian law, we must publish a listing prospectus that has been approved by CONSOB prior to issuing common stock in any twelve-month period that exceeds 10% of the number of shares of common stock outstanding at the beginning of that period. We have attempted to publish a listing prospectus in Italy to cover our general offerings for the past year. We filed our initial listing prospectus with CONSOB in April 2007 and worked with CONSOB to meet their requirements to publish that listing prospectus for the remainder of 2007. We were finally able to publish a listing prospectus in January 2008, however, that listing prospectus was limited to shares to be issued to Société Générale under the Step-Up Equity Financing Agreement we entered into with Société Générale in 2006. We continue to pursue the possibility of publishing a listing prospectus to cover other financing efforts under Italian law, however, at the present time we have not been successful in getting approval from the Italian regulators for such a listing prospectus. As a result, we are required to raise money using alternative forms of securities; for example, we use convertible preferred stock and convertible debt in lieu of common stock as convertible preferred stock and convertible debt are not subject to the 10% limitation imposed by Italian law. In 2006, we identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and we received an adverse opinion on internal control over financial reporting from our independent registered public accounting firm in connection with their annual internal control attestation process for fiscal year 2006. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We identified that as of 21 Table of Contents December 31, 2006 we had the following material weaknesses relative to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting: • We did not maintain an effective review and approval process in our European subsidiary, or CTI (Europe), to ensure the accuracy of accounts payable and accrued expenses for certain activities shared by headquarters and CTI (Europe) in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. • We did not maintain effective internal controls related to the financial reporting process to detect errors that are not identified by the process level controls in CTI (Europe). During 2007, to remedy the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we implemented enhanced review and approval procedures that are designed to help ensure we accurately record accounts payable and accrued expense balances in CTI (Europe), and trained personnel in key finance positions in CTI (Europe) regarding the enhanced procedures and appropriate levels of oversight and review. In November 2007, we merged CTI (Europe) with and into CTI in a roll-up merger under Washington law. As a result, all of our operations in Italy are now directly part of CTI and CTI (Europe) is now a branch of the Company. The existence of a material weakness is an indication that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately, which may deprive management of important financial information needed to manage the Company effectively, may cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and may have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. If we are not able to successfully identify and complete valuable acquisition opportunities, we may not achieve the anticipated growth we would otherwise achieve were such acquisitions accomplished. We have in the past and may in the future seek to further expand our product portfolio through acquisitions of other complementary businesses or technologies or marketed products. For example, in July 2007, we acquired SM, a privately held oncology company, and gained worldwide rights to brostallicin, a DNA minor groove binding agent with proven anti-tumor activity which is currently in phase II clinical studies. Additionally, in December 2007, we acquired Zevalin from Biogen Idec, or Biogen, for development, marketing and sale in the United States. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky, and we cannot assure that we will be able to complete future acquisitions, or that our acquisitions will be successful. The successful execution of our acquisition strategy will depend, in part, on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate such acquisitions and, if necessary, obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing to fund those acquisitions. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquired businesses could harm our business. If we are not able to successfully integrate recent and future acquisitions, our management’s attention could be diverted, and efforts to integrate future acquisitions could consume significant resources. The acquisitions of SM and of Zevalin or any other future acquisition that we may undertake, involve numerous risks related to the integration of the acquired asset or entity into the Company after the acquisition is completed. These risks include the following: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, and products of the acquired companies; • difficulties in implementing internal controls over financial reporting; • diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; • inability to maintain the key business relationships and the reputations of acquired businesses; 22 Table of Contents • entry into markets in which we have limited or no prior experience and in which competitors have stronger market positions; • dependence on unfamiliar affiliates and partners; • reduction in the development or commercialization of existing products due to increased focus on the development or commercialization of the acquired products; • responsibility for the liabilities of acquired businesses; • inability to maintain our internal standards, controls, procedures and policies at the acquired companies or businesses; and • potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. In addition, if we finance or otherwise complete acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our existing shareholders may be diluted. If we are unable to expand label usage of Zevalin, or maintain or obtain improved reimbursement rates, we may not recognize the full value of the asset and there may be adverse effects on our expected financial and operating results. We intend to seek expansion of the approved uses, or labeled uses, of Zevalin in the United States. However, we may be unable to obtain approval for such label expansion in full or in part. If we are not able to obtain approval for expansion of the labeled uses for Zevalin, or if we are otherwise unable to fulfill our marketing, sales and distribution plans for Zevalin, we may not recognize the full anticipated value of Zevalin. If we do not expand the approved uses of Zevalin, we may have insufficient net revenues to finance our current levels of debt and operations unless we are able to market and sell other products. While we intend to negotiate with Bayer Schering for access to data from their first line indolent trial, or FIT trial, we currently have no rights to that data, and there is no assurance that Bayer Schering will agree to give us access to their data on reasonable terms or at all. In addition, even if we are able to use the data from Bayer Schering’s FIT trial, there can be no guarantee that such data will be adequate or suitable for submission to the FDA in support of a supplemental biologics license application for additional approved uses of Zevalin, or that the FDA will approve such supplemental biologics license application. In 2007, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, implemented new outpatient reimbursement rates to be put in place in 2008 for radiopharmaceuticals, including Zevalin. These new rates are below the acquisition costs of Zevalin. Although Congress passed legislation in late 2007 to delay the implementation of those new rates and stabilize reimbursement rates for the first six months of 2008 with the intention of giving drug manufacturers and CMS more time to reach an agreement that more adequately reflects hospitals’ costs associated with the therapy, there can be no guarantee that CMS will agree to a rate or methodology that provides an acceptable reimbursement on radiopharmaceuticals such as Zevalin. In the event that CMS does not agree to a reimbursement rate that is adequate to cover the acquisition costs of Zevalin, we may face immediate and significant difficulty in getting care providers to use Zevalin, which would have an adverse impact on our expected financial and operating results. We may face difficulties in achieving broader market acceptance of Zevalin if we do not invest significantly in our sales and marketing infrastructure. We currently market Zevalin using a direct sales force that we recently hired in connection with our acquisition of Zevalin from Biogen. U.S. sales of Zevalin by its prior owner either declined or remained flat over the past several years and we expect such sales to remain flat in 2008. We believe that our sales and marketing strategy, in conjunction with our efforts to obtain approval by the FDA for expanded uses of Zevalin, will increase sales of and revenue from Zevalin over the next few years. Our sales and marketing strategy intends to 23 Table of Contents take advantage of the recent lowering of barriers to adoption, including greater economic incentives and practice efficiencies for Zevalin compared to rituximab, the recent adoption of positron emission tomography in community oncology practices, which facilitates use of Zevalin, and implementation of a Zevalin community access program, which targets facilitation of on-site ordering, receipt, and administration of Zevalin by the 100 largest community oncology group practices. However, implementation of the sales and marketing strategy will require an investment of resources and may not increase Zevalin revenues according to our forecasts. In addition, creation and expansion of an effective sales force may take time, and competition for sales and marketing personnel in our industry is intense. Therefore, we will need to effectively manage and expand our sales force, hire individuals with additional technical expertise, expand our distribution capacity or otherwise grow our sales and marketing infrastructure in order to achieve broader market acceptance and additional sales revenue from Zevalin. In addition to the factors just listed, if we do not effectively manage our sales force, our financial condition and operating results may suffer. We may not realize any royalties, milestone payments or other benefits under the License and Co-Development agreement entered into with Novartis Pharmaceutical Company Ltd. We have entered into a License and Co-Development agreement related to paclitaxel poliglumex and pixantrone with Novartis International Pharmaceutical Ltd., or Novartis, pursuant to which Novartis received an exclusive worldwide license for the development and commercialization of paclitaxel poliglumex and an option to enter into an exclusive worldwide license to develop and commercialize pixantrone. We will not receive any royalty or milestone payments under this agreement unless Novartis elects to participate in the development and commercialization of paclitaxel poliglumex or if Novartis exercises its option related to pixantrone and we are able to reach a definitive agreement. Novartis is under no obligation to make such election or exercise such right and may never do so. In addition, even if Novartis exercises such rights, any royalties and milestone payments we may be eligible to receive from Novartis are subject to the receipt of the necessary regulatory approvals and the attainment of certain sales levels. We may never receive the necessary regulatory approvals and our products may not reach the necessary sales levels. We may be delayed, limited or precluded from obtaining regulatory approval of paclitaxel poliglumex given that our three STELLAR phase III clinical trials for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer did not meet their primary endpoints. There are no guarantees that we will obtain regulatory approval to manufacture, market, or expand the marketing of any of our drug candidates. Obtaining regulatory approval to market drugs to treat cancer is expensive, difficult, and risky. Preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or preclude regulatory approval. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Our future financial success depends in large part on obtaining regulatory approval of paclitaxel poliglumex. In March 2005, we announced the results of STELLAR 3, and in May 2005, we announced the results of STELLAR 2 and 4, our phase III clinical trials of paclitaxel poliglumex in non-small cell lung cancer. All three trials failed to achieve their primary endpoints of superior overall survival compared to current marketed agents for treating NSCLC. In December 2006, we closed the PIONEER clinical trial and in 2007, we initiated a new study in the United States, PGT307, which focuses on the primary efficacy endpoint of survival in women with NSCLC and pre-menopausal estrogen levels. We have decided not to initiate an additional study, the PGT306 trial, for which we have submitted a special protocol assessment, or SPA, to conserve limited financial resources. We also feel that compelling evidence from one trial, the PGT307 trial, along with supporting evidence from earlier clinical trials, may be adequate to submit an NDA for paclitaxel poliglumex even though the FDA has established a requirement that two adequate and well-controlled pivotal studies demonstrating a statistically significant improvement in overall survival will be required for approval of paclitaxel poliglumex in the NSCLC setting. We 24 Table of Contents may not receive compelling evidence or any positive results from the PGT307 trial, which would preclude our planned submission of an NDA to the FDA, and would preclude us from marketing paclitaxel poliglumex in the United States. Based on discussions with the EMEA Scientific Advice Working Party, we submitted an MAA in Europe on March 4, 2008 based on results of the STELLAR trials, however a successful regulatory outcome from the EMEA is not assured as the EMEA’s final opinion cannot be predicted until they have had the opportunity to complete a thorough review of the clinical data that will be presented in the MAA. We are subject to extensive government regulation. We are subject to rigorous and extensive regulation by the FDA in the United States and by comparable agencies in other states and countries. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements could result in various adverse consequences, including possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, withdrawal of approved products from the market, product seizures, injunctions, regulatory restrictions on our business and sales activities, monetary penalties, or criminal prosecution. Our products may not be marketed in the United States until they have been approved by the FDA and may not be marketed in other countries until they have received approval from the appropriate agencies. With the exception of Zevalin, none of our current products have received approval. Obtaining regulatory approval requires substantial time, effort and financial resources, and we may not be able to obtain approval of any of our products on a timely basis, or at all. If our products are not approved quickly enough to provide net revenues to defray our debt and operating expenses, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. Our marketed products, such as Zevalin, are and will be subject to extensive regulations regarding their promotion and commercialization. For instance, we are subject to numerous regulations and statutes regulating the manner of selling and obtaining reimbursement for our products that receive marketing approval. For example, federal statutes generally prohibit providing certain discounts and payments to physicians to encourage them to prescribe our product. Violations of such regulations or statutes may result in treble damages, criminal or civil penalties, fines or exclusion of CTI or its employees from participation in federal and state health care programs. Although we have policies prohibiting violations of relevant regulations and statutes, unauthorized actions of our employees or consultants, or unfavorable interpretations of such regulations or statutes may result in third parties or regulatory agencies bringing legal proceedings or enforcement actions against us. Because our sales force is relatively new, we may have a greater risk of such violations from lack of adequate training or experience. The expense to retain and pay legal counsel and consultants to defend against any such proceedings would be substantial, and together with the diversion of management’s time and attention to assist in any such defense, may negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, both before and after approval, our contract manufacturers and our products are subject to numerous regulatory requirements covering, among other things, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution and export. Manufacturing processes must conform to current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMPs. The FDA and other regulatory authorities periodically inspect manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMPs. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort to maintain compliance. Failure to comply with FDA, EMEA or other applicable regulations may cause us to curtail or stop the manufacture of such products until we obtain regulatory compliance. The marketing and promotion of pharmaceuticals is also heavily regulated, particularly with regard to prohibitions on the promotion of products for off-label uses. In April 2007, we paid a civil penalty of $10.5 million and entered into a settlement agreement with the United States Attorney’s Office, or USAO, for the Western District of Washington arising out of their investigation into certain of our prior marketing practices relating to TRISENOX, which was divested to Cephalon Inc. in July 2005. As part of that settlement agreement, and in connection with the acquisition of Zevalin, a commercially approved drug, we also entered into a 25 Table of Contents corporate integrity agreement with the HHS-OIG that requires us to establish a compliance committee and compliance program and adopt a formal code of conduct. The USAO settlement does not address separate claims brought against the Company by the private party plaintiff in this matter, which generally relate to attorney’s fees and employment related claims. In 2007, the United States District Court dismissed the private party plaintiff’s employment claims as barred by applicable statutes of limitation, and the private party plaintiff has advised us that he intends to seek a court order awarding approximately $1 million in attorneys’ fees. We are not able to reasonably estimate the potential cost of any award that may be made pursuant to this claim. We rely on third parties for the manufacture and supply of Zevalin and for the manufacture and supply of radioactive isotopes used in the administration of Zevalin. We currently rely on Biogen to manufacture and supply Zevalin to us through a long-term manufacturing agreement, and Biogen may, in turn, rely on other third-party manufacturers to fill its requirements for manufacturing Zevalin. If Biogen or any third party contract manufacturing organization, or CMO, or contract service provider, or CSP, upon which it relies does not produce or test and release Zevalin in sufficient quantities and on a timely and cost-effective basis, or if Biogen or any third party CMO or CSP does not obtain and maintain all required manufacturing approvals, our business could be harmed. In addition, we rely on MDS (Canada) for the manufacture and supply of Yttrium-90, a radioactive isotope used in the administration of Zevalin therapy. MDS (Canada) is currently our sole source of Yttrium-90, which must be manufactured and shipped in such a way as to ensure the appropriate potency of the isotope based on its radioactive half-life at the time of administration to the patient is valid. If MDS (Canada) were to have problems with the manufacture or supply of Yttrium-90, our business could be materially impacted, and we may not be able to find an additional supplier of the isotope on acceptable terms or at all. We also rely on Malinckrodt and GE for the manufacture and supply of Indium-111, a radioactive isotope used in the administration of Zevalin diagnostic for clinical purposes. Malinckrodt and GE are currently our two qualified sources of Indium-111, which must be manufactured and shipped in such a way as to ensure the appropriate potency of the isotope based on its radioactive half-life at the time of administration of the diagnostic dose to the patient. If both companies were to have problems with the manufacture or supply of Indium-111, our business could be materially impacted, and we may not be able to find an additional supplier of the isotope on acceptable terms or at all. We face direct and intense competition from our competitors in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, and we may not compete successfully against them. Competition in the oncology market is intense and is accentuated by the rapid pace of technological development. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter the market. Our competitors in the United States and elsewhere are numerous and include, among others, major multinational pharmaceutical companies, specialized biotechnology companies and universities and other research institutions. Specifically: • Zevalin currently competes with Bexxar®, which is marketed by GlaxoSmithKline, and any rituximab-containing chemotherapy regimen. Rituximab is marketed in the U.S. by Genentech and Biogen Idec. In addition, other companies such as Cephalon, Eli Lilly, Genta, Genmab, Favrille, and Genitope are developing products which could compete with Zevalin. • If we are successful in bringing paclitaxel poliglumex to market, we will face direct competition from oncology-focused multinational corporations. Paclitaxel poliglumex will compete with other taxanes. Many oncology-focused multinational corporations currently market or are developing taxanes, epothilones, and other cytotoxic agents, which inhibit cancer cells by a mechanism similar to taxanes, or similar products including, among others, Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and others, which markets paclitaxel and generic forms of paclitaxel; Aventis, which markets docetaxel; Genentech and OSI Pharmaceuticals, which markets Tarceva™; Genentech, which markets Avastin™, Eli Lilly, which markets Alimta®, and American Pharmaceutical Partners, which markets Abraxane™. In addition, other companies such as NeoPharm Inc. and Telik, Inc. are also developing products which could compete with paclitaxel poliglumex. 26 Table of Contents • Because pixantrone is intended to provide less toxic treatment to patients who have failed standard chemotherapy treatment, if pixantrone is brought to market, it is not expected to compete directly with many existing chemotherapies. However, pixantrone will face competition from currently marketed anthracyclines, such as mitoxantrone (Novantrone®), and new anti-cancer drugs with reduced toxicity that may be developed and marketed. • If we are successful in bringing brostallicin to market, we will face direct competition from other minor groove binding agents including Yondelis®, which is currently developed by PharmaMar and has received Authorization of Commercialization from the European Commission for soft tissue sarcoma. Many of our competitors, either alone or together with their collaborators and, in particular, the multinational pharmaceutical companies, have substantially greater financial resources and development and marketing teams than us. In addition, many of our competitors, either alone or together with their collaborators, have significantly greater experience than we do in developing, manufacturing and marketing products. As a result, these companies’ products might come to market sooner or might prove to be more effective, less expensive, have fewer side effects or be easier to administer than ours. In any such case, sales of our products or eventual products would likely suffer and we might never recoup the significant investments we are making to develop these product candidates. Uncertainty regarding third-party reimbursement and healthcare cost containment initiatives may limit our returns. The ongoing efforts of governmental and third-party payors to contain or reduce the cost of healthcare may affect our ability to commercialize our products successfully. Governmental and other third-party payors continue to attempt to contain healthcare costs by: • challenging the prices charged for health care products and services, • limiting both coverage and the amount of reimbursement for new therapeutic products, • denying or limiting coverage for products that are approved by the FDA but are considered experimental or investigational by third-party payors, • refusing in some cases to provide coverage when an approved product is used for disease indications in a way that has not received FDA marketing approval, and • denying coverage altogether. The trend toward managed healthcare in the United States, the growth of organizations such as health maintenance organizations, and legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance programs could significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and products, resulting in lower prices and reducing demand for our products. In addition, in almost all European markets, pricing and choice of prescription pharmaceuticals are subject to governmental control. Therefore, the price of our products and their reimbursement in Europe will be determined by national regulatory authorities. Even if we succeed in bringing any of our proposed products to the market, they may not be considered cost-effective and third-party reimbursement might not be available or sufficient. If adequate third-party coverage is not available, we may not be able to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in research and product development. As discussed above, CMS proposed new rates for 2008 for Zevalin that, if implemented, would result in reimbursement rates below our acquisition cost of Zevalin. In addition, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change in ways adverse to us before or after any of our proposed products are approved for marketing. 27 Table of Contents Even if our drug candidates are successful in clinical trials, we may not be able to successfully commercialize them. Since our inception in 1991, we have dedicated substantially all of our resources to the research and development of our technologies and related compounds. All of our compounds, with the exception of Zevalin, currently are in research or development, and have not received marketing approval. Prior to commercialization, each product candidate requires significant research, development and preclinical testing and extensive clinical investigation before submission of any regulatory application for marketing approval. The development of anti-cancer drugs, including those we are currently developing, is unpredictable and subject to numerous risks. Potential products that appear to be promising at early stages of development may not reach the market for a number of reasons including that they may: • be found ineffective or cause harmful side effects during preclinical testing or clinical trials, • fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals, • be difficult to manufacture on a scale necessary for commercialization, • be uneconomical to produce, • fail to achieve market acceptance, or • be precluded from commercialization by proprietary rights of third parties. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect the commercialization of our products. Products, if introduced, may not be successfully marketed and/or may not achieve customer acceptance. If we fail to commercialize products or if our future products do not achieve significant market acceptance, we will not likely generate significant revenues or become profitable. The intellectual property and assets related to Zevalin are subject to a security agreement with Biogen; if we were to default on certain payments or reimbursement owed to Biogen or certain third parties, those assets would be subject to foreclosure by Biogen and we could lose our ability to continue development, sales and marketing activities with respect to Zevalin. In connection with our purchase of Zevalin, we entered into a Security Agreement with Biogen granting a first priority security interest to Biogen in all of our right, title and interest (a) in and to the assets related to Zevalin that we purchased from Biogen, together with any other assets or rights related to any of such assets or otherwise used in the development, manufacture or commercialization of Zevalin, and (b) under certain license, sublicense and supply agreements entered into in connection with our purchase of Zevalin. In the event we were to default on certain of our obligations under the Security Agreement, the Asset Purchase Agreement pursuant to which we continue to owe royalties and milestone payments to Biogen, or the related sublicense and service agreements, or in the event we were to make an application for, or consent to, the appointment of a receiver, trustee or liquidator of all or a substantial portion of our assets, transfer our assets as part of a general assignment or other arrangement for the benefit of creditors, become insolvent, file a voluntary or involuntary petition under the provisions of the United States Bankruptcy Code, or in the event of an attachment or execution upon, or seizure of, all or substantially all of our assets, Biogen may take any action with respect to the collateral under the Security Agreement that it deems necessary or advisable to accomplish the purposes of the Security Agreement. The Security Agreement will remain in effect until all obligations secured by that agreement have been satisfied. If Biogen were to foreclose on the collateral under this Security Agreement, it would have a material adverse impact on our business. 28 Table of Contents If any of our license agreements for intellectual property underlying Zevalin, paclitaxel poliglumex, pixantrone, brostallicin, or any other products are terminated, we may lose our rights to develop or market that product. We have licensed intellectual property, including patent applications relating to intellectual property for pixantrone, brostallicin and Zevalin. We have also in-licensed the intellectual property for our drug delivery technology relating to paclitaxel poliglumex that uses polymers that are linked to drugs, known as polymer-drug conjugates. Some of our product development programs depend on our ability to maintain rights under these licenses. Each licensor has the power to terminate its agreement with us if we fail to meet our obligations under these licenses. We may not be able to meet our obligations under these licenses. If we default under any license agreements, we may lose our right to market and sell any products based on the licensed technology. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, our competitive position could be harmed. Development and protection of our intellectual property are critical to our business. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to practice our technologies. Our success depends in part on our ability to: • obtain patent protection for our products or processes both in the United States and other countries, • protect trade secrets, and • prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. When polymers are linked, or conjugated, to drugs, the results are referred to as polymer-drug conjugates. We are developing drug delivery technology that links chemotherapy to biodegradable polymers. For example, paclitaxel poliglumex is paclitaxel, the active ingredient in Taxol®, one of the world’s best selling cancer drugs, linked to polyglutamate. We may not receive a patent for all of our polymer-drug conjugates and we may be challenged by the holder of a patent covering the underlying drug and/or methods for its use or manufacture. The patent position of biopharmaceutical firms generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has not established a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims that it will allow in biotechnology patents. If it allows broad claims, the number and cost of patent interference proceedings in the United States and the risk of infringement litigation may increase. If it allows narrow claims, the risk of infringement may decrease, but the value of our rights under our patents, licenses and patent applications may also decrease. Patent applications in which we have rights may never issue as patents and the claims of any issued patents may not afford meaningful protection for our technologies or products. In addition, patents issued to us or our licensors may be challenged and subsequently narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. Litigation, interference proceedings or other governmental proceedings that we may become involved in with respect to our proprietary technologies or the proprietary technology of others could result in substantial cost to us. Patent litigation is widespread in the biotechnology industry, and any patent litigation could harm our business. Costly litigation might be necessary to protect a patent position or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights, and we may not have the required resources to pursue any such litigation or to protect our patent rights. Any adverse outcome in litigation with respect to the infringement or validity of any patents owned by third parties could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease using a product or technology. We also rely upon trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation to remain competitive. Third parties may independently develop such know-how or otherwise obtain access to our technology. While we require our employees, consultants and corporate partners with access to proprietary information to enter into confidentiality agreements, these agreements may not be honored. 29 Table of Contents Our products could infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to engage in costly litigation and, if unsuccessful, could cause us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from selling our products. We attempt to monitor patent filings but have not conducted an exhaustive search for patents that may be relevant to our products and product candidates in an effort to guide the design and development of our products to avoid infringement. We may not be able to successfully challenge the validity of these patents and could have to pay substantial damages, possibly including treble damages, for past infringement and attorneys’ fees if it is ultimately determined that our products infringe a third party’s patents. Further, we may be prohibited from selling our products before we obtain a license, which, if available at all, may require us to pay substantial royalties. Moreover, third parties may challenge the patents that have been issued or licensed to us. Even if infringement claims against us are without merit, or if we challenge the validity of issued patents, lawsuits take significant time, may be expensive and may divert management attention from other business concerns. We may be unable to obtain the raw materials necessary to produce our paclitaxel poliglumex product candidate in sufficient quantity to meet demand when and if such product is approved. We may not be able to continue to purchase the materials necessary to produce paclitaxel poliglumex, including paclitaxel, in adequate volume and quality. Paclitaxel is derived from certain varieties of yew trees and the supply of paclitaxel is controlled by a limited number of companies. Paclitaxel is available and we have purchased it from several sources. We purchase the raw materials paclitaxel and polyglutamic acid from a single source on a purchase order basis. Should the paclitaxel or polyglutamic acid purchased from our sources prove to be insufficient in quantity or quality, should a supplier fail to deliver in a timely fashion or at all, or should these relationships terminate, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient supply from alternate sources on acceptable terms, or at all. Our dependence on third-party manufacturers means that we do not always have direct control over the manufacture, testing or distribution of our products. We do not currently have internal analytical laboratory or manufacturing facilities to allow the testing or production and distribution of drug products in compliance with cGMPs. Because we do not directly control our suppliers, these vendors may not be able to provide us with finished product when we need it. We will be dependent upon these third parties to supply us in a timely manner with products manufactured in compliance with cGMPs or similar manufacturing standards imposed by US and/or foreign regulatory authorities where our products will be tested and/or marketed. While the FDA and other regulatory authorities maintain oversight for cGMP compliance of drug manufacturers, contract manufacturers may at times violate cGMPs. The FDA and other regulatory authorities may take action against a contract manufacturer who violates cGMPs. One of our products under development, paclitaxel poliglumex, has a complex manufacturing process, which may prevent us from obtaining a sufficient supply of drug product for the clinical trials and commercial activities currently planned or underway on a timely basis, if at all. The active pharmaceutical ingredients and finished products for pixantrone and brostallicin are both manufactured by a single vendor. The drug substance for Zevalin is produced under contract by Biogen and the drug product and finished product is manufactured and distributed at a contract manufacturer and contract distribution facility. If we do not successfully develop additional products, we may be unable to generate significant revenue or become profitable. We divested our commercial product, TRISENOX, in July 2005 and only acquired a new commercial product, Zevalin, in December 2007. Our ability to generate significant revenues from Zevalin is dependent in part on our ability to find new markets for the product, including through gaining wider acceptance and use of the drug by physicians and through FDA approval of expanded uses for the product. There is no guarantee that we 30 Table of Contents will be successful in accomplishing either of these goals. Paclitaxel poliglumex, pixantrone, brostallicin and label expansions for Zevalin are currently in clinical trials and may not be successful. For example, our STELLAR phase III clinical trials for paclitaxel poliglumex for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer failed to meet their primary endpoints. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including us, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after reporting promising results in earlier trials. We will need to commit significant time and resources to develop this and additional product candidates. Our product candidates will be successful only if: • our product candidates are developed to a stage that will enable us to commercialize them or sell related marketing rights to pharmaceutical companies; • we are able to commercialize product candidates in clinical development or sell the marketing rights to third parties; and • our product candidates, if developed, are approved by the regulatory authorities. We are dependent on the successful completion of these goals in order to generate revenues. The failure to generate such revenues may preclude us from continuing our research and development of these and other product candidates. If we are unable to enter into new licensing arrangements, our future product portfolio and potential profitability could be harmed. One component of our business strategy is in-licensing drug compounds developed by other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies or academic research laboratories. Substantially all of our product candidates in clinical development are in-licensed from a third party, including Zevalin, paclitaxel poliglumex, pixantrone, and brostallicin. Competition for new promising compounds and commercial products can be intense. If we are not able to identify future in-licensing opportunities and enter into future licensing arrangements on acceptable terms, our future product portfolio and potential profitability could be harmed. We may take longer to complete our clinical trials than we expect, or we may not be able to complete them at all. Before regulatory approval for any potential product can be obtained, we must undertake extensive clinical testing on humans to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the product. Although for planning purposes we forecast the commencement and completion of clinical trials, the actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to a number of factors. On March 4, 2008, we submitted an MAA to the EMEA for paclitaxel poliglumex, however, we do not expect a regulatory decision on an MAA prior to the second half of 2009. Analysis of the data from our EXTEND trial is expected in the second half of 2008 and, if final study results are adequate, we could submit an NDA with the FDA in early 2009 with potential approval in the second half of 2009. We may not obtain authorization to permit product candidates that are already in the preclinical development phase to enter the human clinical testing phase. Authorized preclinical or clinical testing may not be completed successfully within any specified time period by us, or without significant additional resources or expertise to those originally expected to be necessary. Many drugs in human clinical trials fail to demonstrate the desired safety and efficacy characteristics. Clinical testing may not show potential products to be safe and efficacious and potential products may not be approved for a specific indication. Further, the results from preclinical studies and early clinical trials may not be indicative of the results that will be obtained in later-stage clinical trials. Data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations. Government regulators and our collaborators may not agree with our interpretation of our clinical trial results. In addition, we or regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials at any time on the basis that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. Completion of clinical trials depends on, among other things, 31 Table of Contents the number of patients available for enrollment in a particular trial, which is a function of many factors, including the number of patients with the relevant conditions, the nature of the clinical testing, the proximity of patients to clinical testing centers, the eligibility criteria for tests as well as competition with other clinical testing programs involving the same patient profile but different treatments. We have limited experience in conducting clinical trials. We expect to continue to rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, academic institutions and/or cooperative groups, to conduct, oversee and monitor clinical trials as well as to process the clinical results and manage test requests, which may result in delays or failure to complete trials if the third parties fail to perform or to meet the applicable standards. If we fail to commence or complete, need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned or experience delays in any of our present or planned clinical trials, our development costs may increase and/or our ability to commercialize our product candidates may be adversely affected. If delays or costs are significant, our financial results and our ability to commercialize our product candidates may be adversely affected. If we fail to establish and maintain collaborations or if our partners do not perform, we may be unable to develop and commercialize our product candidates. We have entered into collaborative arrangements with third-parties to develop and/or commercialize product candidates and are currently seeking additional collaborations. For example, we entered into an agreement with the Gynecologic Oncology Group to perform a phase III trial of paclitaxel poliglumex in patients with ovarian cancer. Additional collaborations might be necessary in order for us to fund our research and development activities and third-party manufacturing arrangements, seek and obtain regulatory approvals and successfully commercialize our existing and future product candidates. If we fail to enter into additional collaborative arrangements or fail to maintain our existing collaborative arrangements, the number of product candidates from which we could receive future revenues would decline. For example, in 2005 we sold our product TRISENOX to Cephalon and, pursuant to the terms of the purchase agreement under which TRISENOX was sold, we are entitled to receive milestone payments upon the approval by the FDA of new labeled uses for TRISENOX, however, Cephalon may decide not to submit any additional information to the FDA to apply for label expansion of TRISENOX, in which case we would not receive a milestone payment under the agreement. Our dependence on collaborative arrangements with third parties will subject us to a number of risks that could harm our ability to develop and commercialize products, including that: • collaborative arrangements may not be on terms favorable to us; • disagreements with partners may result in delays in the development and marketing of products, termination of our collaboration agreements or time consuming and expensive legal action; • we cannot control the amount and timing of resources partners devote to product candidates or their prioritization of product candidates and partners may not allocate sufficient funds or resources to the development, promotion or marketing of our products, or may not perform their obligations as expected; • partners may choose to develop, independently or with other companies, alternative products or treatments, including products or treatments which compete with ours; • agreements with partners may expire or be terminated without renewal, or partners may breach collaboration agreements with us; • business combinations or significant changes in a partner’s business strategy might adversely affect that partner’s willingness or ability to complete its obligations to us; and • the terms and conditions of the relevant agreements may no longer be suitable. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect the development or commercialization of our products. 32 Table of Contents Because we base several of our drug candidates on unproven novel technologies, we may never develop them into commercial products. We base several of our product candidates upon novel technologies that we are using to develop drugs for the treatment of cancer. These technologies have not been proven. Furthermore, preclinical results in animal studies may not predict outcomes in human clinical trials. Our product candidates may not be proven safe or effective. If these technologies do not work, our drug candidates may not develop into commercial products. We are subject to additional legal duties, additional operational challenges and additional political and economic risks related to our operations in Italy. A portion of our business is based in Italy. We are subject to duties and risks arising from doing business in Italy, such as: • Italian employment law, including collective bargaining agreements negotiated at the national level and over which we have no control; • European data protection regulations, under which we will be unable to send private personal data, including many employment records and some clinical trial data, from our Italian offices to our U.S. offices until our U.S. offices self-certify their adherence to the safe harbor framework established by the U. S. Department of Commerce in consultation with the European Commission; • tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers; and • capital controls, terrorism and other political risks. We are also subject to the following operational challenges, among others, as a result of having a portion of our business and operations based in Italy: • effectively pursuing the clinical development and regulatory approvals of all product candidates; • successfully commercializing products under development; • coordinating research and development activities to enhance introduction of new products and technologies; • coalescing the Italian business culture with our own and maintaining employee morale; and • maintaining appropriate uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies relating to financial reporting and employment related matters, and the conduct of development activities that comply with both U.S. and Italian laws and regulations. We may not succeed in addressing these challenges, risks and duties, any of which may be exacerbated by the geographic separation of our operations in the United States and in Italy. These risks related to doing business in Italy could harm the results of our operations. Because there is a risk of product liability associated with our products, we face potential difficulties in obtaining insurance. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks inherent in the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of human pharmaceutical products, and we may not be able to avoid significant product liability exposure. While we have insurance covering marketing and sales of Zevalin as well as product use in our clinical trials for our product candidates, it is possible that we will not be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that any insurance obtained will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Our inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or limit the commercialization of Zevalin or any products we develop. A successful product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage could exceed our net worth. 33 Table of Contents Adverse events related to our products can negatively impact our product sales and results from operations. Our commercial product, Zevalin, has the possibility of causing significant side effects in patients, and deaths associated with an infusion reaction symptom complex, though rare, have occurred within 24 hours of infusions of rituximab, a component of Zevalin. In addition, Yttrium-90 Zevalin administration often results in severe and prolonged cytopenias in most patients, while severe cutaneous and mucocutaneous reactions have also been reported. While side effects are common in oncology drugs, adverse events such as these could negatively impact sales of Zevalin, which in turn could negatively impact our results from operations. Since we use hazardous materials in our business, we may be subject to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. We are subject to international, federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such materials and certain waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by the regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated completely. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability not covered by insurance could exceed our resources. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. We may not be able to conduct animal testing in the future, which could harm our research and development activities. Certain of our research and development activities involve animal testing. Such activities have been the subject of controversy and adverse publicity. Animal rights groups and other organizations and individuals have attempted to stop animal testing activities by pressing for legislation and regulation in these areas and by disrupting activities through protests and other means. To the extent the activities of these groups are successful, our business could be materially harmed by delaying or interrupting our research and development activities. Our operations in Italy make us subject to increased risk regarding currency exchange rate fluctuations. As a result of operations in Italy, we are exposed to risks associated with foreign currency transactions insofar as we use U.S. dollars to make contract payments denominated in euros or vice versa. As the net positions of our foreign currency transactions might fluctuate, our earnings might be negatively affected. In addition, we are exposed to risks associated with the translation of euro-denominated financial results and accounts into U.S. dollars. Our reporting currency will remain as the U.S. dollar; however, a portion of our consolidated financial obligations will arise in euros. In addition, the carrying value of some of our assets and liabilities will be affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to the euro. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to the euro might have an adverse effect on our reported results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related To the Securities Markets Our stock price is extremely volatile, which may affect our ability to raise capital in the future and may subject the value of your investment in our securities to sudden decreases. The market price for securities of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including ours, historically has been highly volatile, and the market from time to time has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. For example, during the twelve month period ended March 19, 2008, our stock price, as adjusted to reflect the one-for-four reverse stock split effected in April 2007, has ranged from a low of $0.47 to a high of $7.56. Fluctuations in the trading price or liquidity of our common stock may adversely affect the value of your investment in our common stock. 34 Table of Contents Factors that may have a significant impact on the market price and marketability of our securities include: • announcements by us or others of results of preclinical testing and clinical trials and regulatory actions; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial therapeutic products by us, our collaborative partners or our present or potential competitors; • our issuance of additional debt, equity or other securities, which we need to pursue in 2008 to generate additional funds to cover our current debt and operating expenses; • our quarterly operating results; • developments or disputes concerning patent or other proprietary rights; • developments in our relationships with collaborative partners; • acquisitions or divestitures; • litigation and government proceedings; • adverse legislation, including changes in governmental regulation; • third-party reimbursement policies; • changes in securities analysts’ recommendations; • changes in health care policies and practices; • economic and other external factors; and • general market conditions. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. For example, in the case of our company, beginning in March 2005, several class action lawsuits were instituted against CTI and certain directors and officers of CTI and a derivative action lawsuit was filed against CTI’s full board of directors. While these lawsuits were dismissed with prejudice, as a result of these types of lawsuits, we could incur substantial legal fees and our management’s attention and resources could be diverted from operating our business as we respond to the litigation. We maintain significant insurance to cover these risks for the Company and our directors and officers, but our insurance is subject to high deductibles to reduce premium expense, and there is no guarantee that the insurance will cover any specific claim that we may face in the future, or that it will be adequate to cover all potential liabilities and damages. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Market and we may not be able to maintain that listing, which may make it more difficult for investors to sell shares of our common stock. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. The Nasdaq Global Market has several quantitative and qualitative requirements companies must comply with to maintain this listing, including a $1.00 minimum bid price per share and $50 million minimum value of listed securities. As of March 20, 2008, our common stock had a closing bid price below $1.00 for 13 consecutive days. If our closing bid price remains below $1.00 for 30 consecutive days, under the current Nasdaq Global Market rules we will have a period of 180 days to attain compliance by again meeting the $1.00 minimum bid price. We would then have the option to transfer to the Nasdaq Capital Market, assuming we meet all other initial listing qualifications for the Nasdaq Capital Market, where we can receive an additional 180 days to regain compliance. If we are unable to attain compliance with the minimum bid price we may be delisted. In addition, if we fail to maintain the minimum value of listed securities, we may have to transfer to the Nasdaq Capital Market or may be delisted. The level of trading activity of our common stock may decline if it is no longer listed on the Nasdaq Global Market or Nasdaq Capital Market. Furthermore, our failure to maintain a listing on the Nasdaq market may constitute an event of default under certain of our indebtedness which would accelerate the maturity date of such date. As such, if our 35 Table of Contents common stock ceases to be listed for trading on the Nasdaq Global Market or Nasdaq Capital Market for any reason, it may harm our stock price, increase the volatility of our stock price and make it more difficult for investors to sell shares of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Washington law could make removal of incumbent management or an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our shareholders, more difficult. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of deterring or delaying attempts by our shareholders to remove or replace management, to commence proxy contests, or to effect changes in control. These provisions include: • a classified board so that only approximately one third of the board of directors is elected each year; • elimination of cumulative voting in the election of directors; • procedures for advance notification of shareholder nominations and proposals; • the ability of our board of directors to amend our bylaws without shareholder approval; and • the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without shareholder approval upon the terms and conditions and with the rights, privileges and preferences as the board of directors may determine. In addition, as a Washington corporation, we are subject to Washington law which imposes restrictions on some transactions between a corporation and certain significant shareholders. These provisions, alone or together, could have the effect of deterring or delaying changes in incumbent management, proxy contests or changes in control. Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 