Risk Factors: Risks Associated with our Business — If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, we may lose our competitive position and future revenues” for a discussion of additional risks related to intellectual property rights. Employees As of December 31, 2007 and 2006 we had 32 and 70 full-time employees, respectively. In May 2007, we determined that our sales force driven business strategy was not generating an appropriate return and took action to terminate that strategy. We began the process of examining different strategies to best position Acthar to benefit patients, advance our product development programs, and preserve our capital. As part of this process, we reduced the number of members of the our field organization by approximately 70%, announced the departure of our former Chief Executive Officer, and appointed Don Bailey, a member of the our board of directors, as our Interim President. Mr. Bailey was subsequently appointed President and Chief Executive Officer in November 2007. The reduction of the field organization was completed on May 25, 2007. Our one-time expense was comprised of $285,000 for severance benefits and $166,000 for other associated costs. The one-time expense is included in Selling, General, and Administrative Expense in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2007. We estimate that this reduction eliminated between $4.0 million and $5.0 million of annualized cash expenses associated with the field organization. In August 2007, we announced a new strategy and business model for Acthar. In connection with the new strategy, we implemented a new pricing level for Acthar which was effective August 27, 2007. We also expanded our sponsorship of Acthar patient assistance and co-pay assistance programs, which provide an important safety net 10 Table of Contents for uninsured and under-insured patients using Acthar, and established a group of 10 product service consultants and 4 medical science liaisons to work with healthcare providers who administer Acthar. The new Acthar strategy, as demonstrated by our 2007 results, has significantly improved our ability to maintain the long-term availability of Acthar and fund important research and development projects. Our continued success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain key employees. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement, nor have we experienced work stoppages. Website Address Our website address is http://www.questcor.com. We make available free of charge through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to these reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC, by providing a hyperlink to the SEC’s website directly to such reports. Financial Information Please refer to Item 6, “Selected Consolidated Financial Data,” for a review of our financial results and financial position for the five years ended December 31, 2007, and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for a review of revenue and net income (loss) for the three years ended December 31, 2007. Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Associated with the Implementation of our new Strategy and Business Model for Acthar Summary Overview The implementation of our new strategy and business model for Acthar creates risks and uncertainties, including risks associated with the possibility of declining unit sales, the refusal of third-party payors to provide reimbursement for purchases of Acthar, a greater proportion of our Acthar unit sales being comprised of product dispensed to Medicaid eligible patients and government entities where we do not expect to recognize any net sales, and that the actual amount of rebates and discounts on Acthar dispensed to Medicaid eligible patients and government entities may differ materially from our estimates. We could also receive negative publicity as a result of our adoption of this new strategy, and responding from inquiries from the press or patient advocacy groups, or dealing with litigation against us, could divert the attention of key employees from operating our business. Many of these risks are further described below. We may be negatively affected by lower reimbursement levels. Our ability to generate revenues is affected by the availability of reimbursement for Acthar and our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if we fail to maintain an adequate level of reimbursement for Acthar from third party payors. The sale of Acthar will depend in part on the availability of reimbursement from third party payors such as state and federal governments (for example, under Medicare and Medicaid programs in the United States) and private insurance plans. In the United States, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of state and federal proposals that limit the amount that state or federal governments will pay to reimburse the cost of drugs, including Acthar. We believe the increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has and will continue to put pressure on the price and usage of Acthar, which may also impact Acthar’s sales. In addition, current reimbursement policies for Acthar may change at any time. Changes in reimbursement or our failure to obtain reimbursement for Acthar may reduce the demand for, or the price of, Acthar, which could result in lower Acthar sales, thereby weakening our competitive position and negatively impacting our results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Regulatory changes could negatively affect the implementation of our new strategy. In the United States, proposals have called for substantial changes in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Any such changes enacted may require significant reductions from currently projected government expenditures for these programs. The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement, and Modernization Act, enacted in December 2003, provides for, among other things, an immediate reduction in the Medicare reimbursement rates for many drugs administered in a physician’s office. The Medicare Act, as well as other changes in government legislation or regulation or in private third party payors’ policies toward reimbursement for Acthar, may reduce or eliminate reimbursement for Acthar. In addition, if the Medicare Act was amended, or other regulations were adopted, to impose direct governmental price controls and access restrictions, it would have a significant adverse impact on our business. Driven by budget concerns, Medicaid managed care systems have been implemented in several states and local metropolitan areas. If the Medicare and Medicaid programs implement changes that restrict the access of a significant population of patients to innovative medicines, the market acceptance of these products may be reduced. We are unable to predict what impact the Medicare Act or other future legislation, if any, relating to third party reimbursement, will have on Acthar’s sales. We are in the process of identifying a long term strategy. Since August 2007, we have been heavily focused on executing our newly adopted strategy and business model for Acthar. While we will continue to focus on maximizing the benefits of the new Acthar strategy, we have recently begun a process to identify our long-term business growth strategy. Any such strategy will likely involve pharmaceutical products, but no specific potential business growth strategies have yet been presented to our board of directors. Accordingly, there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the business growth strategy which we may ultimately adopt. Although we will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in each contemplated business growth strategy, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. Risks Associated with our Business We have a history of operating losses and have only recently generated sufficient revenue to achieve profitability. We have a history of recurring operating losses, and our accumulated deficit through December 31, 2007 was $51.7 million. We recognized net income applicable to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2007, however, this was primarily attributable to our implementation of our new strategy and business model for Acthar during the year, and there can be no assurance that this new strategy and business model will result in continued profitability. For the year ended December 31, 2007, sales of Acthar represented 98% of our total net sales. We expect to continue to rely on this product for substantially all of our product sales for the foreseeable future. We cannot predict whether the demand for Acthar will continue in the future or that we will continue to generate significant revenues from sales of Acthar. If we are forced to reduce the price for Acthar, the demand for Acthar declines, if third-party payors refuse to provide reimbursement for purchases of Acthar, if we are forced to re-negotiate contracts or terms, or if our customers do not comply with our existing policies, our revenues from the sale of Acthar would decline. If the cost to produce Acthar increases, our gross margins on the sale of Acthar would decline. If our revenues from the sale of Acthar decline, our total revenues, gross margins and operating results would be harmed We may not be able to fully utilize for our benefit our cumulative net operating losses. As of December 31, 2007, we had federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of $39.3 million and $17.4 million, respectively, and federal and California research and development tax credits of $748,000 and $1.1 million, respectively. Of these amounts, $29.4 million and $17.4 million of federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, respectively, and $157,000 and $180,000 of federal and California research and development credits, respectively, are available to reduce our 2008 taxable income. We have established a valuation allowance of $5.2 million for deferred tax assets related to $9.9 million of our federal net operating loss carryforwards, $591,000 of federal research and development credit carryforwards, $458,000 of California research and development credit 12 Table of Contents carryforwards, and other state temporary differences, as it was not considered more likely than not as of December 31, 2007 that such deferred tax assets will be realized. The federal and state net operating loss carryforwards and the federal research and development credit carryforwards expire at various dates beginning in the years 2008 through 2026, if not utilized. Utilization of our net operating loss and research and development credit carryforwards may still be subject to substantial annual limitations due to the ownership change limitations provided by the Internal Revenue Code and similar state provisions for ownership changes after December 31, 2007. Such an annual limitation could result in the expiration of the net operating loss and research and development credit carryforwards available as of December 31, 2007 before utilization. We may experience Acthar distribution problems as a result of the outsourcing of our Acthar distribution functions to CuraScript. During July 2007 we began utilizing CuraScript, a third party specialty distributor, to store and distribute Acthar. On August 1, 2007, we stopped selling Acthar to wholesalers and we now rely on CuraScript for all of our proceeds from sales of Acthar in the United States. The outsourcing of these functions is complex, and we may experience difficulties that could reduce, delay or stop shipments of Acthar. If we encounter such distribution problems, Acthar could become unavailable, resulting in either lost revenues or higher than anticipated Acthar distribution costs. If competitors develop and market products that are similar to ours, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. A number of companies are pursuing the development of pharmaceuticals and products that target the same diseases and conditions that we target. We cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of potentially competitive products or their possible effect on our sales. Certain potentially competitive products to Acthar are in various stages of development, some of which have been filed for approval with the FDA or have been approved by regulatory authorities in other countries. Vigabatrin is a potentially competitive product that is currently approved for use in Canada and is under review in the United States by the FDA for the treatment of infantile spasms. The FDA accepted for review the Vigabatrin NDA for use in the United States in February 2008 and assigned it a priority review. Should Vigabatrin receive approval to be used in the United States, the result could be detrimental to Acthar’s sales. Prednisone and prednisolone are the generic names for anti-inflammatory corticosteroid drugs that are used to treat various types of inflammation. One off-label use of these drugs has been to treat infantile spasms. Should more doctors prescribe prednisone or prednisolone to target the same diseases and conditions that Acthar targets, the result could be detrimental to current Acthar sales. Two additional potentially competitive drugs to Acthar that we are currently monitoring are Synacthen and Ganaxolone. Synacthen has been approved in the European Union for use in treating exacerbations associated with multiple sclerosis. We are not presently aware of any effort to attempt to gain FDA approval for marketing Synacthen in the U.S. Ganaxolone is currently undergoing a Phase IIb study for the treatment of infantile spasms, but is not currently approved in any jurisdiction. Both Synacthen and Ganaxolone could potentially compete with Acthar in the future should they ever receive the necessary FDA and regulatory approvals. Some of the companies developing competing technologies and products have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in development, manufacturing, obtaining regulatory approvals, and marketing than we do. Other smaller companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. 13 Table of Contents If we are unable to contract with third party contract manufacturers, we may be unable to meet the demand for our products and lose potential revenues. We rely on contract manufacturers to produce our existing products, and will likely do the same for other products that we may develop, commercialize or acquire in the future. Contract manufacturers may not be able to meet our needs with respect to timing, cost, quantity or quality. All of our manufacturers are sole-source manufacturers and no currently qualified alternative suppliers exist. If we are unable to contract for a sufficient supply of our required products and services on acceptable terms, or if we should encounter delays or difficulties in our relationships with our manufacturers, or if any required approvals by the FDA and other regulatory authorities do not occur on a timely basis, we will lose sales. Moreover, contract manufacturers that we may use must continually adhere to current good manufacturing practices enforced by the FDA. If the facilities of these manufacturers cannot pass an inspection, we may lose FDA approval of our products. Failure to obtain products for sale for any reason may result in an inability to meet product demand and a loss of potential revenues. The loss of our key management personnel could have an adverse impact on future operations. We are highly dependent on the services of the principal members of our senior management team, and the loss of a member of senior management could create significant disruption in our ability to provide Acthar to our customers. We do not carry key person life insurance for our senior management or other personnel. Additionally, the future potential growth and expansion of our business is expected to place increased demands on our management skills and resources. Recruiting and retaining management and operational personnel to perform sales and marketing, financial operations, business development, clinical development, regulatory affairs, quality assurance, medical affairs and contract manufacturing in the future will also be critical to our success. We do not know if we will be able to attract and retain skilled and experienced management and operational personnel in the future on acceptable terms given the intense competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for such personnel. If we are unable to hire necessary skilled personnel in the future, our business could be harmed. We are subject to numerous governmental regulations and it can be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant products and processes. Any products that we develop are subject to regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United States, including the FDA, and by similar agencies in other countries. Any product that we develop must receive all relevant regulatory approvals or clearances before it may be marketed in a particular country. The regulatory process, which may include extensive pre-clinical studies and clinical trials of each product to establish its safety and efficacy, is uncertain, can take many years, and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval or clearance. In addition, delays or rejections may be encountered based upon changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development and the period of review of any application for regulatory approval or clearance for a product. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or clearances could: • stall the marketing, selling and distribution of any products that we develop, • impose significant additional costs on us, • diminish any competitive advantages that we may attain, and • decrease our ability to generate revenues and profits. Regulatory approval, if granted, may entail limitations on the indicated uses for which a new product may be marketed that could limit the potential market for the product. Product approvals, once granted, may be withdrawn if problems occur after initial marketing. Furthermore, manufacturers of approved products are subject to pervasive review, including compliance with detailed regulations governing FDA good manufacturing practices. The FDA periodically revises the good manufacturing practices regulations. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or 14 Table of Contents partial suspension of production, refusal of the government to grant marketing applications and criminal prosecution. In addition, we cannot predict the extent of government regulations or the impact of new governmental regulations that may result in a delay in the development, production and marketing of our products. As such, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with current or future laws or regulations. We cannot predict whether the FDA will approve our sNDA for Acthar or for our other products in our development pipeline. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the FDA requested additional information for our supplemental new drug application seeking approval for Acthar for the treatment of infantile spasms. In addition, we continued our clinical development program under our investigational new drug application with the FDA for QSC-001. There can be no assurance that our efforts to develop QSC-001 or obtain approval of Acthar for infantile spasm will be successful or will not be delayed due to regulatory or other factors. We cannot provide assurances that we will remain in compliance with all regulatory requirements. No assurance can be given that we will remain in compliance with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements for our currently marketed products or any new product once clearance or approval has been obtained. These requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling and post-marketing reporting, including adverse event reports and field alerts due to manufacturing quality concerns. Additionally, the facilities and procedures of our suppliers are subject to ongoing regulation, including periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. A significant percentage of Acthar prescriptions is for IS, an indication which is not an approved indication for Acthar. While physicians may lawfully prescribe Acthar for IS and other off-label uses, any promotion by us of off-label uses would be unlawful. Some of our practices intended to respond to questions from physicians with respect to off-label uses of Acthar without engaging in off-label promotion could nonetheless be construed as off-label promotion. Although we have policies and procedures in place designed to help assure ongoing compliance with regulatory requirements regarding off-label promotion, some non-compliant actions may nonetheless occur. Regulatory authorities could take enforcement action against us if they believe we are promoting, or have promoted, our products for off-label use. Also, the label for Acthar includes a list of indications for which Acthar has not been actively promoted or prescribed for in several years, if ever. It is possible that the FDA could, in the context of reviewing our sNDA for IS or otherwise, conduct a review of the Acthar label and require us to provide data to the FDA regarding the safety and efficacy of Acthar relating to these indications. If we are unable to provide satisfactory data, it is possible that the FDA could require us to remove various indications from the label of approved uses of Acthar. We must incur expense and spend time and effort to ensure compliance with complex regulations. Possible regulatory actions could include warning letters, fines, damages, injunctions, civil penalties, recalls, seizures of our products and criminal prosecution. These actions could result in, among other things, substantial modifications to our business practices and operations; refunds, recalls or a total or partial shutdown of production in one or more of our suppliers’ facilities while our suppliers remedy the alleged violation; the inability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals; and withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. Any of these events could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. Our current pipeline of new products is limited and any products that we may acquire or develop may not be accepted by the market, which may result in lower future revenues as well as a decline in our competitive positioning. Any products that we successfully acquire or develop in the future, if approved for marketing, may never achieve market acceptance. These products, if successfully acquired or developed, may compete with drugs and therapies manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical and other biotechnology companies. Physicians, patients or the medical community in general may not accept and utilize the products that we may develop. 15 Table of Contents The degree of market acceptance of our commercial products and any products that we successfully acquire or develop will depend on a number of factors, including: • the establishment and demonstration of the clinical efficacy and safety of the product candidates, • their potential advantage over alternative treatment methods and competing products, • reimbursement policies of government and third party payors, and • our ability to market and promote the products effectively. If we are unable to achieve market acceptance for any products that we successfully acquire or develop in the future, we may not achieve profitability and may ultimately be unable to fund our operations. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, we may lose our competitive position and future revenues. We do not have patents on our existing commercial products. However, our success will depend in part on our ability to: • obtain patents for our products and technologies, • protect trade secrets, • operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others, and • prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. We will only be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that these rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets and are otherwise protectable under applicable law. We will attempt to protect our proprietary position by filing U.S. and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary products, technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. The patent positions of biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. Patents, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Thus, any patents that we own or license from third parties may not provide any protection against competitors. Pending patent applications we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties, may not result in patents being issued. Also, patent rights may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology that we have developed or we will develop. The laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We currently seek protection, in part, through confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for proprietary technology in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential and proprietary information. The parties may not comply with or may breach these agreements. Furthermore, our trade secrets may otherwise become known to, or be independently developed by competitors. Our success will further depend, in part, on our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. If our activities infringe on patents owned by others, we could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves in suits brought against a licensor or us. Should our products or technologies be found to infringe on patents issued to third parties, the manufacture, use and sale of our products could be enjoined, and we could be required to pay substantial damages. In addition, we, in connection with the development and use of our products and technologies, may be required to obtain licenses to patents or other proprietary rights of third parties, which may not be made available on terms acceptable to us. 16 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could have a negative market reaction. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to report on, and will require our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The initial deadline for us to become compliant with Section 404 was December 31, 2007. As of such date, we were compliant and have implemented an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to continue to comply with these requirements. Accordingly, we continue to incur expenses and will devote management resources to Section 404 compliance as necessary. Further, effective internal controls and procedures are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If our internal controls and procedures become ineffective, we may not be able to provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed and current and potential shareholders may not have confidence in our financial reporting. If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us or we become subject to other forms of litigation, we may incur substantial liabilities and costs and may be required to limit commercialization of our products. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products. The use of any drug candidates ultimately developed by us or our collaborators in clinical trials may expose us to product liability claims and possible adverse publicity. These risks will expand for any of our drug candidates that receive regulatory approval for commercial sale and for those products we currently market. Product liability insurance for the pharmaceutical industry is generally expensive, if available at all. We currently have product liability insurance for claims up to $10.0 million. However, if we are unable to maintain insurance coverage at acceptable costs, in a sufficient amount, or at all, or if we become subject to a product liability claim, our reputation, stock price and ability to devote the necessary resources to the commercialization of our products could be negatively impacted. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our stock price has a history of volatility, and an investment in our stock could decline in value. The price of our common stock is subject to significant volatility. Following the implementation of our new strategy and business model for Acthar, our stock price appreciated significantly. The closing price per share of our common stock ranged in value from $0.35 to $6.15 during the two year period ended December 31, 2007. Any number of events, both internal and external to us, may continue to affect our stock price. For example, our quarterly revenues or earnings or losses can fluctuate based on the buying patterns of our specialty distributor, specialty pharmacies and hospitals. In the event that patient demand for Acthar is less than our sales to our specialty distributor, excess Acthar inventories may result at our specialty distributor, specialty pharmacies and hospitals, which may impact future Acthar sales. Other potential events that could affect our stock price include, without limitation, our quarterly and yearly revenues and earnings or losses; our ability to acquire and market appropriate pharmaceuticals; announcement by us or our competitors regarding product development efforts, including the status of regulatory approval applications; the outcome of legal proceedings, including claims filed by us against third parties to enforce our patents and claims filed by third parties against us relating to patents held by the third parties; the launch of competing products; our ability to obtain product from our contract manufacturers; the resolution of (or failure to resolve) disputes with collaboration partners and corporate restructuring by us. We have significant stock option overhang which could dilute your investment. We have a substantial overhang of common stock due to a low average exercise price of employee stock options. The future exercise of employee stock options could cause substantial dilution, which may negatively affect the market price of our shares. 17 Table of Contents We may seek additional funding which would dilute your investment. We may seek to raise capital whenever conditions in the financial markets are favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for additional cash at that time. If revenues from product sales are less than we expect or if further capital resources are not available, or if such resources cannot be obtained on attractive terms to us, this may further limit our ability to fund operations. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the following: • existing product sales performance, • achieving better operating efficiencies, • maintaining customer compliance with our policies, and • obtaining product from our sole-source contract manufacturers. We may obtain additional financing through public or private debt or equity financings. However, additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Further, additional equity financings will be dilutive to our shareholders. If sufficient capital is not available, then we may be required to reduce our operations or to delay, reduce the scope of, eliminate or divest one or more of our products or development programs. If our officers, directors and largest shareholders choose to act together, they could exert significant influence over the outcome of a shareholder vote. Our officers, directors and holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock may be deemed to beneficially own approximately 49% of the voting power of our outstanding voting capital stock as of December 31, 2007. As a result, these shareholders, acting together, would be able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. The interests of these shareholders may not always coincide with the interests of other shareholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other shareholders. The 49% voting power of these shareholders includes the shares held by our five largest shareholders, Paolo Cavazza and his affiliates, Tang Capital Partners and its affiliates, Claudio Cavazza and his affiliates, Black Horse Capital and its affiliates, Visium Asset Management and its affiliates, and Broadwood Partners, L.P. and its affiliates, which beneficially own approximately 45% of the voting power of our outstanding voting capital stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 