Item 1A. Risk FactorsInvestment in our stock involves a high degree of risk. Our business, operating results, growth prospects and financial condition are subject to various risks, many of which are not exclusively within our control, that may cause actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance. We urge you to consider carefully the risks described below, together with the other information in this report and our other public filings, before making investment decisions regarding our stock. Each of these risk factors, as well as additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, could adversely affect our business, operating results, growth prospects or financial condition, as well as the trading price of our common stock, in which case you may lose all or part of your investment.Risks Associated with our BusinessSubstantially all of our net sales and profits are derived from Acthar.9Table of ContentsFor the year ended December 31, 2013, sales of Acthar for the following on-label indications: (i) the treatment of proteinuria in the nephrotic syndrome of the idiopathic type, or NS, (ii) the treatment of certain rheumatology related conditions, (iii) the treatment of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis, or MS, in adults, and (iv) the treatment of infantile spasms, or IS, in infants and children under two years of age, represented approximately 95% of our total net sales. We expect to continue to rely on sales of Acthar for these indications for a significant percentage of our net sales and profits for the foreseeable future. Relative to other more recently approved pharmaceutical products, there is limited clinical evidence on the efficacy of Acthar for its on-label indications which could impact the sales of Acthar. The completion of ongoing or future clinical trials to provide further evidence on the efficacy of Acthar in the treatment of its approved indications could take several years to complete and will require the expenditure of significant time, financial and management resources and a clinical trial may not result in data that supports the use of Acthar to treat any of its approved indications. In addition, a clinical trial to evaluate the use of Acthar to treat indications not on the current Acthar label may not provide a basis to pursue adding such indications to the current Acthar label. Our efforts to receive approval for new indications to add to the current Acthar label would require one or more additional clinical studies and the preparation and submission of a sNDA with the FDA, and any submission may not ultimately be approved by the FDA.The demand for Acthar to treat NS, rheumatology related conditions, MS exacerbations, IS, and respiratory manifestations of symptomatic sarcoidosis is highly variable, and we cannot predict whether we will continue to generate significant net sales from sales of Acthar. Recommended treatment regimens among physicians prescribing Acthar for use in treating NS, rheumatology related conditions, MS exacerbations, IS and respiratory manifestations of symptomatic sarcoidosis vary within each therapeutic area. If physicians prescribe a lower number of vials for the treatment of any of these indications, our net sales of Acthar would decline. Additionally, we are aware that some prescriptions are initially for a lower number of vials than is necessary to complete the physician's recommended treatment regimen, and allow for one or more prescription refills. If patients do not obtain their refill prescriptions in order to complete their recommended treatment regimens, our net sales from the sale of Acthar would be negatively impacted. We may not be able to increase prescription levels by enough to offset any decline in vials per prescription. If the sales of or demand for Acthar declines, if third-party payers refuse to provide, or make it substantially more difficult to obtain, reimbursement for purchases of Acthar, if a greater proportion of our Acthar unit sales is comprised of product dispensed to Medicaid eligible patients or if vials sourced through various patient assistance programs increases as a percent of total shipments, our net sales of Acthar would be negatively impacted. If the cost to produce Acthar increases, our gross margins on the sale of Acthar would decline. If our net sales or gross margins from the sale of Acthar decline, our ability to generate profits would be harmed.We may be negatively affected by lower reimbursement levels. Our ability to generate pharmaceutical net sales is affected by the availability of third-party reimbursement for Acthar, and our ability to generate net sales will be diminished if we fail to maintain an adequate level of reimbursement for Acthar from such third-party payers.Acthar is a low-volume specialty pharmaceutical product and the sale of Acthar depends in part on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payers, including state and federal government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, as well as managed care providers and private insurance plans. In the United States, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of state and federal proposals that limit the amount that third party payers may pay to reimburse the cost of drugs, including Acthar. We believe the increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has and will continue to put pressure on the price and usage of Acthar. In addition, current third-party reimbursement policies for Acthar may change at any time and such changes could include, among other things, required pre-authorizations, lower reimbursement or the loss of insurance coverage. These changes or other changes in the future may affect the reimbursement for Acthar. Negative changes in reimbursement turnaround times or third party payers' refusal to reimburse for Acthar may reduce the demand for, or the price of, Acthar, which could result in lower Acthar net sales, thereby weakening our competitive position and negatively impacting our results of operations.Beginning April 1, 2013, Medicare payments for all items and services, including drugs and biologicals, have been reduced by 2% under sequestration (i.e., automatic spending reductions) required by the Budget Control Act of 2011, Pub. L. No. 112-25, as amended by the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, Pub. L. 112-240. The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013, Pub. L. No. 113-67, extended the 2% reduction to 2023. Medicare Part D plans may seek to increase discounts from us if Congress does not modify these sequestrations in the future. Other legislative or regulatory cost containment provisions, as described below, could have a similar effect. This may negatively impact our net sales.10Table of ContentsWe are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business.The manufacture of Acthar is a highly exacting and complex process and, if our internal manufacturing operations or any of our suppliers encounter problems manufacturing products, our business could suffer.Acthar is derived from the extraction and purification of porcine pituitary glands through complicated processes and, as a result, Acthar is difficult to manufacture. Biological products such as Acthar require production processes that are significantly more complicated than those required for chemical pharmaceuticals, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. Problems may arise during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials, natural disasters, and environmental factors. In addition, we currently use single source and sole source suppliers for certain aspects of the manufacturing process of Acthar. For example, we currently obtain our finished Acthar product from a sole source supplier, Cangene. Reliance on those third party suppliers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we conducted those aspects of manufacturing ourselves, including reliance on those third parties for regulatory compliance and quality assurance.If problems arise during the production of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded. Among other impacts to our business, lost batches could lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to our reputation, changes in physician practices with respect to the use of Acthar, time and expense spent investigating the cause of such problems and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches of Acthar. If we do not discover problems before Acthar is released to the market, we also may incur recall and product liability costs. To the extent that our internal manufacturing facilities or one of our suppliers experiences significant manufacturing problems, these could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability.On January 18, 2013, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of BioVectra which, among other things, produces the API for Acthar. As a result of the acquisition of BioVectra, we currently use our own internal facilities to manufacture the API for Acthar. Our ability to adequately and timely manufacture and supply Acthar is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our facilities, which may be impacted by many events. Furthermore, our ability to retain key BioVectra management and successfully integrate BioVectra could impact our ability to manufacture or sell Acthar. In the event of a material disruption in the manufacturing capability of BioVectra for any reason, if we were unable to enter into a supply agreement with a third party manufacturer, or are unable to obtain FDA approval for a third party manufacturer, we may not be able to manufacture or sell Acthar, which would result in a loss of almost all of our revenues and damage to our business.We have a supply agreement with Cangene to produce our finished vials of Acthar. Our supply agreement with this vendor is in effect until terminated by either party upon 12 months' notice. If the vendor terminates the agreement, it is obligated under the agreement to continue to provide manufacturing services for up to three years after the termination. If either party cancels the supply agreement, and we are unable to enter into a new supply agreement on substantially similar terms with a new manufacturer, or are unable to obtain FDA approval for a new manufacturer, we may not be able to manufacture or sell Acthar, which would result in a loss of almost all of our revenues and damage to our business.Failure by our internal manufacturing facilities or our third-party suppliers or manufacturers to comply with regulatory requirements could adversely affect our ability to manufacture API in Acthar or our third-party suppliers' ability to supply finished vials of Acthar. All facilities and manufacturing techniques used for the manufacture of pharmaceutical products must be operated in conformity with the FDA's cGMP requirements. In complying with cGMP requirements, we, and our suppliers, must continually expend time, money and effort in production, record-keeping and quality assurance and control to ensure that our products and product candidates meet applicable specifications and other requirements for product safety, efficacy and quality. Manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and other regulatory authorities, including state authorities. The failure of our internal manufacturing facilities or our third-party suppliers to comply with applicable legal requirements could be the basis for the FDA to issue a warning or untitled letter, withdraw approvals for product candidates previously granted to us, or to take other legal or regulatory action, including recall or seizure, total or partial suspension of production, suspension of ongoing clinical trials, refusal to approve pending applications or supplemental applications, detention of product, refusal to permit the import or export of products, injunction, or imposing civil and criminal penalties.Any delay in supplying, or failure to supply, Acthar by our manufacturing facilities or any of our suppliers could result in our inability to meet the commercial demand for Acthar or our needs for use in clinical trials, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.We have no patent protection for Acthar, and existing and potentially competitive products to Acthar may reduce or eliminate our commercial opportunity.11Table of ContentsThe composition patent for Acthar has expired and we may have no patent-based market exclusivity with respect to any indication or condition we might target. There are products and treatments currently on the market that compete with Acthar. In addition, the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change, and a number of companies are pursuing the development of products that target the same diseases and conditions that we target. Some of the companies developing products have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in development, manufacturing, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing than we do. Other smaller companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. In the event we are successful in further developing markets for Acthar, our increasing the overall sales volume of Acthar may lead other companies to dedicate greater resources to attempt to develop and introduce generic or biosimilar versions of Acthar and other competitive therapies for the same diseases and conditions that we target. We cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of additional competitive products or their possible effect on our net sales. If a competitor did apply to the FDA for a generic or biosimilar version of Acthar or any competitive product not based on ACTH (adrenocorticotropic hormone), we would not receive any notice from the FDA about the existence of the application. Further, the announcement of a filing with the FDA relating to a potentially competitive product could have an adverse effect on our business and share price, regardless of the ultimate outcome of such filing.We rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how for Acthar. We currently seek protection, in part, through confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for proprietary technology in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential and proprietary information. The parties may not comply with or may breach these agreements. Furthermore, our trade secrets may otherwise become known to, or be independently developed by, competitors.Our success will further depend, in part, on our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. If our activities infringe on patents owned by others, we could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves in suits brought against a licensor or us. In addition, such litigation or the threat of litigation could create substantial distractions for our management, which would decrease our ability to focus on increasing sales of Acthar. Should Acthar or its associated technologies be found to infringe on patents issued to third parties, the manufacture, use and sale of Acthar could be enjoined, and we could be required to pay substantial damages. In addition, we, in connection with the development and use of Acthar and its associated technologies, may be required to obtain licenses to patents or other proprietary rights of third parties, which may not be made available on terms acceptable to us or at all.Our attempts to further develop other on-label therapeutic uses for our pharmaceutical products may be unsuccessful.In connection with the FDA's October 2010 approval of our sNDA to add the treatment of IS to the label of approved indications for Acthar, the overall label for Acthar was modernized and there are now 19 approved indications, including the treatment of IS, the treatment of acute exacerbations of MS in adults, the use of Acthar to induce a diuresis or a remission of proteinuria in the nephrotic syndrome without uremia of the idiopathic type or that due to lupus erythematosus, and the treatment of certain rheumatology related conditions including the rare and closely related neuromuscular disorders DM/PM. Commercializing Acthar to treat other on-label indications, such as for the treatment of respiratory manifestations of symptomatic sarcoidosis, will be time consuming, expensive and unpredictable. We may not be able to, either by ourselves or in collaboration with others, successfully commercialize Acthar for the treatment of new, on-label therapeutic uses.Once developed, a number of factors may negatively affect the market acceptance of additional therapeutic uses for our pharmaceutical products, including, among others:•the price of our products relative to other therapies for the same or similar treatments;•limited published data of the efficacy of our products for such additional therapeutic uses;•the perception by patients, physicians and other members of the health care community of the safety and efficacy of our products for their prescribed treatments;•the availability of third-party reimbursement for our products; and•the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts.If the additional therapeutic uses for our products are not accepted by the market, our ability to grow our business will be affected.12Table of ContentsIf our business partners do not fulfill their obligations with respect to any future collaboration agreements our revenues and our business will suffer.We may decide to collaborate with third parties in the commercialization of new products or new on-label therapeutic uses for Acthar or our products, such collaboration may require us to commit substantial effort and expense in seeking out, evaluating and negotiating collaboration agreements, which expense may be incurred without achieving our desired results and which effort involves inherent risks, including uncertainties due to matters that may affect the successful commercialization of such uses, as well as the possibility of contractual disagreements with regard to terms such as proprietary rights, license scope, net income and royalty calculation or termination rights. It may be necessary for us to enter into arrangements with other pharmaceutical companies in order to effectively market any new, on-label therapeutic uses for Acthar. We may not be successful in entering into such arrangements on terms favorable to us or at all.The amount and timing of resources dedicated by our collaborators to their collaborations with us are not within our control. If any collaborator breaches or terminates its agreements with us or fails to conduct its collaborative activities in a timely manner, the commercialization of our product candidates could be slowed or blocked completely. In addition, our collaborative partners may change their strategic focus, pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products as a means for developing treatments for the diseases targeted by these collaborative programs and these could compete with products we are developing.Further, our collaborations may not be successful. Disputes may arise between us and our collaborators as to a variety of matters, including financing obligations under our agreements and ownership of intellectual property rights. These disputes may be both expensive and time-consuming and may result in delays in the development and commercialization of products. If any of the product candidates that we are commercializing with collaborators are delayed or blocked from entering the market or we experience increased costs as a result of our relationship with our collaborators, our financial performance could be adversely affected.We depend substantially on third parties to assist us in our research and development; our efforts to increase our in-house capabilities to conduct research and development projects may be unsuccessful.We heavily rely upon third-party vendors to plan, conduct and report on clinical trials for uses of Acthar and other products. Managing these third-party contract research organizations, or CROs, requires significant time and resources. In the event that any of our CROs has unforeseen compliance, quality assurance, or operational difficulties that negatively impact the quality of its work, our ability to evaluate and rely upon clinical results may also be negatively impacted. A CRO's failure to appropriately conduct a clinical study could also result in FDA rejecting the data from that study. In addition, any one of these vendors could determine that its own research and development requirements or those of other parties take precedence over the research and development they provide to us. We could experience a development gap if one or more of our clinical trial vendors does not properly execute a clinical trial or chose to prioritize other projects over our development projects. This prioritization could cause a gap in our research and development timelines until we achieve further advancement of our own capabilities. Any gap could impact our ability to develop and commercialize other therapeutic uses for Acthar or our other products. Switching or adding new CROs involves additional cost and requires management time and focus. If any of our relationships with our third-party CROs terminate, we may not be able to enter into arrangements with alternative CROs or to do so on commercially reasonable terms. We are actively growing our ability to conduct our own clinical trial research and development projects. In the event that we fail to manage these in-house capabilities, we may negatively impact our ability to successfully conduct clinical trials for uses of Acthar and other products.A clinical trial failure could adversely affect our ability to develop data to support the use of Acthar in the treatment of on-label indications or file for or gain regulatory approvals for new indications for Acthar or other products on a timely basis.If pre-clinical trials do not produce successful results or if clinical trials do not demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans, we will not be able to obtain approval for new products or to add to the label of approved indications for Acthar or our other products.The regulatory process, which may include extensive pre-clinical trials and clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of a new product or the expansion of a label for an existing product in a new therapeutic area, can lead to uncertain outcomes, can span many years, and requires the expenditure of substantial time and resources to conduct and to ensure compliance with complex regulations. Should we fail to comply with applicable regulations, possible regulatory actions could include warning letters, fines, damages, injunctions, civil penalties, recalls, seizures of our products and criminal prosecution. These actions could result in, among other things, substantial modifications to our business practices and operations; refunds, recalls or a total or partial shutdown of production in one or more of our suppliers' facilities while our suppliers remedy the 13Table of Contentsalleged violation; the inability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals; restrictions on the labeling, promotion and use of Acthar; and withdrawals or suspensions of our products from the market. Any of these events could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition.In addition, data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval or clearance. Also, we may encounter delays or rejections based upon changes in regulatory policy during the development period and the period of review of any application for regulatory approval or clearance for Acthar or our other products.Our success in obtaining approval for new products and in adding to the label for approved indications for Acthar or our other products will depend on the success of the pre-clinical and clinical trials conducted by us and our clinical trial vendors. It can take several years to complete the pre-clinical and clinical trials of a new therapeutic use, and a failure of one or more of these pre-clinical or clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. We believe that the development of new therapeutic uses for our products involves significant risks at each stage of testing. If pre-clinical or clinical trial difficulties and failures arise, new therapeutic uses for our products may never be approved for sale or become commercially viable. In addition, the possibility exists that: •the results from early pre-clinical or clinical trials may not be statistically significant or predictive of results that will be obtained from expanded, advanced clinical trials; •there may be delay or failure in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations, or CROs, and clinical trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites;•we may experience delay or failure in recruiting and enrolling suitable patients to participate in a trial;•clinical sites and investigators may deviate from trial protocol or fail to conduct the trial in accordance with regulatory requirements, or drop out of a trial;•feedback from FDA, the institutional review board, or data safety monitoring boards, or results from earlier stage or concurrent pre-clinical and clinical studies, may require modification to the study protocol;•a proposed new use for Acthar may not exhibit the expected therapeutic results in humans, may cause harmful side effects or have other unexpected characteristics that may delay or preclude regulatory approval or limit commercial use, even if approved; •we, institutional review boards, or regulators, including the FDA, may hold, suspend or terminate our pre-clinical or clinical research or the pre-clinical or clinical trials of Acthar for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or if, in our or their opinion, the participating subjects are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; •the cost of our pre-clinical or clinical trials may be greater than we currently anticipate; and •the difficulties and risks associated with pre-clinical and clinical trials may result in the failure to receive regulatory approval, and could impact our ability to continue to test or to sell our products in new or existing therapeutic uses or the inability to commercialize our products for any of these therapeutic uses. The time required to obtain approval by the FDA is unpredictable but typically takes many years following the commencement of preclinical studies and clinical trials and depends upon numerous factors, including the substantial discretion of the regulatory authorities. In addition, approval policies, regulations, or the type and amount of clinical data necessary to gain approval may change during the course of a product's clinical development and may vary among jurisdictions. It is possible that Acthar or our other products will never obtain regulatory approval for new therapeutic uses.There are many reasons why we may fail to receive a regulatory approval from the FDA, including:•failure to demonstrate to FDA's satisfaction that our products are safe and effective for their proposed indications;•failure of clinical trials to meet the level of statistical significance required for approval;•failure to demonstrate that clinical and other benefits outweigh its safety risks;14Table of Contents•disagreement with our interpretation of data from preclinical studies or clinical trials;•the data collected from clinical trials may be insufficient to support the submission and filing of an NDA or supplement or to obtain regulatory approval; and•changes in the approval policies or regulations that render our preclinical and clinical data insufficient for approval.The FDA may require more information, including additional preclinical or clinical data to support approval of our products for new therapeutic uses, which may delay or prevent approval and our commercialization plans, or we may decide to abandon the development program. If we were to obtain approval, regulatory authorities may approve our products for fewer or more limited indications than we request, may grant approval contingent on the performance of costly post-marketing clinical trials, or may approve a product candidate with a label that does not include the labeling claims necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of that product candidate. In addition, if the FDA determines that there are undesirable side effects or safety issues, the FDA may require the establishment of Risk Evaluation Mitigation Strategies that may, for instance, restrict distribution and impose burdensome implementation requirements on us. Any of the foregoing scenarios could materially harm the commercial prospects for our products in new therapeutic areas.In addition to regulations in the U.S., if we expand our operations to the European Union, or EU, we may be subject to a variety of EU, EU Member States, and other foreign regulations governing clinical trials. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we must obtain approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country, and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country.If we are unable to obtain approval to add new indications for our products, or if we are unable to support the commercialization of other currently labeled indications with additional data, our sales and marketing efforts and market acceptance and the commercial potential of Acthar and our other products may be negatively affected.We are dependent on third parties to distribute our pharmaceutical products who may not fulfill their obligations.We currently have no in-house distribution channels for Acthar and we are dependent on a third-party specialty distributor, CuraScript Specialty Distributor, to distribute Acthar. We rely on this distributor for all of our proceeds from sales of Acthar in the United States. The outsourcing of our distribution function is complex, and we may experience difficulties that could reduce, delay or stop shipments of Acthar. If we encounter such distribution problems, and we are unable to quickly enter into a similar agreement with another specialty distributor on substantially similar terms, Acthar distribution could become disrupted, resulting in lost revenues, provider dissatisfaction, and/or patient dissatisfaction.We may be unable to identify, acquire, close or integrate acquisition targets successfully.Part of our business strategy includes evaluating potential acquisitions and other business combinations to help create shareholder value. Acquisitions or similar arrangements may be complex, time consuming and expensive. We may not consummate some negotiations for acquisitions or other arrangements, which could result in significant diversion of management and other employee time, as well as substantial out-of-pocket costs. In addition, there are a number of risks and uncertainties relating to our closing of transactions. If an acquisition or other potential business combination is consummated, the integration of the acquired business, product or other assets into our company may be complex and time-consuming and, if such businesses, products or assets are not successfully integrated, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits. Furthermore, these acquisitions and other arrangements, even if successfully integrated, may fail to further our business strategy as anticipated or expose us to additional liabilities associated with an acquired business, product, technology or other asset or arrangement. Any one of these challenges or risks could impair our ability to realize any benefit from our acquisition or arrangement after we have expended resources on them.If we fail to realize the anticipated benefits from our acquisition of BioVectra our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits from our acquisition of BioVectra for a variety of reasons, including the following:•the difficulties of overseeing manufacturing operations in a foreign country where we have no or limited direct prior experience;15Table of Contents•failure to successfully manage relationships with suppliers and customers; •difficulties in integrating and harmonizing business systems; •the loss of key employees; and•failure to properly protect against foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. If we are not able to successfully manage these issues, the anticipated benefits and efficiencies of the BioVectra acquisition may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, and our revenue and gross margins and our results of operations may be adversely affected.The acquisition of Synacthen and Synacthen Depot could have an adverse impact on future operations if we are unable to successfully develop the product for commercial sale in the US and/or are unable to successfully transition or grow the international business.On June 11, 2013 we acquired from Novartis certain rights to Synacthen and Synacthen Depot. The License Agreement we entered into with Novartis provides for an exclusive, perpetual and irrevocable license to develop, market, manufacture, distribute, sell and commercialize Synacthen and Synacthen depot. Novartis has the right to terminate the license under certain circumstances, including if Questcor fails within time periods set forth in the License Agreement to achieve certain development milestones related to (i) conducting a pre-IND meeting with the FDA with respect to Synacthen, (ii) commencing a clinical trial with respect to Synacthen and Synacthen Depot and (iii) submitting an NDA for Synacthen and Synacthen Depot for filing with the FDA. The timing and process for completing these regulatory milestones is difficult to predict and we may not be able to achieve any or all of these milestones on a timely basis. We plan to rely on third-parties to conduct research and clinical trials necessary to meet each of the milestones. Our ability to meet these milestones will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to oversee third-party research and clinical trials and our ability to successfully show the safety and efficacy of Synacthen and Synacthen Depot. If Novartis terminates the license as a result of our failure to meet these milestones, we will not be able to realize the gains in revenues and gross margins and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Under an asset purchase agreement with Novartis, Novartis has the right to terminate the right to purchase assets and intellectual property related to Synacthen on a country by country basis if we are unable to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for such country or if we fail to make Synacthen in such country for a period of time following the transfer of the applicable marketing authorization. If our right to sell Synacthen in any or all of the countries we have contracted for are terminated, we will not be able to realize revenue in those countries, which may adversely affect our results of operations.Our business and operations have experienced rapid growth. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business and operating results could be harmed.We have experienced rapid growth, both from organic growth and our recent acquisition of BioVectra and certain rights to Synacthen and Synacthen Depot, in our headcount and operations that has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management and operational and financial infrastructure. To effectively manage this growth, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. These systems enhancements and improvements will require significant capital expenditures and management resources. Failure to implement these improvements could hurt our ability to manage our growth and our financial position. We have begun to establish our international footprint and operations, and we may expand further in the future, which subjects us to additional business risks. We may not achieve the results that we or our shareholders expect.As a result of the BioVectra and Synacthen transactions, we expect to be conducting a portion of our business outside of the United States. Accordingly, we are now subject to risks and complexities that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including, among other things:•The increased complexity and costs inherent in managing international operations; •The ability of our international subsidiaries to successfully implement their commercial objectives;•Diverse regulatory, financial and legal requirements, and any changes to such requirements in one or more countries where we are located or do business; •Country-specific tax laws and regulations; •Financial risks such as longer sales and payment cycles and difficulty collecting accounts receivables;16Table of Contents•Political and economic instability;•Complying with applicable international trade laws, including but not limited to U.S. and EU sanctions laws and regulations, U.S. anti-boycott laws and regulations, U.S. and EU export control laws and regulations; tariffs, export quotas, custom duties and other requirements; or other trade restrictions and any changes to them;•Complying with applicable anti-corruption laws, including but not limited to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which generally prohibit directly or indirectly giving, offering, or promising inducements to public officials to elicit an improper commercial advantage. Under the FCPA, this prohibition has been interpreted to apply to doctors and other medical professionals who work in state-run hospitals and state-run healthcare systems outside the U.S. Some of these laws also prohibit directly or indirectly giving, offering, or promising (and, in some cases, accepting or soliciting) inducements to (or from) private parties to elicit (or grant) an improper commercial advantage;•Challenges inherent in efficiently managing employees in diverse geographies, including the need to adapt systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs to differing labor and other regulations; •Changes in currency rates; and •Regulations relating to data security and the unauthorized use of, or access to, commercial and personal information. Failure to effectively manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business.The loss of our key management personnel or failure to integrate new management personnel could have an adverse impact on future operations.We are highly dependent on the services of the principal members of our senior management team, and the loss of one or more members of senior management could create significant disruption in our ability to operate our business. We do not carry key person life insurance for our senior management or other personnel. Additionally, the future potential growth and expansion of our business is placing increased demands on our management skills and resources. Recruiting and retaining management and operational personnel to perform sales and marketing, financial operations, clinical development, regulatory affairs, compliance, quality assurance, medical affairs and contract manufacturing in the future will also be critical to our success. We do not know if we will be able to attract and retain skilled and experienced management and operational personnel in the future on acceptable terms given the intense competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for such personnel. If we are unable to hire necessary skilled personnel in the future, or we are unable to successfully integrate new management personnel into their roles, our business could be harmed. Our financial results can be negatively impacted by economic downturns.Downturns in the general economic environment present us with several potential challenges. In challenging economies and periods of increased unemployment, a greater percentage of our unit volume may be subject to reimbursement under Medicaid and other government programs. This shift in payer mix can negatively impact our financial results because of the resulting decrease in our net sales. In addition, third-party payers such as private insurance companies may be less willing to satisfy their reimbursement obligations in a timely manner, or at all.As a result of downturns in the economy, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance of our third-party contractors, suppliers or collaborators. If a significant third-party contractor, supplier or collaborator is unable to satisfy its commitments to us, our business could be adversely affected.Downturns in the capital markets may have a negative impact on the market values of the investments in our investment portfolio. We cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and the markets for these securities may deteriorate or the institutions that hold these investments may not be able to meet their debt obligations at the time we may need to liquidate such investments or until such time as the investments mature.If product liability or other lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and costs and may be required to limit commercialization of Acthar.The development, manufacture, testing, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products entail significant risk of product liability claims or recalls. Side effects of, or manufacturing defects in, the products sold by us could result in exacerbation of a patient's condition, serious injury or impairments or even death. This could result in product liability claims and/or recalls of one or more of our products. Acthar has boxed warnings in its label. 17Table of ContentsProduct recalls may be issued at our discretion or at the discretion of our suppliers, government agencies and other entities that have regulatory authority for pharmaceutical sales. Any recall of Acthar could materially adversely affect our business by rendering us unable to sell Acthar for some time, causing us to incur significant recall costs and by adversely affecting our reputation. A recall could also result in product liability claims.Product liability claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief for themselves, or by groups seeking to represent a class. While we have not had to defend against any product liability claims to date, as sales of our products increase, we believe it is likely product liability claims will be made against us. We cannot predict the frequency, outcome or cost to defend any such claims. Under a 2009 United States Supreme Court ruling, FDA approval of a drug does not prevent the filing of product liability claims in state courts, potentially making it more costly and time consuming to defend against such claims.Product liability insurance coverage is expensive, can be difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. We currently have product liability insurance for claims up to $10 million. Partly as a result of product liability lawsuits related to pharmaceutical products, product liability and other types of insurance have become more difficult and costly for pharmaceutical companies to obtain. Our product liability insurance may not cover all of the future liabilities we might incur in connection with the development, manufacture or sale of our products or, in the case of BioVectra, the liabilities we might incur in connection with their manufacture of product for other companies. In addition, we may not continue to be able to obtain insurance on satisfactory terms or in adequate amounts.In addition to product liability insurance coverage, we have other insurance coverage, including but not limited to directors' and officers' liability insurance. Directors' and officers' liability insurance is also expensive, can be difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. We currently have directors' and officers' liability insurance for claims up to $45 million. This insurance may not cover all the future liabilities we may incur in connection with lawsuits related to the Company or our directors and officers.A successful claim or claims brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage could subject us to significant liabilities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Such claims could also harm our reputation and the reputation of our products, adversely affecting our ability to market our products successfully. In addition, defending a lawsuit can be expensive and can divert the attention of key employees from operating our business.Business interruptions could limit our ability to operate our business.Our operations, including those of our suppliers, are vulnerable to damage or interruption from computer viruses, human error, natural disasters, telecommunications failures, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. We have not established a formal disaster recovery plan, and our back-up operations and our business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for losses that occur. A significant business interruption could result in losses or damages incurred by us and require us to cease or curtail our operations.Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.In the ordinary course of our business, we or our distribution partners and clinical trial partners may collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our outside data centers and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, destroyed or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, including state laws and rules and regulations promulgated under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations, and damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, which could adversely affect our business.In addition to regulations in the U.S., if we expand our operations to the European Union, or EU, we may be subject to a variety of EU, EU Member States, and other foreign regulations. The collection and use of personal health data in the EU is governed by the provisions of the Data Protection Directive. This Directive imposes a number of requirements relating to the consent of the individuals to whom the personal data relates, the information provided to the individuals, notification of data processing obligations to the competent national data protection authorities and the security and confidentiality of the personal data. The Data Protection Directive also imposes strict rules on the transfer of personal data out of the EU to the United States. Failure to comply with the requirements of the Data Protection Directive and the related national data protection laws of the EU 18Table of ContentsMember States may result in fines and other administrative penalties. The draft EU Data Protection Regulation currently going through the adoption process is expected to introduce new data protection requirements in the EU and substantial fines for breaches of the data protection rules. If the draft Data Protection Regulation is adopted in its current form, to the extent we expand our operations to the EU, it may increase our responsibility and liability in relation to personal data that we process and we may be required to put in place additional mechanisms ensuring compliance with the new EU data protection rules. This may be onerous and increase our cost of doing business if we expand our operations to the EU.Risks Associated with Government Regulation and Health Care ReformWe are involved in an ongoing government investigation by the United States Department of Justice involving our promotional practices and related matters, the results of which may have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition and results of operations.In September 2012, we received a subpoena from the United States Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania (or USAO), requesting documents pertaining to an investigation of our promotional practices. We have been informed by the USAO for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania that the USAO for the Southern District of New York and the SEC are also participating in the investigation to review our promotional practices and related matters. We are cooperating with the USAO and the SEC with regard to this investigation. Responding to this investigation has been and is expected to continue to be expensive and time-consuming. If some of our existing business practices are challenged as unlawful, we may have to change those practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If, as a result of this investigation, we are found to have violated one or more applicable laws, we could be subject to a variety of fines, penalties, and related administrative sanctions, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight, which may result in significant additional expense and limit our ability to commercialize our products. We are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations, such as safety reporting requirements and additional post-marketing obligations, including regulatory oversight of the promotion and marketing of our products. In addition, the manufacture, quality control, labeling, packaging, safety surveillance, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for our products are subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. If we become aware of previously unknown problems or potential safety risks associated with any of our products, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on our products, our contract manufacturers or on us. If we, our products and product candidates, or the manufacturing facilities for our products and product candidates fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency, including the FDA, may send enforcement letters, mandate labeling changes, suspend or withdraw regulatory approval, suspend any ongoing clinical trials, require new clinical trials, impose a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, refuse to approve pending applications or supplements filed by us, suspend or impose restrictions on manufacturing operations, request a recall of, seize or detain a product, seek criminal prosecution or an injunction, or impose civil or criminal penalties or monetary fines. In such instances, we could experience a significant drop in the sales of the affected products, our product revenues and reputation in the marketplace may suffer, and we could become the target of lawsuits. The FDA and other governmental authorities also actively enforce regulations prohibiting off-label promotion, and the government has levied large civil and criminal fines against companies for alleged improper promotion. The government has also required companies to enter into complex corporate integrity agreements and/or non-prosecution or deferred prosecution agreements that impose significant reporting and other burdens on the affected companies. We are also subject to regulation by regional, national, state and local agencies, including but not limited to the FDA, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Department of Justice, the Federal Trade Commission, the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and other regulatory bodies. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, Social Security Act, Public Health Service Act and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern to varying degrees the research, development, manufacturing and commercial activities relating to prescription pharmaceutical products, including preclinical testing, clinical research, approval, production, labeling, sale, distribution, post-market surveillance, advertising, dissemination of information, promotion, marketing, and pricing to government purchasers and government health care programs. Our manufacturing partners are subject to many of the same requirements. The federal health care program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward the purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for or recommending the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, by federal healthcare programs such as Medicare, Medicaid or other federally 19Table of Contentsfinanced healthcare programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements that pharmaceutical companies have with prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers. Further, the Healthcare Reform Act, among other things, clarified that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of the anti-kickback statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, the Healthcare Reform Act as amended the Social Security Act to provide that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors under the federal anti-kickback statute protecting certain common manufacturer business arrangements and activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly and an arrangement must meet all of the conditions specified in order to be fully protected from scrutiny under the federal anti-kickback statute. We seek to comply with the exemptions and safe harbors whenever possible, but our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability and may be subject to scrutiny. Violations of the federal anti-kickback statute can result in civil and criminal fines and penalties and related administrative sanctions, including exclusion from federal health care programs.The Federal False Claims Act prohibits any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment of government funds, or knowingly making, using or causing to be made or used, a false record or statement to get a false claim paid. Many pharmaceutical and other health care companies have been investigated and have reached substantial financial settlements with the federal government under the Federal False Claims Act for a variety of alleged marketing activities, including providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; providing consulting fees, grants, free travel, and other benefits to physicians to induce them to prescribe the company's products; and inflating prices reported to private price publication services, which may be used by states to set drug payment rates under government health care programs. Companies have been prosecuted for causing false claims to be submitted because of the marketing of their products for unapproved uses. Pharmaceutical and other health care companies are also subject to other federal false claim laws, including, among others, federal criminal healthcare fraud and false statement statutes that extend to non-government health benefit programs. Many states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, which apply regardless of the payer. Several states now require pharmaceutical companies to report their expenses relating to the marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products in those states and to report gifts and payments to certain individual health care providers in those states. Some of these states also prohibit certain marketing related activities, including the provision of gifts, meals, and other items to certain health care providers. In addition, California, Connecticut, Nevada, and Massachusetts require pharmaceutical companies to implement compliance programs or marketing codes. Compliance with various federal and state laws is difficult and time consuming, and companies that violate them may face substantial penalties. The potential sanctions include significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages and fines and exclusion from participation in federal health care programs. Because of the breadth of these laws and the lack of extensive legal guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of these laws. Such a challenge, irrespective of the underlying merits of the challenge or the ultimate outcome of the matter, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. In addition to the pending investigation by the Department of Justice, we could become subject to further government investigations and related subpoenas. Such subpoenas are often associated with previously filed qui tam actions, or lawsuits filed under seal under the Federal False Claims Act. Qui tam actions are brought by private plaintiffs suing on behalf of the federal government for alleged violations of the Federal False Claims Act. The time and expense associated with responding to such subpoenas, and any related qui tam or other actions, may be extensive, and we cannot predict the results of our review of the responsive documents and underlying facts or the results of such actions. Responding to government investigations, defending any claims raised, and any resulting fines, restitution, damages and penalties, settlement payments or administrative actions, as well as any related actions brought by shareholders or other third parties, could have a material impact on our reputation, business and financial condition and divert the attention of our management from operating our business. The number and complexity of both federal and state laws continues to increase, and additional governmental resources are being added to enforce these laws and to prosecute companies and individuals who are believed to be violating them. In particular, the Healthcare Reform Act includes a number of provisions aimed at strengthening the government's ability to pursue anti-kickback and false claims cases against pharmaceutical manufacturers and other healthcare entities, including substantially increased funding for healthcare fraud enforcement activities, enhanced investigative powers, amendments to the False Claims Act that make it easier for the government and whistleblowers to pursue cases for alleged kickback and false claim violations and, beginning in March 2014 for payments made on or after August 1, 2013, public reporting of payments by pharmaceutical manufacturers to physicians and teaching hospitals nationwide. While it is too early to predict what effect these changes will have on our business, we anticipate that government scrutiny of pharmaceutical sales and marketing practices will 20Table of Contentscontinue for the foreseeable future and subject us to the risk of further government investigations and enforcement actions. Responding to a government investigation or enforcement action would be expensive and time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. If we or any of our partners fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we or they could be subject to a range of regulatory actions that could affect our or our partners' ability to commercialize our products and could harm or prevent sales of the affected products, or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing our products. Any threatened or actual government enforcement action could also generate adverse publicity and require that we devote substantial resources that could otherwise be used in other aspects of our business.In addition to regulations in the U.S., if we expand our operations to the European Union, or EU, we may be subject to a variety of EU, EU Member States, and other foreign regulations governing clinical trials and commercial sales and distribution of our investigational medicinal products and our authorized medicinal products. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we must obtain approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country, and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country.Failure to comply with the EU Member State laws implementing the Community Code on medicinal products, and EU rules governing the promotion of medicinal products, interactions with physicians, misleading and comparative advertising and unfair commercial practices, with the EU Member State laws that apply to the promotion of medicinal products, statutory health insurance, bribery and anti-corruption or with other applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action by the EU Member State authorities, which may include any of the following: fines, imprisonment, orders forfeiting products or prohibiting or suspending their supply to the market, or requiring the manufacturer to issue public warnings, or to conduct a product recall.Changes in the health care law and regulations, including those based on recently enacted legislation, as well as changes in healthcare policy, may adversely affect our business.The number and complexity of both federal and state laws continue to increase, and additional governmental resources are being added to enforce these laws and to prosecute companies and individuals who are believed to be violating them. In particular, in March 2010, the President signed the Healthcare Reform Act. The Healthcare Reform Act includes a number of provisions aimed at strengthening the government’s ability to pursue anti-kickback and false claims cases against pharmaceutical manufacturers and other healthcare entities, including substantially increased funding for healthcare fraud enforcement activities, enhanced investigative powers, amendments to the Social Security Act that make it easier for the government and whistleblowers to pursue cases for alleged kickback and false claim violations. Additionally, Healthcare Reform Act implemented the Physician Payment Sunshine Act which requires extensive tracking of payments or transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals, maintenance of a payments database, and public reporting of the payment data. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, recently issued a final rule implementing the Physician Payment Sunshine provisions and clarified the scope of the reporting obligations. The final rule provided that manufacturers with products for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the State Children’s Health Insurance Program must begin tracking payment or transfers of value on August 1, 2013 and must report payment data to CMS by March 31, 2014 and annually thereafter. While it is too early to predict what effect these changes will have on our business, we anticipate that government scrutiny of pharmaceutical sales and marketing practices will continue for the foreseeable future and subject us to the risk of government investigations and enforcement actions. Responding to a government investigation or enforcement action would be expensive and time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. The Healthcare Reform Act substantially changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and could have a material adverse effect on our future business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. The Healthcare Reform Act contains a number of provisions that are expected to impact our business and operations, in some cases in ways we cannot currently predict. Changes that may affect our business include those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes, rules regarding prescription drug benefits under the health insurance exchanges, expansion of the 340B program, and fraud and abuse and enforcement. These changes will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs, including Medicare payment for performance initiatives and improvements to the physician quality reporting system and feedback program. The Healthcare Reform Act made significant changes to Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. Effective March 23, 2010, rebate liability expanded from fee-for-service Medicaid utilization to include the utilization of Medicaid managed care organizations as well. This expanded eligibility affected our rebate liability for that utilization. 21Table of ContentsThe Healthcare Reform Act requires pharmaceutical manufacturers of branded prescription drugs to pay a branded prescription drug fee to the federal government beginning in 2011. Each individual pharmaceutical manufacturer pays a prorated share of the branded prescription drug fee of $3.0 billion in 2014 (and set to increase in ensuing years), based on the dollar value of its branded prescription drug sales to certain programs identified in the law. Additional provisions of the Healthcare Reform Act, some of which became effective in 2011, may negatively affect our revenues in the future. For example, as part of the Healthcare Reform Act’s provisions closing a coverage gap that currently exists in the Medicare Part D prescription drug program (commonly known as the “donut hole”), we are required to provide a 50% discount on branded prescription drugs dispensed to beneficiaries within this donut hole.The Healthcare Reform Act also expanded the Public Health Service’s 340B drug pricing discount program. The 340B pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily-defined covered entities no more than the 340B “ceiling price” for the manufacturer’s covered outpatient drugs. The Healthcare Reform Act expanded the 340B program to include additional types of covered entities: certain free-standing cancer hospitals, critical access hospitals, rural referral centers and sole community hospitals, each as defined by the Healthcare Reform Act. The Healthcare Reform Act also obligates the Secretary of the HHS to create regulations and processes to improve the integrity of the 340B program and to ensure the agreement that manufacturers must sign to participate in the 340B program obligates a manufacturer to offer the 340B price to covered entities if the manufacturer makes the drug available to any other purchaser at any price and to report to the government the ceiling prices for its drugs. HRSA is expected to issue a comprehensive proposed regulation in 2014 that will address many aspects of the 340B program. When that regulation is finalized, it could affect our obligations under the 340B program in ways we cannot anticipate. In addition, legislation may be introduced that, if passed, would further expand the 340B program to additional covered entities or would require participating manufacturers to agree to provide 340B discounted pricing on drugs used in the inpatient setting.Many of the Healthcare Reform Act’s most significant reforms do not take effect until 2014. In 2012, the Centers for Medicare and Medicare Services, or CMS, the federal agency that administers the Medicare and Medicaid programs, issued proposed regulations to implement the changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate program under the Healthcare Reform Act but has not yet issued final regulations. CMS is currently expected to release the final regulations in 2014.Some states have elected not to expand their Medicaid programs by raising the income limit to 133% of the federal poverty level, as is permitted under the Healthcare Reform Act. For each state that does not choose to expand its Medicaid program, there may be fewer insured patients overall, which could impact our sales, business and financial condition. We expect any Medicaid expansion to impact the number of adults in Medicaid more than children because many states have already set their eligibility criteria for children at or above the level designated in the Healthcare Reform Act. An increase in the proportion of patients who receive Acthar and who are covered by Medicaid could adversely affect our net sales.Presently, uncertainty exists as many of the specific determinations necessary to implement the Healthcare Reform Act have yet to be decided and communicated to industry participants. Further, many of the Healthcare Reform Act' most significant reforms do not take effect until 2014 and thereafter, and the details of these reforms will be shaped significantly by regulations that have yet to be proposed. We have made several estimates with regard to important assumptions relevant to determining the financial impact of the Healthcare Reform Act on our business due to the lack of availability of both certain information and complete understanding of how the process of applying the Healthcare Reform Act will be implemented.Moreover, legislative changes to the Healthcare Reform Act remain possible, and the President may make additional refinements to the implementation of the Healthcare Reform Act that may have an additional, potential negative impact on our overall financial position, results of operations and cash flows. At this time, we cannot predict the full impact of the Healthcare Reform Act, or the timing and impact of any future rules or regulations promulgated to implement the Healthcare Reform Act.Medicaid eligible patients and government entities may account for a greater proportion of our Acthar unit sales resulting in reduced pharmaceutical net sales.Our pharmaceutical net sales may be adversely affected by laws and regulations that reduce reimbursement rates. Administrative or judicial interpretations of such laws and regulations could impact reimbursement for our products or increase the amount of rebates paid to certain government entities. The sources and amounts of our revenues are determined by a number of factors, including payer reimbursement for our products. Changes in the payer mix among private pay, Medicaid, and government programs usage may significantly affect our profitability.A portion of the estimated end-user vial demand for Acthar is for patients covered under Medicaid and other government-related programs. As required by Federal regulations, under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, we provide rebates related to Acthar dispensed to Medicaid patients. The Healthcare Reform Act made changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, 22Table of Contentsincluding increasing the minimum Medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1% of the average manufacturer price for most innovator products such as Acthar. In addition, federal law requires that any company that participates in the Medicaid rebate program also participate in the Public Health Service's 340B drug pricing discount program in order for federal funds to be available for the manufacturer's drugs under Medicaid and Medicare Part B. The 340B pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily-defined covered entities no more than the 340B “ceiling price” for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs. Under the 340B program, covered entities are permitted to purchase Acthar at the 340B ceiling price. The 340B ceiling price is calculated using a statutory formula, which is based on the average manufacturer price and rebate amount for the covered outpatient drug as calculated under the Medicaid rebate program. Changes to the definition of average manufacturer price and the Medicaid rebate amount under the Healthcare Reform Act and CMS's issuance of final regulations implementing those changes also could affect our 340B ceiling price calculations and negatively impact our results or operations. As a result of the enactment of the Healthcare Reform Act and fiscal pressures placed upon federal and state governments to reduce current budget deficits, it is possible that a greater proportion of Acthar sales could be subject to Medicaid rebates and chargebacks, reducing our net sales. Additionally, changes to Medicaid, Medicare or other regulations, or the application of such regulations to our products, resulting in higher rebates and chargebacks, could reduce our pharmaceutical net sales further.In order to be eligible to have our products paid for with federal funds under the Medicaid and Medicare Part B programs and purchased by certain federal agencies and certain federal grantees, we participate in the Department of Veterans Affairs, or VA, Federal Supply Schedule, or FSS, pricing program, established by Section 603 of the Veteran's Health Care Act of 1992. Under this program, we are obligated to make our product available for procurement on an FSS contract and charge a price to four federal agencies - VA, Department of Defense, Public Health Service, and Coast Guard - that is no higher than the statutory Federal Ceiling Price, or FCP. The FCP is based on the non-federal average manufacturer price, or Non-FAMP, which we calculate and report to the VA on a quarterly and annual basis. We also participate in the Tricare Retail Pharmacy program, established by Section 703 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 and related regulations, under which we pay quarterly rebates on utilization of innovator products that are dispensed through the Tricare Retail Pharmacy network to Tricare beneficiaries. The rebates are calculated as the difference between Annual Non-FAMP and FCP.Significant judgment is inherent in the selection of assumptions and the interpretation of historical experience as well as the identification of external and internal factors affecting the determination of our reserves for Medicaid rebates and other government program rebates and chargebacks. We believe that the assumptions used to determine these sales reserves are reasonable considering known facts and circumstances. However, our Medicaid rebates and other government program rebates and chargebacks could materially differ from our reserve amounts because of unanticipated changes in prescription trends or patterns in the states' submissions of Medicaid claims, adjustments to the amount of product in the distribution channel, or if our estimates of the number of Medicaid patients with IS, MS, NS and rheumatology related conditions are incorrect. We have greater visibility on the future submission of Medicaid claims and the amount of product in the distribution channel for Acthar distributed to a specialty pharmacy owned by our specialty distributor than we have with respect to Acthar distributed through other specialty pharmacies. If actual Medicaid rebates, or other government program rebates and discounts are materially different from our estimates, we would account for such differences as a change in estimate in the period in which they become known. If actual future payments for such reserves exceed the estimates we made at the time of sale, our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively impacted.If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid Drug Rebate program or other governmental pricing programs, we could be subject to additional reimbursement requirements, penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. We have certain price reporting obligations due to our participation in the Medicaid Drug Rebate program, under several state Medicaid supplemental rebate programs, related to other governmental pricing programs, and we report average sales price for the Medicare program. Under the Medicaid Drug Rebate program, we are required to pay a rebate to each state Medicaid program for our covered outpatient drugs that are dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries and paid for by a state Medicaid program. Those rebates are based on pricing data (including Average Manufacturer Price and Best Price data) reported by us on a monthly and quarterly basis to CMS.. Federal law requires that a company that participates in the Medicaid Drug Rebate program report average sales price, or ASP, information to CMS for certain categories of drugs that are paid under Part B of the Medicare program. Manufacturers calculate ASP based on a statutorily defined formula as well as regulations and interpretations of the statute by CMS as to what should or should not be considered in computing ASP. CMS uses these submissions to determine payment rates for drugs under Medicare Part B. 23Table of ContentsPricing and rebate calculations vary among products and programs. The calculations are complex and are often subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. CMS or another government agency could disagree with our interpretation of applicable law and regulation and could challenge our rebate calculations. If we become aware that our reporting for a prior quarter was incorrect, or has changed as a result of recalculation of the pricing data, we are obligated to resubmit the corrected data. Any corrections to our rebate calculations could result in an overage or underage in our rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the nature of the correction. Price recalculations also may affect the ceiling price at which we are required to offer our products to certain covered entities, under the 340B drug discount program.We are liable for errors associated with our submission of pricing data. In addition to retroactive rebates and the potential for 340B program refunds, if we are found to have knowingly submitted false average manufacturer price, average sales price, or best price information to the government, we may be liable for civil monetary penalties. Our failure to submit monthly/quarterly average manufacturer price, average sales price, and best price data on a timely basis could result in civil monetary penalties. Such failure also could be grounds for CMS to terminate our Medicaid drug rebate agreement, pursuant to which we participate in the Medicaid program. In the event that CMS terminates our rebate agreement, no federal payments would be available under Medicaid or Medicare Part B for our covered outpatient drugs.In September 2010, CMS and the Office of the Inspector General indicated that they intend more aggressively to pursue companies who fail to report these data to the government in a timely manner. Governmental agencies may also make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may have implications for amounts previously estimated or paid. We cannot assure you that our submissions will not be found by CMS to be incomplete or incorrect. We also participate in the Department of Veterans Affairs, or VA, Federal Supply Schedule, or FSS, pricing program. Pursuant to the applicable law, knowing provision of false information in connection with a non-federal average manufacturer price filing under this program can subject a manufacturer to penalties of $100,000 for each item of false information.In addition, pursuant to regulations issued by the DoD TRICARE Management Activity, or TMA, to implement Section 703 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, each of our covered drugs is listed on a Section 703 Agreement with TMA under which we have agreed to pay rebates on covered drug prescriptions dispensed to TRICARE beneficiaries by TRICARE network retail pharmacies. If we overcharge the government in connection with our FSS contract or Section 703 Agreement, whether due to a misstated FCP or otherwise, we are required to refund the difference to the government. Failure to make necessary disclosures and/or to identify contract overcharges can result in allegations against us under the False Claims Act and other laws and regulations. Unexpected refunds to the government, and responding to a government investigation or enforcement action, would be expensive and time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.We may be negatively affected by unforeseen invoicing of historical Medicaid sales.We provide a rebate related to Acthar dispensed to Medicaid eligible patients in instances where we are required to do so and establish a reserve for such rebate payments. We multiply the estimated rebate amount per unit for the period by the estimated number of rebate eligible units utilized during the period to calculate the estimated reserve for the period. This reserve is deducted from gross sales in the determination of net sales. Other than for Medicaid rebates associated with Medicaid Managed Care Organization (Medicaid MCO) utilization, the Medicaid rebates associated with end user demand for a period are mostly paid to the states by the end of the quarter following the quarter in which the rebate reserve is established. As a result, at the end of each quarter we must estimate the amount of Medicaid sales in that quarter to calculate the reserves and such estimates could prove to be inaccurate. Revisions in the Medicaid rebate estimates are charged to income in the period in which the information that gives rise to the revision becomes known. However, certain states may provide their requested rebates to us on a delayed basis, which to the extent not previously reserved for would negatively affect future financial performance in periods occurring after the period in which the original reserved Medicaid rebate accrual occurred. Effective March 23, 2010, the Healthcare Reform Act expanded rebate liability from fee-for-service Medicaid utilization to include the utilization of Medicaid MCOs as well. In connection with this expansion, we increased our reserves for Medicaid rebates. Our reserves for Medicaid MCO related rebates may not be adequate.In addition to receiving requested rebates on a delayed basis, pharmaceutical and biologic companies may be subject to investigation by various governmental agencies concerning Medicaid rebates. Governmental agencies and their agents, such as the Medicare Administrative Contractors, fiscal intermediaries and carriers, as well as the Office of the Inspector General, the Federal Bureau of Investigations, CMS, and state Medicaid programs, may conduct audits of our operations. The cost of responding to and resolving these audits could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Although we have processes and controls in place, should we be found out of compliance with any of these laws, regulations or programs, our business, our financial position and our results of operations could be negatively impacted.24Table of ContentsRisks Related to our Common StockOur stock price has a history of volatility, and an investment in our stock could decline in value.The price of our common stock is subject to significant volatility. The closing price per share of our common stock ranged in value from $17.83 to $72.34 during the two-year period ended December 31, 2013. Any number of events, both internal and external to us, may continue to affect our stock price. For example, our quarterly revenues or earnings or losses can fluctuate based on the buying patterns of our specialty distributor and our end users. In the event that patient demand for Acthar is less than our sales to our specialty distributor, excess Acthar inventories may result at our specialty distributor, which may impact future Acthar sales. Other potential events that could affect our stock price include, without limitation, our quarterly and yearly revenues and earnings or losses; announcements by us or our competitors regarding product development efforts, including the status of regulatory approval applications; the outcome of legal proceedings; the launch of competing products or the public notice of an FDA filing relating to a potential competitive product; and our ability to obtain product from our contract manufacturers, the publication of negative or neutral coverage by research analysts or others, and efforts to try to manipulate our stock price or interfere with our business operations by investors or others that engage in the manipulation of stock prices.As of January 31, 2014, NASDAQ reported a short interest of approximately 20.3 million shares in our common stock, and it is possible that the NASDAQ short interest reporting system does not fully capture total short interest. It is generally in the short seller's interests for the price of a stock to decline. We are aware that other companies have alleged that short sellers have taken various actions aimed at attempting to cause harm to a company’s business or reducing the stock price of such companies in order to generate profit on their short positions. These actions have been alleged to include arranging for the publication of negative opinions, mischaracterization of facts regarding companies and their business prospects, or taking more direct action to try to cause harm to a company’s business. As this potentially relates to us, our stock price exhibited significant volatility at various times during 2013 following various publications and other communications relating to us. There is risk that similar actions could continue to occur in 2014 and therefore continue to create significant volatility in our stock price. Our future policy concerning the payment of dividends is uncertain, which could adversely affect the price of our stock. We currently pay a quarterly dividend on our common stock. We may not have the financial ability to fund this quarterly dividend in perpetuity or to pay it at the current rate. Further, our Board of Directors may decide not to declare a dividend at some future time for financial or non-financial reasons. Unfulfilled expectations regarding future dividends could adversely affect the price of our stock.Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly and could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price.In addition to the risk factors detailed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our quarterly operating results and share price may fluctuate significantly because of several factors, including:•public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by us or others;•availability of Acthar;•patient safety concerns;•announced inquiries by governmental agencies or updates regarding previously announced inquiries;•unfavorable outcomes related to the government investigations or lawsuits brought against us or our directors and officers, including those currently in process;•departure of key managers;•negative opinions regarding company actions from proxy advisory firms;•activities of certain investors who elect to short sell our stock;•the announcement and timing of new product introductions by us or others;•the timing of our regulatory submissions or approvals, or the failure to receive regulatory approvals;•prescription trends and the level of orders from our specialty distributor within a given quarter and preceding quarters;25Table of Contents•availability and level of third party reimbursement;•political developments or proposed legislation in the pharmaceutical or healthcare industry;•economic or other external factors, disaster or crisis;•changes in government regulations or policies or patent decisions;•unforeseen financial or operational issues related to BioVectra or our other international operations;•failure to meet market expectations or changes in opinions of analysts who follow our stock; or•general market conditions.If we were to be negatively impacted by any of these factors, it could cause a decrease in our stock price.We have significant stock option overhang which could dilute your investment.We have an overhang of common stock due to a low average exercise price of employee stock options. The future exercise of employee stock options could cause dilution, which may negatively affect the market price of our shares.We have certain anti-takeover provisions in place.Certain provisions of our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and the California General Corporation Law could discourage a third-party from acquiring, or make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire, control of our company without approval of our Board of Directors. These provisions could also limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Certain provisions allow the Board of Directors to authorize the issuance of preferred stock with rights superior to those of the common stock. We are also subject to Section 1101(e) of the California General Corporation Law, which, among other things, limits the ability of a majority shareholder holding more than 50% but less than 90% of the outstanding shares of a California corporation from consummating a cash-out merger.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.