Item 1a. Risk Factors This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. 15 Table of Contents Factors Affecting Our Operating Results and Financial Condition We expect to continue to incur net losses, and we might never achieve profitability. We were incorporated in 1991 and have incurred a net operating loss every year. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $961.1 million. We are pursuing regulatory approval for XYOTAX and pixantrone and will need to conduct research, development, testing and regulatory compliance activities, expenses which, together with projected general and administrative expenses, will result in operating losses for the foreseeable future. We may never become profitable, even if we are able to commercialize products currently in development or otherwise. We have a substantial amount of debt. We have a substantial amount of debt outstanding, and our annual interest expense with respect to our debt is significant. Unless we generate substantial sales from one of our potential products or raise substantial additional capital, we may not be able to repay this debt or the interest, liquidated damages or other payments with respect to our debt. Prior to this debt becoming due, we may engage in one or more restructuring transactions which could involve, among other things, an effective increase in interest rates, alteration of terms or exchanges involving the issuance of additional shares of common stock or other arrangements which may dilute or be adverse to the value of our common stock. We expect to need to raise additional funds in the near future, and they may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. We expect that our existing cash and cash equivalents, securities available for sale and interest receivable will not be sufficient to fund our operations at current levels for the next 12 months and accordingly, we will need to raise additional funds. We are exploring alternatives to raise additional capital through public or private equity financings, partnerships, debt financings, bank borrowings or other sources. In particular, we will need to raise additional funds to complete the phase III clinical trials for XYOTAX and pixantrone. We may raise such capital through public or private equity financings, partnerships, debt financings or restructurings, bank borrowings or other sources. Additional funding may not be available on favorable terms or at all. If adequate funds are not otherwise available, we will further curtail operations significantly, including the delay, modification or cancellation of operations and plans related to XYOTAX, pixantrone and other products we may be developing. To obtain additional funding, we may need to enter into arrangements that require us to relinquish rights to certain technologies, drug candidates, products and/or potential markets. To the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity, or securities convertible into equity, shareholders may experience dilution of their proportionate ownership of us. We may be unable to obtain a quorum for our meeting of shareholders and therefore unable to take certain corporate actions. Our bylaws require that a quorum, consisting of a majority of the outstanding shares of voting stock, be represented in person or by proxy in order to transact business at a meeting of our shareholders. A quorum was not present at our annual meeting of shareholders scheduled for June 23, 2006 or at our rescheduled annual meeting scheduled for November 30, 2006, in Milan. We currently plan to hold a special meeting of shareholders on April 10, 2007, with the sole purpose being to increase the number of authorized shares of common stock. If we are unable to obtain a quorum at the special meeting and thus fail to get shareholder approval of this corporate action, such failure could have a materially adverse effect on the Company. It is possible that even if we are able to obtain a quorum for our special meeting of the shareholders we may still not receive enough votes to approve the increase in the number of authorized shares of our common stock. If we are unable to achieve this increase, such failure could have a materially adverse effect on the Company. 16 Table of Contents We could fail in financing efforts if we fail to receive shareholder approval when needed. We are required under the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules to obtain shareholder approval for any issuance of additional equity securities that would comprise more than 20% of our total shares of common stock outstanding before the issuance of the securities at a discount to the greater of book or market value in an offering that is not deemed to be a “public offering” by Nasdaq. Funding of our operations in the future may require shareholder approval for purposes of complying with the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules. We could require such approval to raise additional funds, but might not be successful in obtaining any such required shareholder approval. We may not receive the regulatory approvals required for us to raise funds using the Step-Up Equity Financing Agreement. In June 2006 we announced that we had entered into a Step-Up Equity Financing Agreement with Société Générale, pursuant to which we had the option, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, to issue shares of our common stock to Société Générale. If we are unable to increase the number of authorized shares of our common stock, as described in the risk factors above, we will be unable to issue shares under this agreement. We are also required to file and obtain an authorization for the publication of an Italian Listing Prospectus prior to being able to issue any shares under this agreement, and any delays or restrictions relating to this could potentially impair our ability to raise funds through this agreement. We will not be able to raise funds by issuing shares to Société Générale pursuant to this agreement if we are unable to satisfy this condition, and we may be unable to raise necessary funds from other sources. We are required to comply with the regulatory structure of Italy because our stock is traded on MTAX, which could result in administrative challenges. Our stock is traded on the MTAX market and we are required to also comply with the rules and regulations of CONSOB and Borsa Italiana, which collectively regulate companies listed on Italy’s public markets. Conducting our operations in a manner that complies with all applicable laws and rules requires us to devote additional time and resources to regulatory compliance matters. For example, the process of seeking to understand and comply with the laws of each country, including tax, labor and regulatory laws, might require us to incur the expense of engaging additional outside counsel, accountants and other professional advisors and might result in delayed business initiatives as we seek to ensure that each new initiative will comply with all regulatory regimes. Compliance with Italian listing requirements may delay additional issuances of our common stock and we are taking appropriate steps to conform to the requirements of the Italian stock exchange and CONSOB to allow such additional issuances. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and we have received an adverse opinion on internal control over financial reporting from our independent registered public accounting firm in connection with their annual internal control attestation process In December 2006 we discovered material inadvertent errors in accounting for accounts payable and accrued expenses in our Italian subsidiary, Cell Therapeutics, Europe Srl (CTI Europe). As a result of the discovery of these errors, we restated our March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006 and September 30, 2006 interim consolidated financial statements filed in Forms 10-Q/A. In connection with the restatements, we reevaluated our disclosure controls and procedures and identified the following material weaknesses: • We did not maintain an effective review and approval process in CTI (Europe) to ensure the accuracy of accounts payable and accrued expenses for certain activities shared by headquarters and CTI (Europe) in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. • We did not maintain effective internal controls related to the financial reporting process to detect errors that are not identified by the process level controls in CTI (Europe). 17 Table of Contents A material weakness is a control deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Because of these material weaknesses, management concluded that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on the framework established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Our registered independent public accounting firm of Stonefield Josephson, Inc., as auditors of the Company’s consolidated financial statements, has audited our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 and has issued an adverse opinion on our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006. The existence of a material weakness is an indication that there is more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of our financial statements will not be prevented or detected in the current or any future period. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately, which may cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. We may not realize any royalties, milestone payments or other benefits under the License and Co-Development agreement entered into with Novartis Pharmaceutical Company Ltd. We have entered into a License and Co-Development agreement related to XYOTAX and pixantrone with Novartis International Pharmaceutical Ltd., or Novartis, pursuant to which Novartis received an exclusive worldwide license for the development and commercialization of XYOTAX and an option to enter into an exclusive worldwide license to develop and commercialize pixantrone. We will not receive any royalty or milestone payments under this agreement unless Novartis elects to participate in the development and commercialization of XYOTAX or if Novartis exercises its option related to pixantrone and we are able to reach a definitive agreement. Novartis is under no obligation to make such election or exercise such right and may never do so. In addition, even if Novartis exercises such rights, any royalties and milestone payments we may be eligible to receive from Novartis are subject to the receipt of the necessary regulatory approvals and the attainment of certain sales levels. We may never receive the necessary regulatory approvals and our products may not reach the necessary sales levels. We may be delayed, limited or precluded from obtaining regulatory approval of XYOTAX given that our three STELLAR phase III clinical trials for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer did not meet their primary endpoints. In March 2005, we announced the results of STELLAR 3, and in May 2005, we announced the results of STELLAR 2 and 4, our phase III clinical trials of XYOTAX in non-small cell lung cancer. All three trials did not achieve their primary endpoints of superior overall survival compared to current marketed agents for treating NSCLC. Preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or preclude regulatory approval. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Our success depends in large part on obtaining regulatory approval of XYOTAX. In December 2006, we closed the PIONEER clinical trial and submitted a protocol for a new clinical trial, PGT306, to focus on the primary efficacy endpoint of survival in women with normal estrogen levels. We may not receive positive interim results from the PGT306 trial, which would preclude our planned submission of an NDA based on such interim results with the results of the STELLAR 3 and 4 trials to support the filing. Based on discussions with the EMEA Scientific Advice Working Party, we plan to submit an MAA in Europe based on results of the STELLAR trials, specifically the STELLAR 4 trial, however a successful 18 Table of Contents regulatory outcome from the EMEA is not assured as the EMEA’s final opinion cannot be predicted until they have had the opportunity to complete a thorough review of the clinical data that will be presented in the MAA. We are subject to extensive government regulation. We are subject to rigorous and extensive regulation by the FDA in the United States and by comparable agencies in other states and countries. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements could result in various adverse consequences, including possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, withdrawal of approved products from the market, product seizures, injunctions, monetary penalties, or criminal prosecution. Our products may not be marketed in the United States until they have been approved by the FDA and may not be marketed in other countries until they have received approval from the appropriate agencies. None of our current products have received approval. Obtaining regulatory approval requires substantial time, effort and financial resources, and we may not be able to obtain approval of any of our products on a timely basis, or at all. If our products are not approved in a timely fashion, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, both before and after approval, our contract manufacturers and our products are subject to numerous FDA requirements covering, among other things, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution and export. Manufacturing processes must conform to current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMPs. The FDA and other regulatory authorities periodically inspect manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMPs. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort to maintain compliance. We believe that while we owned TRISENOX, which was divested to Cephalon, Inc., in July 2005, it was prescribed by physicians largely for uses not approved by the FDA. Although physicians may lawfully prescribe pharmaceutical products, such as TRISENOX, for such off-label uses, promotion by us of such off-label uses is unlawful. Some of our practices intended to make physicians aware of off-label uses of TRISENOX, without engaging in off-label promotion, could nevertheless have been construed as off-label promotion, and it is likely that some instances of off-label promotion occurred in the past. Although we have policies and procedures in place designed to assure ongoing compliance with FDA requirements regarding off-label promotion, some non-compliant actions may nevertheless have occurred. In October 2004, we announced that the United States Attorney’s Office, or USAO, for the Western District of Washington had initiated an investigation into certain of our business practices relating to TRISENOX. USAO’s investigation relates to our promotional practices relating to TRISENOX; our reporting of revenue relating to TRISENOX sales; and statements made by our representatives, and our expert third party reimbursement consultant, relating to the eligibility of TRISENOX for Medicare reimbursement when the drug was used to treat certain off-label indications. USAO has issued subpoenas to third parties relating to its investigation. Claims associated with the above-referenced as well as related conduct have been filed against us under seal on behalf of the government by a private party in a qui tam action. After fully cooperating with USAO (through the provision of documents and periodic meetings) we have reached an oral agreement in principle with the USAO regarding the material terms of a settlement. The final terms and details of this settlement are subject to change and pending the completion and execution of a definitive settlement agreement between the Company and the USAO, but we understand that the agreement in principle is that we will make a single payment of $10.5 million to the USAO in return for a release of all government claims in connection with the qui tam action and related matters. We would not make any admission of wrongdoing as part of this settlement. There is no guarantee that the Company and the USAO will be able to complete a definitive settlement agreement on the terms of the oral agreement in principle or at all. This settlement does not address separate claims brought against the Company by the private party plaintiff in such matters, which generally relate to attorney’s fees and employment related claims. We believe that claims related to wrongful termination are not meritorious. We believe that regardless of whether the government or the private party pursues this lawsuit that one of the primary claims that might be pursued would be that we violated the 19 Table of Contents Federal False Claims Act by receiving reimbursement from Medicare for improper off-label use of TRISENOX or otherwise ineligible sales of TRISENOX over the period ranging from October 2000 until TRISENOX’ disposition to Cephalon in July of 2005. During this period we utilized a third party reimbursement expert. We believe that we have meritorious defenses to these claims. It is unclear to us under this theory what sales or portions thereof would be in question. Under the False Claims Act, damages can be trebled and separate fines imposed for each violation, if the government or the private party plaintiff were to prevail in this lawsuit it is likely that such an adverse judgment would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Additionally, we are subject to numerous regulations and statutes regulating the manner of selling and obtaining reimbursement for our products that receive marketing approval. For example, federal statutes generally prohibit providing certain discounts and payments to physicians to encourage them to prescribe our product. Violations of such regulations or statutes may result in treble damages, criminal or civil penalties, fines or exclusion of CTI or our employees from participation in federal and state healthcare programs. Although we have policies prohibiting violations of relevant regulations and statutes, unauthorized actions of our employees or consultants (including unlawful off-label promotion), or unfavorable interpretations of such regulations or statutes may result in third-parties or regulatory agencies bringing legal proceedings or enforcement actions against us. We face direct and intense competition from our competitors in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, and we may not compete successfully against them. Competition in the oncology market is intense and is accentuated by the rapid pace of technological development. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter the market. Our competitors in the United States and elsewhere are numerous and include, among others, major multinational pharmaceutical companies, specialized biotechnology companies and universities and other research institutions. Specifically: • If we are successful in bringing XYOTAX to market, we will face direct competition from oncology-focused multinational corporations. XYOTAX will compete with other taxanes. Many oncology-focused multinational corporations currently market or are developing taxanes, epothilones, and other cytotoxic agents, which inhibit cancer cells by a mechanism similar to taxanes, or similar products including, among others, Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., which markets paclitaxel; Aventis, which markets docetaxel; Genentech and OSI Pharmaceuticals, which markets Tarceva™; Genentech, which markets Avastin™, Lilly, which markets Alimta®, and American Pharmaceutical Partners, which markets Abraxane™. In addition, several companies such as NeoPharm Inc., Sonus Pharmaceuticals and Telik, Inc. are also developing products which could compete with XYOTAX. • Because pixantrone is intended to provide less toxic treatment to patients who have failed standard chemotherapy treatment, if pixantrone is brought to market, it is not expected to compete directly with many existing chemotherapies. However, pixantrone will face competition from currently marketed anthracyclines, such as mitoxantrone (Novantrone®), and new anti-cancer drugs with reduced toxicity that may be developed and marketed. Many of our competitors, either alone or together with their collaborators and in particular, the multinational pharmaceutical companies, have substantially greater financial resources and development and marketing teams than us. In addition, many of our competitors, either alone or together with their collaborators, have significantly greater experience than we do in developing, manufacturing and marketing products. As a result, these companies’ products might come to market sooner or might prove to be more effective, less expensive, have fewer side effects or be easier to administer than ours. In any such case, sales of our products or eventual products would likely suffer and we might never recoup the significant investments we are making to develop these product candidates. 20 Table of Contents Uncertainty regarding third-party reimbursement and healthcare cost containment initiatives may limit our returns. The ongoing efforts of governmental and third-party payors to contain or reduce the cost of healthcare may affect our ability to commercialize our products successfully. Governmental and other third-party payors continue to attempt to contain healthcare costs by: • challenging the prices charged for health care products and services, • limiting both coverage and the amount of reimbursement for new therapeutic products, • denying or limiting coverage for products that are approved by the FDA but are considered experimental or investigational by third-party payors, • refusing in some cases to provide coverage when an approved product is used for disease indications in a way that has not received FDA marketing approval, and • denying coverage altogether. The trend toward managed healthcare in the United States, the growth of organizations such as health maintenance organizations, and legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance programs could significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and products, resulting in lower prices and reducing demand for our products. In addition, in almost all European markets, pricing and choice of prescription pharmaceuticals are subject to governmental control. Therefore, the price of our products and their reimbursement in Europe will be determined by national regulatory authorities. Even if we succeed in bringing any of our proposed products to the market, they may not be considered cost-effective and third-party reimbursement might not be available or sufficient. If adequate third-party coverage is not available, we may not be able to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in research and product development. In addition, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change in ways adverse to us before or after any of our proposed products are approved for marketing. Even if our drug candidates are successful in clinical trials, we may not be able to successfully commercialize them. Since our inception in 1991, we have dedicated substantially all of our resources to the research and development of our technologies and related compounds. All of our compounds currently are in research or development, and none have been submitted for marketing approval. Prior to commercialization, each product candidate requires significant research, development and preclinical testing and extensive clinical investigation before submission of any regulatory application for marketing approval. The development of anti-cancer drugs, including those we are currently developing, is unpredictable and subject to numerous risks. Potential products that appear to be promising at early stages of development may not reach the market for a number of reasons including that they may: • be found ineffective or cause harmful side effects during preclinical testing or clinical trials, • fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals, • be difficult to manufacture on a scale necessary for commercialization, • be uneconomical to produce, • fail to achieve market acceptance, or • be precluded from commercialization by proprietary rights of third parties. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect the commercialization of our products. Products, if introduced, may not be successfully marketed and/or may not achieve customer acceptance. If we 21 Table of Contents fail to commercialize products or if our future products do not achieve significant market acceptance, we will not likely generate significant revenues or become profitable. If any of our license agreements for intellectual property underlying XYOTAX, pixantrone or any other products are terminated, we may lose our rights to develop or market that product. We have licensed intellectual property, including patent applications from The University of Vermont, Hoffman La Roche and others, including the intellectual property relating to pixantrone. We have also in-licensed the intellectual property relating to our drug delivery technology that uses polymers that are linked to drugs, known as polymer-drug conjugates, including XYOTAX and CT-2106. Some of our product development programs depend on our ability to maintain rights under these licenses. Each licensor has the power to terminate its agreement with us if we fail to meet our obligations under these licenses. We may not be able to meet our obligations under these licenses. If we default under any license agreements, we may lose our right to market and sell any products based on the licensed technology. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, our competitive position could be harmed. Development and protection of our intellectual property are critical to our business. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to practice our technologies. Our success depends in part on our ability to: • obtain patent protection for our products or processes both in the United States and other countries, • protect trade secrets, and • prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. When polymers are linked, or conjugated, to drugs, the results are referred to as polymer-drug conjugates. We are developing drug delivery technology that links chemotherapy to biodegradable polymers. For example, XYOTAX is paclitaxel, the active ingredient in Taxol®, one of the world’s best selling cancer drugs, linked to polyglutamate. We may not receive a patent for all of our polymer-drug conjugates and we may be challenged by the holder of a patent covering the underlying drug and/or methods for its use or manufacture. The patent position of biopharmaceutical firms generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has not established a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims that it will allow in biotechnology patents. If it allows broad claims, the number and cost of patent interference proceedings in the United States and the risk of infringement litigation may increase. If it allows narrow claims, the risk of infringement may decrease, but the value of our rights under our patents, licenses and patent applications may also decrease. Patent applications in which we have rights may never issue as patents and the claims of any issued patents may not afford meaningful protection for our technologies or products. In addition, patents issued to us or our licensors may be challenged and subsequently narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. Litigation, interference proceedings or other governmental proceedings that we may become involved in with respect to our proprietary technologies or the proprietary technology of others could result in substantial cost to us. Patent litigation is widespread in the biotechnology industry, and any patent litigation could harm our business. Costly litigation might be necessary to protect a patent position or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights, and we may not have the required resources to pursue any such litigation or to protect our patent rights. Any adverse outcome in litigation with respect to the infringement or validity of any patents owned by third-parties could subject us to significant liabilities to third-parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third-parties or require us to cease using a product or technology. We also rely upon trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation to remain competitive. Third-parties may independently develop such know-how or otherwise obtain access to our technology. While we require our employees, consultants and corporate partners with access to proprietary information to enter into confidentiality agreements, these agreements may not be honored. 22 Table of Contents Our products could infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to engage in costly litigation and, if unsuccessful, could cause us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from selling our products. We attempt to monitor patent filings but have not conducted an exhaustive search for patents that may be relevant to our products and product candidates in an effort to guide the design and development of our products to avoid infringement. We may not be able to successfully challenge the validity of these patents and could have to pay substantial damages, possibly including treble damages, for past infringement and attorney’s fees if it is ultimately determined that our products infringe a third-party’s patents. Further, we may be prohibited from selling our products before we obtain a license, which, if available at all, may require us to pay substantial royalties. Moreover, third-parties may challenge the patents that have been issued or licensed to us. Even if infringement claims against us are without merit, or if we challenge the validity of issued patents, lawsuits take significant time, may be expensive and may divert management attention from other business concerns. We may be unable to obtain the raw materials necessary to produce our XYOTAX product candidate in sufficient quantity to meet demand when and if such product is approved. We may not be able to continue to purchase the materials necessary to produce XYOTAX, including paclitaxel, in adequate volume and quality. Paclitaxel is derived from certain varieties of yew trees and the supply of paclitaxel is controlled by a limited number of companies. Paclitaxel is available and we have purchased it from several sources. We purchase the raw materials paclitaxel and polyglutamic acid from a single source on a purchase order basis. Should the paclitaxel or polyglutamic acid purchased from our sources prove to be insufficient in quantity or quality, should a supplier fail to deliver in a timely fashion or at all, or should these relationships terminate, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient supply from alternate sources on acceptable terms, or at all. Our dependence on third-party manufacturers means that we do not always have sufficient control over the manufacture of our products. We do not currently have internal analytical laboratory or manufacturing facilities to allow the testing or production of drug products in compliance with cGMPs. Because we do not directly control our suppliers, these vendors may not be able to provide us with finished product when we need it. We will be dependent upon these third-parties to supply us in a timely manner with products manufactured in compliance with cGMPs or similar manufacturing standards imposed by foreign regulatory authorities where our products will be tested and/or marketed. While the FDA and other regulatory authorities maintain oversight for cGMP compliance of drug manufacturers, contract manufacturers may at times violate cGMPs. The FDA and other regulatory authorities may take action against a contract manufacturer who violates cGMPs. One of our products under development, XYOTAX, has a complex manufacturing process, which may prevent us from obtaining a sufficient supply of drug product for the clinical trials and commercial activities currently planned or underway on a timely basis, if at all. The active pharmaceutical ingredient and finished product for pixantrone are both manufactured by a single vendor. If the CT-2106 trials are successful and we need to manufacture additional materials for new clinical trials, we will need to identify and qualify vendors to manufacture and we may not be able to do so in a timely manner, if at all. If we do not successfully develop additional products, we may be unable to generate significant revenue or become profitable. We divested our sole commercial product, TRISENOX, in July 2005. XYOTAX, pixantrone and CT-2106 are currently in clinical trials and may not be successful. For example, our STELLAR phase III clinical trials for XYOTAX for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer failed to meet their primary endpoints. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including us, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical 23 Table of Contents trials, even after reporting promising results in earlier trials. We will need to commit significant time and resources to develop this and additional product candidates. Our product candidates will be successful only if: • our product candidates are developed to a stage that will enable us to commercialize them or sell related marketing rights to pharmaceutical companies; • we are able to commercialize product candidates in clinical development or sell the marketing rights to third parties; and • our product candidates, if developed, are approved by the regulatory authorities. We are dependent on the successful completion of these goals in order to generate revenues. The failure to generate such revenues may preclude us from continuing our research and development of these and other product candidates. If we are unable to enter into new licensing arrangements, our future product portfolio and potential profitability could be harmed. One component of our business strategy is in-licensing drug compounds developed by other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies or academic research laboratories. Substantially all of our product candidates in clinical development are in-licensed from a third-party, including XYOTAX, pixantrone and CT-2106. Competition for new promising compounds and commercial products can be intense. If we are not able to identify future in-licensing opportunities and enter into future licensing arrangements on acceptable terms, our future product portfolio and potential profitability could be harmed. We may take longer to complete our clinical trials than we expect, or we may not be able to complete them at all. Before regulatory approval for any potential product can be obtained, we must undertake extensive clinical testing on humans to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the product. Although for planning purposes we forecast the commencement and completion of clinical trials, the actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to a number of factors. We may not obtain authorization to permit product candidates that are already in the preclinical development phase to enter the human clinical testing phase. Authorized preclinical or clinical testing may not be completed successfully within any specified time period by us, or without significant additional resources or expertise to those originally expected to be necessary. Many drugs in human clinical trials fail to demonstrate the desired safety and efficacy characteristics. Clinical testing may not show potential products to be safe and efficacious and potential products may not be approved for a specific indication. Further, the results from preclinical studies and early clinical trials may not be indicative of the results that will be obtained in later-stage clinical trials. Data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations. Government regulators and our collaborators may not agree with our interpretation of our clinical trial results. In addition, we or regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials at any time on the basis that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. Completion of clinical trials depends on, among other things, the number of patients available for enrollment in a particular trial, which is a function of many factors, including the number of patients with the relevant conditions, the nature of the clinical testing, the proximity of patients to clinical testing centers, the eligibility criteria for tests as well as competition with other clinical testing programs involving the same patient profile but different treatments. We have limited experience in conducting clinical trials. We expect to continue to rely on third-parties, such as contract research organizations, academic institutions and/or cooperative groups, to conduct, oversee and monitor clinical trials as well as to process the clinical results and manage test requests, which may result in delays or failure to complete trials, if the third-parties fail to perform or to meet the applicable standards. If we fail to commence or complete, need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned or experience delays in any of our present or planned clinical trials, our development costs may increase and/or our 24 Table of Contents ability to commercialize our product candidates may be adversely affected. If delays or costs are significant, our financial results and our ability to commercialize our product candidates may be adversely affected. If we fail to establish and maintain collaborations or if our partners do not perform, we may be unable to develop and commercialize our product candidates. We have entered into collaborative arrangements with third-parties to develop and/or commercialize product candidates and are currently seeking additional collaborations. For example, we entered into an agreement with the Gynecologic Oncology Group to perform a phase III trial of XYOTAX in patients with ovarian cancer. Additional collaborations might be necessary in order for us to fund our research and development activities and third-party manufacturing arrangements, seek and obtain regulatory approvals and successfully commercialize our existing and future product candidates. If we fail to enter into additional collaborative arrangements or fail to maintain our existing collaborative arrangements, the number of product candidates from which we could receive future revenues would decline. Our dependence on collaborative arrangements with third-parties will subject us to a number of risks that could harm our ability to develop and commercialize products, including that: • collaborative arrangements may not be on terms favorable to us; • disagreements with partners may result in delays in the development and marketing of products, termination of our collaboration agreements or time consuming and expensive legal action; • we cannot control the amount and timing of resources partners devote to product candidates or their prioritization of product candidates and partners may not allocate sufficient funds or resources to the development, promotion or marketing of our products, or may not perform their obligations as expected; • partners may choose to develop, independently or with other companies, alternative products or treatments, including products or treatments which compete with ours; • agreements with partners may expire or be terminated without renewal, or partners may breach collaboration agreements with us; • business combinations or significant changes in a partner’s business strategy might adversely affect that partner’s willingness or ability to complete its obligations to us; and • the terms and conditions of the relevant agreements may no longer be suitable. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect the development or commercialization of our products. Because we base several of our drug candidates on unproven novel technologies, we may never develop them into commercial products. We base several of our product candidates upon novel technologies that we are using to develop drugs for the treatment of cancer. These technologies have not been proven. Furthermore, preclinical results in animal studies may not predict outcomes in human clinical trials. Our product candidates may not be proven safe or effective. If these technologies do not work, our drug candidates may not develop into commercial products. We are subject to additional legal duties, additional operational challenges and additional political and economic risks related to our operations in Italy. A portion of our business is based in Italy. We are subject to duties and risks arising from doing business in Italy, such as: • Italian employment law, including collective bargaining agreements negotiated at the national level and over which we have no control; 25 Table of Contents • European data protection regulations, under which we will be unable to send private personal data, including many employment records and some clinical trial data, from our Italian offices to our U.S. offices until our U.S. offices self-certify their adherence to the safe harbor framework established by the U. S. Department of Commerce in consultation with the European Commission; • tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers; and • capital controls, terrorism and other political risks. We are also subject to the following operational challenges, among others, as a result of our merger with Novuspharma and having a portion of our business and operations based in Italy: • effectively pursuing the clinical development and regulatory approvals of all product candidates; • successfully commercializing products under development; • coordinating research and development activities to enhance introduction of new products and technologies; • coalescing the Italian business culture with our own and maintaining employee morale; and • maintaining appropriate uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies relating to financial reporting and employment related matters, and the conduct of development activities that comply with both U.S. and Italian laws and regulations. We may not succeed in addressing these challenges, risks and duties, any of which may be exacerbated by the geographic separation of our operations in the United States and in Italy. These risks related to doing business in Italy could harm the results of our operations. Because there is a risk of product liability associated with our products, we face potential difficulties in obtaining insurance. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of human pharmaceutical products, and we may not be able to avoid significant product liability exposure. While we have insurance covering product use in our clinical trials, it is possible that we will not be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that any insurance obtained will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Our inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or limit the commercialization of any products we develop. A successful product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage could exceed our net worth. Since we use hazardous materials in our business, we may be subject to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. We are subject to international, federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such materials and certain waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated completely. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability not covered by insurance could exceed our resources. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. We may not be able to conduct animal testing in the future, which could harm our research and development activities. Certain of our research and development activities involve animal testing. Such activities have been the subject of controversy and adverse publicity. Animal rights groups and other organizations and individuals have 26 Table of Contents attempted to stop animal testing activities by pressing for legislation and regulation in these areas and by disrupting activities through protests and other means. To the extent the activities of these groups are successful, our business could be materially harmed by delaying or interrupting our research and development activities. Our operations in Italy make us subject to increased risk regarding currency exchange rate fluctuations. As a result of operations in Italy, we are exposed to risks associated with foreign currency transactions insofar as we use U.S. dollars to make contract payments denominated in euros or vice versa. As the net positions of our foreign currency transactions might fluctuate, our earnings might be negatively affected. In addition, we are exposed to risks associated with the translation of euro-denominated financial results and accounts into U.S. dollars. Our reporting currency will remain as the U.S. dollar; however, a portion of our consolidated financial obligations will arise in euros. In addition, the carrying value of some of our assets and liabilities will be affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to the euro. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to the euro might have an adverse effect on our reported results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related To the Securities Markets Our stock price is extremely volatile, which may affect our ability to raise capital in the future and may subject the value of your investment in our securities to sudden decreases. The market price for securities of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including ours, historically has been highly volatile, and the market from time to time has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. For example, during the twelve month period ended December 31, 2006, our stock price ranged from a low of $1.12 to a high of $2.53. Fluctuations in the trading price or liquidity of our common stock may adversely affect the value of your investment in our common stock. Factors that may have a significant impact on the market price and marketability of our securities include: • announcements by us or others of results of preclinical testing and clinical trials and regulatory actions; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial therapeutic products by us, our collaborative partners or our present or potential competitors; • the issuance of additional debt, equity or other securities; • our quarterly operating results; • developments or disputes concerning patent or other proprietary rights; • developments in our relationships with collaborative partners; • acquisitions or divestitures; • litigation and government proceedings; • adverse legislation, including changes in governmental regulation; • third-party reimbursement policies; • changes in securities analysts’ recommendations; • changes in health care policies and practices; • economic and other external factors; and • general market conditions. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. For example, in the case of our company, beginning in March 2005, 27 Table of Contents several class action lawsuits were instituted against CTI, James Bianco and Max Link and a derivative action lawsuit was filed against CTI’s full board of directors. While these lawsuits were dismissed with prejudice, as a result of these types of lawsuits, we could incur substantial legal fees and our management’s attention and resources could be diverted from operating our business as we respond to the litigation. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Washington law could make removal of incumbent management or an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our shareholders, more difficult. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of deterring or delaying attempts by our shareholders to remove or replace management, to commence proxy contests, or to effect changes in control. These provisions include: • a classified board so that only approximately one third of the board of directors is elected each year; • elimination of cumulative voting in the election of directors; • procedures for advance notification of shareholder nominations and proposals; • the ability of our board of directors to amend our bylaws without shareholder approval; and • the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without shareholder approval upon the terms and conditions and with the rights, privileges and preferences as the board of directors may determine. In addition, as a Washington corporation, we are subject to Washington law which imposes restrictions on some transactions between a corporation and certain significant shareholders. These provisions, alone or together, could have the effect of deterring or delaying changes in incumbent management, proxy contests or changes in control. Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 