Item 1a. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The occurrence of any of the risks described below and elsewhere in this document, including the risk that our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects and the trading price of our securities. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we currently deem immaterial may also harm our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects and the trading price of our securities. Factors Affecting Our Operating Results and Financial Condition We expect that we will need to raise additional financing to develop our business, but additional funds may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Any inability to raise required capital when needed could impair our ability to make our contractually obligated payments and harm our liquidity, financial condition, business, operating results and prospects. We have substantial operating expenses associated with the development of our product candidates and the commercialization of PIXUVRI, and we have significant contractual payment obligations. Our available cash and cash equivalents were $71.6 million as of December 31, 2013. At our currently planned spending rate, we believe that our present financial resources, together with pacritinib milestone payments projected to be earned and received over the course of 2014 and 2015 under our collaboration with Baxter and expected European sales from PIXUVRI, will be sufficient to fund our operations into the third quarter of 2015. Cash forecasts and capital requirements are subject to change as a result of a variety of risks and uncertainties. Changes in manufacturing, clinical trial expenses, any expansion of our sales and marketing organization in Europe and other unplanned business developments may consume capital resources earlier than planned. Additionally, we may not receive the anticipated pacritinib milestone payments or sales from PIXUVRI. Due to these and other factors, our forecast for the period for which we will have sufficient resources to fund our operations, as well as any other operational or business projection we have disclosed, or may, from time to time, disclose, may fail. We have $15.0 million outstanding under our senior secured term loan agreement. We are required to make monthly interest payments of approximately $158,000, and commencing May 1, 2014 through October 1, 2016, we will be required to make monthly interest plus principal payments in the aggregate amount of approximately $584,000. The loan agreement also requires us to comply with restrictive covenants, including those that limit our operating flexibility and ability to borrow additional funds. A failure to make a required loan payment or an uncured covenant breach could lead to an event of default, and in such case, all amounts then outstanding may become due and payable immediately. We expect that we will need to acquire additional funds in order to develop our business, including in the event our costs are greater than anticipated or our cash inflow projections fail, or in the event we seek to expand our operations. We may seek to raise such capital through equity or debt financings, partnerships, collaborations, joint ventures, disposition of assets or other sources, but our ability to do so is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: • our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or convertible securities is restricted by the limited number of our residual authorized shares, the difficulty of obtaining shareholder approval to increase authorized shares, and the restrictive covenants of our senior secured term loan agreement; • issuance of equity securities or convertible securities will dilute the proportionate ownership of existing shareholders; • our ability to raise debt capital is limited by our existing senior secured term loan agreement; 21 Table of Contents • some of such arrangements may require us to relinquish rights to certain assets; and • we may be required to meet additional regulatory requirements, and we may be subject to certain contractual limitations, which may increase our costs and harm our ability to obtain funding. Additional funding may not be available on favorable terms or at all. If we fail to obtain additional capital when needed, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our research and development programs, reduce our selling, general and administrative expenses and/or refrain from making our contractually required payments when due, which could harm our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. We may continue to incur net losses, and we may never achieve profitability. We were incorporated in 1991 and have incurred a net operating loss every year since our formation. As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.9 billion. We are pursuing regulatory approvals for PIXUVRI, pacritinib, tosedostat and Opaxio. We will need to continue to conduct research, development, testing and regulatory compliance activities and procure manufacturing and drug supply services, the costs of which, together with projected general and administrative expenses, may result in operating losses for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurances that we will ever achieve profitability. If our collaboration with Baxter with respect to pacritinib or any other collaboration for our products or product candidates is not successful, or if we are unable to enter into additional collaborations, we may not be able to effectively develop and/or commercialize the applicable product(s), which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Under the Baxter Agreement, we rely heavily on Baxter to collaborate with us in respect of the development and global commercialization of our lead product candidate, pacritinib. As a result of our dependence on our relationship with Baxter, the eventual success or commercial viability of pacritinib is, to a certain extent, beyond our control. We are subject to a number of specific risks associated with our dependence on our collaborative relationship with Baxter, including: possible disagreements between Baxter and us as to the timing, nature and extent of our development plans, including clinical trials or regulatory approval strategy; changes in personnel at Baxter who are key to the collaboration efforts; any changes in Baxter’s business strategy adverse to our interests; and possible disagreements with Baxter regarding ownership of proprietary rights. Furthermore, the contingent financial returns under our collaboration with Baxter depend in large part on the achievement of development and commercialization milestones, plus a share of revenues from any sales. Therefore, our success, and any associated future financial returns to us and our investors, will depend in large in part on the performance of both Baxter and us under the Baxter Agreement. The continued development of our other product candidates also depends on our ability to enter into and/or maintain collaborations. We have entered into a third-party service provider agreement with Quintiles Commercial Europe Limited, or Quintiles, whereby Quintiles provides a variety of services related to the commercialization of PIXUVRI in Europe. We are also pursuing potential partners for commercializing PIXUVRI in other markets outside of the U.S. and our current target E.U. markets discussed in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Because we rely on third parties to manufacture, distribute, and market and sell PIXUVRI, we have limited control over the efforts of these third parties, and we may receive less revenue than if we commercialized PIXUVRI ourselves. We are also a party to other agreements with third parties for our product candidates, including an agreement with the GOG, to perform a Phase 3 trial of Opaxio in patients with ovarian cancer. If we fail to enter into additional collaborative arrangements or to maintain existing or future arrangements and service provider relationships, we may be unable to further develop and commercialize product candidates, generate revenues to grow, sustain our business or achieve profitability, which would harm our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. 22 Table of Contents Our clinical trials may take longer to complete than expected, or they may not be completed at all. Our business is dependent on our ability, and to the extent applicable, the ability of our collaboration partners and other third parties (such as cooperative groups and ISTs), to successfully undertake extensive clinical testing on humans to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the applicable regulatory authority the safety and efficacy of the product for its intended use. For example, our ability to develop pacritinib depends on the successful completion of two Phase 3 trials, one of which initiated in January 2013 and the second of which opened for enrollment in March 2014. Preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. We forecast the commencement and completion of clinical trials for planning purposes, but actual commencement or completion may take longer than planned or not be completed at all due to a number of reasons, including: • we may not obtain authorization to permit product candidates that are already in the preclinical development phase to enter the human clinical testing phase; • the FDA, the EMA or other regulatory authority may object to proposed protocols or could place a partial or full hold on any clinical trial at any time; • there may be shortages of available product supplies or the materials that are used to manufacture the products or the quality or stability of the product candidates may fall below acceptable standards; • authorized preclinical or clinical testing may require significantly more time, resources or expertise than originally expected to be necessary; • clinical testing may not show potential products to be safe and efficacious for the specific indication for which they are tested and, as with many drugs, may fail to demonstrate the desired safety and efficacy characteristics in human clinical trials; • the results from preclinical studies and early clinical trials may not be indicative of the results that will be obtained in later-stage clinical trials; • inadequate financing to complete a clinical trial; • we, or to the extent applicable, our collaboration partners, or regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials at any time on the basis that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons; and • the rates of patient recruitment and enrollment of patients who meet trial eligibility criteria may be lower than anticipated as a result of factors, such as the number of patients with the relevant conditions, the nature of the clinical testing, the proximity of patients to clinical testing centers, the eligibility criteria for tests as well as competition with other clinical testing programs involving the same patient profile but different treatments. In addition, the failure of third parties, including, where applicable, contract research organizations, academic institutions, collaborators, cooperative groups and/or investigator sponsors, to conduct, oversee and monitor clinical trials, as well as to process clinical results, manage test requests and meet applicable standards, can affect the timing and outcome of the applicable trials. In particular, the clinical trials currently underway for tosedostat and Opaxio are being conducted as cooperative group trials and ISTs, and as such, are not under our control. A delay in, or failure to commence or complete, any present or planned clinical trials, or the need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned, could result in an increase in development costs, which could harm our ability to commercialize our product candidates, and our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects. 23 Table of Contents Products that appear promising in research and development may be delayed or fail to reach later stages of development or the market. The successful development of anti-cancer drugs and other pharmaceutical products is highly uncertain, and obtaining regulatory approval to market drugs to treat cancer is expensive, difficult and speculative. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including us, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after reporting promising results in earlier trials. For example, our Phase 3 clinical trials for Opaxio for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer failed to meet their primary endpoints. In addition, in June 2013, the FDA implemented a partial clinical hold on tosedostat, which prevented new patients from entering any ongoing tosedostat clinical trials. This hold was lifted in December 2013. Products that appear promising in research and development may be delayed or fail to reach later stages of development or the market for several reasons, including: • preclinical or clinical trial results may show the product to be less effective than desired or to have harmful or problematic side effects; • failure to receive the necessary U.S. and international regulatory approvals or a delay in receiving such approvals; • difficulties in formulating the product, scaling the manufacturing process or getting approval for manufacturing; • manufacturing costs, pricing, reimbursement issues or other factors may make the product uneconomical to commercialize; • any problem in the production of our products, such as the inability of a supplier to provide raw materials or supplies used to manufacture our products, equipment obsolescence, malfunctions or failures, product quality or contamination problems, or changes in regulatory requirements or standards that require modifications to our manufacturing process; • the product candidate may not be cost effective compared to alternative treatments; or • other companies or people have or may have proprietary rights to a product candidate, such as patent rights, and will not let the product candidate be sold on reasonable terms, or at all. If the development of our product candidates is delayed, our development costs may increase, the product may not reach later stages of development and/or the ability to commercialize our product candidates may be harmed, which could harm our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects. We or our collaboration partners may not obtain or maintain the regulatory approvals required to commercialize some or all of our products. We are subject to rigorous and extensive regulation by the FDA in the U.S. and by comparable agencies in other states and countries, including the EMA in the E.U. Pacritinib and all of our other compounds are currently in research or development and, other than conditional marketing authorization for PIXUVRI in the E.U., we have not received marketing approval for these other compounds or FDA marketing approval of PIXUVRI (and we are not currently pursuing FDA marketing approval of PIXUVRI). Information about the status of the regulatory approval of PIXUVRI, pacritinib, tosedostat and Opaxio can be found in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and is incorporated by reference herein. Our products may not be marketed in the U.S. until they have been approved by the FDA and may not be marketed in other countries until they have received approval from the appropriate agencies. Each product candidate requires significant research, development and preclinical testing and extensive clinical investigation before submission of any regulatory application for marketing approval. Obtaining regulatory approval requires substantial time, effort and financial resources, and we may not be able to obtain approval of any of our products on a timely basis, or at all. The number and focus of preclinical and clinical trials that will be 24 Table of Contents required for approval by the FDA, the EMA or any other foreign regulatory agency varies depending on the drug candidate, the disease or condition that the drug candidate is designed to address and the regulations applicable to any particular drug candidate. Preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or preclude regulatory approval. The FDA, the EMA and other foreign regulatory agencies can delay, limit or deny approval of a drug candidate for many reasons, including, but not limited to: • a drug candidate may not be shown to be safe or effective; • a clinical trial results in negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events occur during a clinical trial; • they may not approve the manufacturing process of a drug candidate; • they may interpret data from pre-clinical and clinical trials in different ways than we do; • a drug candidate may fail to comply with regulatory requirements; or • they might change their approval policies or adopt new regulations. Any delay or failure by us to obtain regulatory approvals of our products could adversely affect the marketing of our products. If our products are not approved quickly enough to provide net revenues to defray our operating expenses, our business, financial condition and operating results will be harmed. Even if our drug candidates are successful in clinical trials and receive regulatory approvals, we or our collaboration partners may not be able to successfully commercialize them. Pacritinib, Opaxio and tosedostat are currently in clinical trials; the development and clinical trials of these products may not be successful and, even if they are, such products may never be successfully developed into commercial products. Even if our products are successful in clinical trials or in obtaining other regulatory approvals, our products (even those that have been granted conditional marketing authorization, such as PIXUVRI) may not reach the market for a number of reasons including: • they may be found ineffective or cause harmful side effects; • they may be difficult to manufacture on a scale necessary for commercialization; • they may be uneconomical to produce; • we may fail to obtain reimbursement amount approvals or pricing that is cost effective for patients as compared to other available forms of treatment; • they may not compete effectively with existing or future alternatives to our products; • we are unable to sell marketing rights or develop commercial operations; • they may fail to achieve market acceptance; or • we may be precluded from commercialization of our products by proprietary rights of third parties. In particular, with respect to the future potential commercialization of pacritinib, we will be heavily dependent on our collaboration partner, Baxter. Under the terms of our agreement, Baxter has exclusive commercialization rights for all indications for pacritinib outside the U.S., while Baxter and CTI share commercialization rights in the U.S. The failure of Baxter (or any other applicable collaboration partner) to fulfill its commercialization obligations with respect to a product, or the occurrence of any of the events itemized in the foregoing list, could adversely affect the commercialization of our products. If we fail to commercialize products or if our future products do not achieve significant market acceptance, we will not likely generate significant revenues or become profitable. 25 Table of Contents If users of our products are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from third party payers, market acceptance of our products may be limited and we may not achieve anticipated revenues. To the extent our products are successfully introduced to market, they may not be considered cost-effective and third-party or government reimbursement might not be available or sufficient. Governmental and other third-party payors continue to attempt to contain healthcare costs by strictly controlling, directly or indirectly, pricing and reimbursement, and we expect pressures on pricing and reimbursement from both governments and private payers inside and outside the U.S. to continue. In almost all European markets, pricing and choice of prescription pharmaceuticals are subject to governmental control. Therefore, the price of our products and their reimbursement in Europe is and will be determined by national regulatory authorities. A variety of factors are considered in making reimbursement decisions, including whether there is sufficient evidence to show that treatment with the product is more effective than current treatments, that the product represents good value for money for the health service it provides and that treatment with the product works at least as well as currently available treatments. Reimbursement decisions from any of the European markets may impact reimbursement decisions in other European markets. The continuing efforts of government and insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other payers of healthcare costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may affect our future revenues and profitability, and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborative partners and the availability of capital. We may never be able to generate significant product revenues from the sale of PIXUVRI. We anticipate that, for at least the next several years, our ability to generate revenues and become profitable will depend on the commercial success in Europe of our only marketed product candidate, PIXUVRI. PIXUVRI is not approved for marketing in the U.S. PIXUVRI is available to healthcare providers in certain countries in the E.U. See Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a discussion of the reimbursement status in the applicable E.U. countries. However, our ability to continue to commercialize PIXUVRI in Europe will depend on our ability to obtain an annual renewal of our conditional marketing authorization for PIXUVRI in the E.U. and to timely complete the post-marketing study of PIXUVRI aimed at confirming the clinical benefit previously observed in PIXUVRI. A failure of such study could result in a cessation of commercialization of PIXUVRI in the E.U. In addition, the successful commercialization of PIXUVRI in the E.U. depends heavily on our ability to obtain and maintain favorable reimbursement rates for users of PIXUVRI, as well as on various additional factors, including, without limitation, our ability to: • increase and maintain demand for and sales of PIXUVRI in Europe and obtain greater acceptance of PIXUVRI by physicians and patients; • establish and maintain agreements with wholesalers and distributors on reasonable terms; • maintain, and enter into additional, commercial manufacturing arrangements with third-parties, cost-effectively manufacture necessary quantities and build distribution, managerial and other capabilities; and • further develop and maintain a commercial organization to market PIXUVRI. If we are unable to successfully commercialize PIXUVRI in Europe as planned, our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects could be harmed. We have in the past received and may in the future receive audit reports with an explanatory paragraph on our consolidated financial statements. Our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph in its reports on our consolidated financial statements for each of the years ended December 31, 2007 through December 31, 2011 regarding their substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Although our independent registered public accounting firm removed this going concern explanatory paragraph in its report on our 26 Table of Contents December 31, 2012 consolidated financial statements, we expect to continue to need to raise additional financing to develop our business and satisfy obligations as they become due. The inclusion of a going concern explanatory paragraph in future years may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock and make it more difficult, time consuming or expensive to obtain necessary financing, and we cannot guarantee that we will not receive such an explanatory paragraph in the future. We may not be able to maintain our listings on The NASDAQ Capital Market and the MTA in Italy, or trading on these exchanges may otherwise be halted or suspended, which may make it more difficult for investors to sell shares of our common stock. Maintaining the listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market requires that we comply with certain listing requirements. We have in the past and may in the future fail to continue to meet one or more listing requirements. For example, in June 2012, we received a notification from The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, or NASDAQ, indicating non-compliance with the requirement to maintain a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share and that we would be delisted if we did not timely regain compliance. We regained compliance through a reverse stock split in September 2012, but we could fail to meet the continued listing requirements as a result of a decrease in our stock price or otherwise. If our common stock ceases to be listed for trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market for any reason, it may harm our stock price, increase the volatility of our stock price, decrease the level of trading activity and make it more difficult for investors to buy or sell shares of our common stock. Our failure to maintain a listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market may constitute an event of default under our senior secured term loan and any future indebtedness, which would accelerate the maturity date of such debt or trigger other obligations. In addition, certain institutional investors that are not permitted to own securities of non-listed companies may be required to sell their shares adversely affecting the trading price of our common stock. If we are not listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market or if our public float falls below $75 million, we will be limited in our ability to file new shelf registration statements on SEC Form S-3 and/or to fully use one or more registration statements on SEC Form S-3. We have relied significantly on shelf registration statements on SEC Form S-3 for most of our financings in recent years, so any such limitations may harm our ability to raise the capital we need. Delisting from The NASDAQ Capital Market could also affect our ability to maintain our listing or trading on the MTA. Trading in our common stock has been halted or suspended on both The NASDAQ Capital Market and MTA in the past and may also be halted or suspended in the future due to market or trading conditions at the discretion of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, the Commissione Nazionale per le Società e la Borsa, or CONSOB (which is the public authority responsible for regulating the Italian securities markets), or the Borsa Italiana (which ensures the development of the managed markets in Italy). Any halt or suspension in the trading in our common stock may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. We may be unable to obtain a quorum for meetings of our shareholders or obtain necessary shareholder approvals and therefore be unable to take certain corporate actions. Our articles of incorporation require that a quorum, generally consisting of one-third of the outstanding shares of voting stock, be represented in person, by telephone or by proxy in order to transact business at a meeting of our shareholders. In addition, amendments to our articles of incorporation, such as an amendment to increase our authorized capital stock, generally require the approval of a majority of our outstanding shares. Failure to meet a quorum or obtain shareholder approval can prevent us from raising capital through equity financing or otherwise taking certain actions that may be in the best interest of the company and shareholders. A substantial majority of our common shares are held by Italian institutions and, under Italian laws and regulations, it is difficult to communicate with the beneficial holders of those shares to obtain votes. In 2006, we were unable to obtain a quorum at two scheduled annual meetings. Following that failure to obtain a quorum, we contacted certain depository banks in Italy where significant numbers of shares of our common stock were held and asked them to cooperate by making a book-entry transfer of their share positions at Monte Titoli to their U.S. 27 Table of Contents correspondent bank, who would then transfer the shares to an account of the Italian bank at a U.S. broker-dealer that is an affiliate of that bank. Certain of the banks contacted agreed to make the share transfer pursuant to these arrangements as of the record date of the meeting, subject to the relevant beneficial owner being given notice before such record date and taking no action to direct the voting of such shares. Obtaining a quorum and necessary shareholder approvals at shareholder meetings will depend in part upon the willingness of the Italian depository banks to continue participating in the custody transfer arrangements, and we cannot be assured that those banks that have participated in the past will continue to participate in custody transfer arrangements in the future. As a result of the foregoing, we may be unable to obtain a quorum or shareholder approval of proposals, when needed, at annual or special meetings of shareholders. Even if we are able to obtain a quorum at our shareholder meetings, we may not obtain enough votes to approve matters to be resolved upon at those meetings. For example, a proposal to approve a reverse stock split failed to receive sufficient votes to pass at the March 2009 shareholders meeting. Any failure to obtain a quorum or the requisite vote on a proposal in question could harm us. We could fail in financing efforts if we fail to receive shareholder approval when needed. We are required under the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules to obtain shareholder approval for any issuance of additional equity securities that would comprise more than 20 percent of the total shares of our common stock outstanding before the issuance of such securities sold at a discount to the greater of book or market value in an offering that is not deemed to be a “public offering” by the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules or NASDAQ as well as under certain other circumstances. We have in the past and may in the future issue additional equity securities that would comprise more than 20 percent of the total shares of our common stock outstanding in order to fund our operations. However, we might not be successful in obtaining the required shareholder approval for any future issuance that requires shareholder approval pursuant to the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, particularly in light of the difficulties we have experienced in obtaining a quorum and holding shareholder meetings discussed above. If we are unable to obtain financing due to shareholder approval difficulties, such failure may harm our ability to continue operations. We are subject to limitations on our ability to issue additional shares of our common stock or undertake other business initiatives due to Italian regulatory requirements. Compliance with Italian regulatory requirements may delay additional issuances of our common stock or other business initiatives. Under Italian law, we must publish a registration document, securities note and summary that have to be approved by CONSOB prior to issuing common stock that exceeds, in any twelve-month period, 10 percent of the number of shares of our common stock outstanding at the beginning of that period, subject to certain exceptions. If we are unable to obtain and maintain a registration document, securities note or summary to cover general financing efforts under Italian law, we may be required to raise money using alternative forms of securities. For example, we have in the past issued convertible preferred stock and may in the future issue convertible securities because the common stock resulting from the conversion of such securities, subject to current provisions of European Directive No. 71/2003 and, according to the current interpretations of the Committee of European Securities Regulators, is not subject to the 10 percent limitation imposed by E.U. and Italian law. However, any changes to Italian regulatory requirements, exemptions or interpretations may increase compliance costs or limit our ability to issue securities. We are subject to Italian regulatory requirements, which could result in administrative and other challenges and additional expenses. Because our common stock is traded on the MTA, we are required to also comply with the rules and regulations of CONSOB and the Borsa Italiana, which regulate companies listed on Italy’s public markets. Compliance with these regulations and responding to periodic information requests from Borsa Italiana and CONSOB requires us to devote additional time and resources to regulatory compliance matters and to incur 28 Table of Contents additional expenses of engaging additional outside counsel, accountants and other professional advisors. Actual or alleged failure to comply with Italian regulators can also subject us to regulatory investigations. For more information on current investigations, see the regulatory investigations that are discussed in more detail in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” We will incur a variety of costs for and may never realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions. We evaluate and acquire assets and technologies from time to time. If appropriate opportunities become available, we may attempt to acquire other businesses and assets that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. The process of negotiating an acquisition and integrating an acquired business and assets may result in operating difficulties and expenditures. In addition, our acquisitions may require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business, whether or not any such transaction is ever consummated. Moreover, we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. Any acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to intangible assets, which could harm our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects. We may owe additional amounts for value added taxes related to our operations in Europe. Our European operations are subject to value added tax, or VAT, which is usually applied to all goods and services purchased and sold throughout Europe. The VAT receivable was $5.7 million and $8.1 million as of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively. On April 14, 2009, December 21, 2009 and June 25, 2010, the Italian Tax Authority, or the ITA, issued notices of assessment to Cell Therapeutics Inc. – Sede Secondaria, or CTI (Europe), based on the ITA’s audit of CTI (Europe)’s VAT returns for the years 2003, 2005, 2006 and 2007. The ITA audits concluded that CTI (Europe) did not collect and remit VAT on certain invoices issued to non-Italian clients for services performed by CTI (Europe). The assessments, including interest and penalties, for the years 2003, 2005, 2006 and 2007 are €0.5 million, €5.5 million, €2.5 million and €0.8 million. While we are defending ourselves against the assessments both on procedural grounds and on the merits of the case, there can be no assurances that we will be successful in such defense. Further information pertaining to these cases can be found in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” and is incorporated by reference herein. If the final decision of the Supreme Court is unfavorable to us, or if, in the interim, the ITA were to make a demand for payment and we were to be unsuccessful in suspending collection efforts, we may be requested to pay to the ITA an amount up to €9.4 million (or approximately $12.9 million converted using the currency exchange rate as of December 31, 2013) plus collection fees, notification expenses and additional interest for the period lapsed between the date in which the assessments were issued and the date of effective payment. Even if our products receive regulatory approval, we will be subject to ongoing obligations and continued regulatory review by the FDA, the EMA and other foreign regulatory agencies, as applicable, and may be subject to additional post-marketing obligations, all of which may result in significant expense and limit commercialization of our products, including PIXUVRI. Even if our other products receive regulatory approvals, we will be subject to numerous regulations and statutes regulating the manner of selling and obtaining reimbursement for those products. Regulatory approvals that we receive for our products may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or require potentially costly post-marketing follow-up studies. Even if a product receives regulatory approval, we may not be able to maintain compliance with regulatory requirements, which could result in the product being withdrawn from the market, product seizures, injunctions, regulatory restrictions on our business and sales activities, monetary penalties or criminal prosecution. In addition, PIXUVRI is subject to extensive regulatory requirements regarding its labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record-keeping. If the FDA, the EMA or other foreign regulatory agency approves any of our other products, they will also be subject to similar extensive regulatory requirements. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with PIXUVRI or any of our other products, including adverse events of 29 Table of Contents unanticipated severity or frequency, or the discovery that adverse effects or unknown toxicities observed in preclinical research or clinical trials that were believed to be minor actually constitute more serious problems, may result in restrictions on the marketing of the product or withdrawal of the drug from the market. If we are not granted full approval of PIXUVRI in the E.U. or we are unable to renew our conditional marketing authorization for PIXUVRI in the E.U., our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects would be harmed. We cannot predict the outcome of our clinical trial for PIXUVRI or whether our clinical trial for PIXUVRI will serve as either a post-marketing commitment trial or as a pivotal trial. In March 2011, we initiated a randomized pivotal trial of PIXUVRI for the treatment of relapsed or refractory aggressive B-cell NHL. This clinical trial, referred to as PIX-R, or PIX306, compares a combination of PIXUVRI plus rituximab to a combination of gemcitabine plus rituximab in patients who have relapsed after one to three prior regimens for aggressive B-cell NHL and who are not eligible for autologous stem cell transplant. We cannot predict the outcome of PIX306 or whether PIX306 will serve as either a post-marketing commitment trial or as a pivotal trial. We may not be able to demonstrate the clinical benefit of PIXUVRI in patients who had previously received rituximab or that PIXUVRI is more clinically effective than treatments currently used in clinical practice. We may not be able to complete the PIX306 clinical trial by June 2015 or at all. If we are unable to submit the clinical trial data from PIX306 by June 2015, it may result in the withdrawal of the conditional marketing authorization by the E.U. We may also need to take additional steps to obtain regulatory approval of PIXUVRI. The expense to design and conduct clinical trials are substantial and any additional clinical trials or actions we may need to pursue to obtain approval of PIXUVRI may negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects. Failure to meet clinical trial deadlines may also result in the withdrawal of our conditional marketing authorization for PIXUVRI. We may be subject to fines, penalties, injunctions and other sanctions if we are deemed to be promoting the use of our products for non-FDA-approved, or off-label, uses. Our business and future growth depend on the development, use and ultimate sale of products that are subject to FDA, EMA and or other regulatory agencies regulation, clearance and approval. Under the U.S. Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and other laws, we are prohibited from promoting our products for off-label uses. This means that in the U.S., we may not make claims about the safety or effectiveness of our products and may not proactively discuss or provide information on the use of our products, except as allowed by the FDA. Government investigations concerning the promotion of off-label uses and related issues are typically expensive, disruptive and burdensome, generate negative publicity and may result in fines or payments of settlement awards. For example, in April 2007, we paid a civil penalty of $10.6 million and entered into a settlement agreement with the USAO for the Western District of Washington arising out of their investigation into certain of our prior marketing practices relating to TRISENOX, which was divested to Cephalon Inc. in July 2005. As part of that settlement agreement and in connection with the acquisition of Zevalin, we also entered into a corporate integrity agreement with the OIG-HHS, which required us to establish a compliance committee and compliance program and adopt a formal code of conduct. If our promotional activities are found to be in violation of applicable law or if we agree to a settlement in connection with an enforcement action, we would likely face significant fines and penalties and would likely be required to substantially change our sales, promotion, grant and educational activities. A failure to comply with laws and regulations that govern our cross-border conduct, as well as with healthcare fraud and abuse and false claims laws and regulations, could result in substantial penalties and prosecution. We are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the U.S., which exposes us to complex foreign and U.S. regulations. For example, we are subject to regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt 30 Table of Contents Practices Act, or FCPA, and other anti-corruption laws that generally prohibit U.S. companies and their intermediaries from offering, promising, authorizing or making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. The SEC and U.S. Department of Justice have increased their enforcement activities with respect to the FCPA. Internal control policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs that we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in prohibiting our employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing our policies and the law. In addition, we are subject to various state and federal fraud and abuse laws, including, without limitation, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and federal False Claims Act. There are similar laws in other countries. These laws may impact, among other things, the sales, marketing and education programs for our drugs. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willingly soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program. The federal False Claims Act prohibits persons from knowingly filing, or causing to be filed, a false claim to, or the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment from the federal government. Suits filed under the False Claims Act can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government and such individuals, commonly known as “whistleblowers,” may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. Many states have also adopted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and False Claims Act. We are unable to predict whether we could be subject to actions under any of the foregoing or similar laws and regulations, or the impact of such actions. If we were to be found to be in violation of these laws or regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government healthcare reimbursement programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are dependent on third-parties for the manufacture, testing and distribution of products and product candidates. Any failure or delay in manufacturing, or in obtaining a qualified vendor when needed, could delay the clinical development and commercialization of the applicable product(s) and product candidate(s) and harm our business. We do not currently have internal analytical laboratory or manufacturing facilities to allow the testing or production and distribution of drug products in compliance with cGMPs, and we instead utilize third party vendors. In particular, we are dependent on a single vendor for the manufacturing of each of PIXUVRI, pacritinib and tosedostat. With respect to Opaxio, we are presently relying on stored inventory of the drug, as we do not presently have a manufacturing agreement in place for Opaxio. Because we do not have a manufacturing infrastructure, we are dependent upon our vendors to supply us in a timely manner with products manufactured in compliance with cGMPs or similar manufacturing standards imposed by the U.S. and/or applicable foreign regulatory authorities, including the FDA and EMA. Any of such regulatory authorities may take action against a contract manufacturer who violates cGMPs. Failure of our manufacturers to comply with FDA, EMA or other applicable regulations may cause us to curtail or stop the manufacture of such products until we obtain regulatory compliance. With respect to commercial supply arrangements, we currently have such an arrangement in place for PIXUVRI, but we do not presently have one in place for pacritinib (or for our other product candidates). In particular, as we have continued to advance the development of pacritinib and position such product for potential commercialization, procuring a qualified commercial supplier for pacritinib has become an important objective. Any failure or delay in the manufacturing and testing of a product or product candidate in compliance with applicable regulations, or in obtaining and maintaining qualified vendors (including qualified commercial suppliers) to provide the requisite services when needed, could delay the clinical development and commercialization of the applicable product or product candidate and harm our business. 31 Table of Contents Our financial condition may be harmed if third parties default in the performance of contractual obligations. Our business is dependent on the performance by third parties of their responsibilities under contractual relationships. In September 2012, our wholly-owned subsidiary CTI Life Sciences Limited, or CTILS, entered into a Logistics Agreement with Movianto Nederland BV, or Movianto, pursuant to which Movianto agreed to provide certain warehousing, transportation, distribution, order processing and cash collection services and all related activities to CTILS and its affiliates for PIXUVRI in certain agreed territories in Europe. Movianto provides a variety of services related to our sales of PIXUVRI, including receipt, unloading and checking, warehousing and inventory control; customer order management; distribution and transportation; lot number and expiry date control; returned goods processing; return and recall; product quality assurance; and reporting, credit management and debt collection. If Movianto, or other third parties we may enter into contracts with default on the performance of their contractual obligations, we could suffer significant financial losses and operational problems, which could in turn adversely affect our financial performance, cash flows or operating results and may jeopardize our ability to maintain our operations. We face direct and intense competition from our competitors in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, and we may not compete successfully against them. Competition in the oncology market is intense and is accentuated by the rapid pace of technological and product development. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter the market. Our competitors in the U.S. and elsewhere are numerous and include, among others, major multinational pharmaceutical companies, specialized biotechnology companies and universities and other research institutions. Specifically: • In Europe, PIXUVRI faces competition from existing treatments for adults with multiply relapsed or refractory aggressive B-cell NHL. For example, patients are currently being treated with bendamustine, oxaliplatin and gemcitabine, although these particular agents do not have regulatory approval in Europe for the foregoing indication. If we were to pursue bringing PIXUVRI to market in the U.S. (which is not currently part of our near-term plan), PIXUVRI would face similar competition. In addition, PIXUVRI may face competition in the E.U. (and, if applicable in the future, the U.S.) if new anti-cancer drugs with reduced toxicity and/or increased efficacy are developed and marketed in the E.U. and/or the U.S. • If we are successful in bringing pacritinib to market, pacritinib will face competition from ruxolitinib (Jakafi®) and new drugs targeting similar diseases that may be developed and marketed. • If we are successful in bringing Opaxio to market, we will face direct competition from oncology-focused multinational corporations. Opaxio will compete with other taxanes. Many oncology-focused multinational corporations currently market or are developing taxanes, epothilones, and other cytotoxic agents, which inhibit cancer cells by a mechanism similar to taxanes, or similar products. Such corporations include, among others, Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., which market paclitaxel and generic forms of paclitaxel; Sanofi-Aventis U.S. LLC, which markets docetaxel; Genentech, Inc., Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. and Astellas Pharma US, Inc., which market Tarceva™; Genentech, Inc. and Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., which market Avastin™; Eli Lilly & Company, which markets Alimta®; and Celgene Corporation, which markets Abraxane™. In addition, other companies such as Telik, Inc. are also developing products, which could compete with Opaxio. • If we are successful in bringing tosedostat to market, tosedostat will face competition from currently marketed products, such as cytarabine, Dacogen®, Vidaza®, Clolar®, Revlimid®, Thalomid® and new anti-cancer drugs that may be developed and marketed. Many of our competitors, particularly the multinational pharmaceutical companies, either alone or together with their collaborators, have substantially greater financial and technical resources and substantially larger development and marketing teams than us, as well as significantly greater experience than we do in developing, manufacturing and marketing products. As a result, products of our competitors might come to market sooner or 32 Table of Contents might prove to be more effective, less expensive, have fewer side effects or be easier to administer than ours. In any such case, sales of our current or future products would likely suffer and we might never recoup the significant investments we are making to develop these product candidates. The pharmaceutical business is subject to increasing government price controls and other restrictions on pricing, reimbursement, and access to drugs, which could affect our future revenues and profitability if new restrictive legislation is adopted. Legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change in ways adverse to us before or after any of our proposed products are approved for marketing. In the U.S., we are subject to substantial pricing, reimbursement and access pressures from state Medicaid programs, private insurance programs and pharmacy benefit managers, and implementation of U.S. health care reform legislation is increasing these pricing pressures. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (HR 3590) instituted comprehensive health care reform in 2010 and includes provisions that, among other things, reduce and/or limit Medicare reimbursement, require all individuals to have health insurance (with limited exceptions) and impose new and/or increased taxes. These measures could significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and products, resulting in lower prices and reducing demand for our products. In addition, many state legislative proposals could further negatively affect our pricing and reimbursement for, or access to, our products. Globally, governments are becoming increasingly aggressive in imposing health care cost-containment measures such as: • adopting more restrictive price controls; • limiting and reducing both coverage and the amount of reimbursement for new therapeutic products; • denying or limiting coverage for products that are approved by the FDA or the EMA, but are considered experimental or investigational by third-party payors; • restricting access to human pharmaceuticals based on the payers’ assessments of comparative effectiveness and value; • refusing in some cases to provide coverage when an approved product is used for disease indications in a way that has not received FDA or EMA marketing approval; and • denying coverage altogether. If adequate third-party or government coverage is not available, market acceptance of our products may be limited and we may not be able to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in research and product development or achieve anticipated revenues. If any of our license agreements for intellectual property underlying our compounds are terminated, we may lose the right to develop or market that product. We have acquired or licensed intellectual property from third parties, including patent applications and patents relating to intellectual property for PIXUVRI, pacritinib and tosedostat. We have also licensed the intellectual property for our drug delivery technology relating to Opaxio, which uses polymers that are linked to drugs known as polymer-drug conjugates. Some of our product development programs depend on our ability to maintain rights under these licenses. Each licensor has the power to terminate its agreement with us if we fail to meet our obligations under these licenses. We may not be able to meet our obligations under these licenses. If we default under any license agreement, we may lose our right to market and sell any products based on the licensed technology and may be forced to cease operations, liquidate our assets and possibly seek bankruptcy protection. Bankruptcy may result in the termination of agreements pursuant to which we license certain intellectual property rights. 33 Table of Contents If we are unable to enter into new in-licensing arrangements, our future product portfolio and potential profitability could be harmed. One component of our business strategy is in-licensing drug compounds developed by other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies or academic research laboratories. Our product candidates tosedostat and Opaxio, which are in clinical and pre-clinical development, and PIXUVRI, which is in a post-approval commitment study, have been in-licensed or acquired from third-parties. Competition for new promising compounds and commercial products can be intense. If we are not able to identify future in-licensing opportunities and enter into future licensing arrangements on acceptable terms, our future product portfolio and potential profitability could be harmed. We hold rights under numerous patents that we have acquired or licensed or that protect inventions originating from our research and development, and the expiration of any one or more of these patents may allow our competitors to copy the inventions that are currently protected. We dedicate significant resources to protecting our intellectual property, which is important to our business. We have filed numerous patent applications in the U.S. and various other countries seeking protection of inventions originating from our research and development, and we have also obtained rights to various patents and patent applications under licenses with third parties and through acquisitions. Patents have been issued on many of these applications. We have pending patent applications or issued patents in the U.S. and foreign countries directed to PIXUVRI, pacritinib, tosedostat, Opaxio and other product candidates. However, the lives of these patents are limited. Patents for the individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of the patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The Opaxio-directed patents will expire on various dates ranging from 2017 through 2018. The pacritinib-directed patents will expire from 2026 through 2029. The PIXUVRI-directed U.S. patents will expire in 2014. The tosedostat-directed U.S. patents will expire in 2017. The brostallicin-directed U.S. patents will expire on various dates ranging between 2017 through 2021. The PIXUVRI-directed patents currently in force in Europe will expire from 2015 through 2023. Some of these European patents are subject to Supplementary Protection Certificates such that the extended patents will expire from 2020 to 2027. Although certain PIXUVRI-directed patents may be subject to possible patent-term extensions that could provide extensions through 2019 in the U.S. and through 2027 in some additional countries in Europe, there can be no guarantee of extensions of PIXUVRI-directed or other patents in other countries. The expiration of these patents may allow our competitors to copy the inventions that are currently protected and better compete with us. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, our competitive position could be harmed. Development and protection of our intellectual property are critical to our business. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to practice our technologies. Our success depends in part on our ability to: • obtain and maintain patent protection for our products or processes both in the U.S. and other countries; • protect trade secrets; and • prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. The patent position of biopharmaceutical firms generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has not established a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims that it will allow in biotechnology patents. If it allows broad claims, the number and cost of patent interference proceedings in the U.S. and the risk of infringement litigation may increase. If it allows narrow claims, the risk of infringement may decrease, but the value of our rights under our patents, licenses and patent applications may also decrease. Patent applications in which we have rights may never issue as patents, and the claims of any issued patents may not afford meaningful protection for our technologies or products. In 34 Table of Contents addition, patents issued to us or our licensors may be challenged and subsequently narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. Litigation, interference proceedings or other governmental proceedings that we may become involved in with respect to our proprietary technologies or the proprietary technology of others could result in substantial cost to us. We also rely upon trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation to remain competitive. Third parties may independently develop such know-how or otherwise obtain access to our technology. While we require our employees, consultants and corporate partners with access to proprietary information to enter into confidentiality agreements, these agreements may not be honored. Patent litigation is widespread in the biotechnology industry, and any patent litigation could harm our business. Costly litigation might be necessary to protect a patent position or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights, and we may not have the required resources to pursue any such litigation or to protect our patent rights. Any adverse outcome in litigation with respect to the infringement or validity of any patents owned by third parties could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease using a product or technology. With respect to our in-licensed patents, if we attempt to initiate a patent infringement suit against an alleged infringer, it is possible that our applicable licensor will not participate in or assist us with the suit and as a result we may not be able to effectively enforce the applicable patents against the alleged infringers. We may be unable to obtain or protect our intellectual property rights and we may be liable for infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to engage in costly litigation and, if unsuccessful, could cause us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from selling our products. At times, we may monitor patent filings for patents that might be relevant to some of our products and product candidates in an effort to guide the design and development of our products to avoid infringement, but may not have conducted an exhaustive search. We may not be able to successfully challenge the validity of third-party patents and could be required to pay substantial damages, possibly including treble damages, for past infringement and attorneys’ fees if it is ultimately determined that our products infringe such patents. Further, we may be prohibited from selling our products before we obtain a license, which, if available at all, may require us to pay substantial royalties. Moreover, third parties may challenge the patents that have been issued or licensed to us. We do not believe that PIXUVRI, pacritinib or any of the other compounds we are currently developing infringe upon the rights of any third parties nor are they infringed upon by third parties; however, there can be no assurance that our technology will not be found in the future to infringe upon the rights of others or be infringed upon by others. In such a case, others may assert infringement claims against us, and should we be found to infringe upon their patents, or otherwise impermissibly utilize their intellectual property, we might be forced to pay damages, potentially including treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed on such parties’ patent rights. In addition to any damages we might have to pay, we may be required to obtain licenses from the holders of this intellectual property, enter into royalty agreements or redesign our drug candidates so as not to utilize this intellectual property, each of which may prove to be uneconomical or otherwise impossible. Conversely, we may not always be able to successfully pursue our claims against others that infringe upon our technology and the technology exclusively licensed from any third parties. Thus, the proprietary nature of our technology or technology licensed by us may not provide adequate protection against competitors. Even if infringement claims against us are without merit, or if we challenge the validity of issued patents, lawsuits take significant time, may, even if resolved in our favor, be expensive and divert management attention from other business concerns. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations. 35 Table of Contents We are currently and may in the future be subject to litigation proceedings that could harm our financial condition and operating results. We may be subject to legal claims or regulatory matters involving shareholder, consumer, regulatory and other issues. As described in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” we are currently engaged in a number of litigation matters. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. Adverse outcomes in some or all of such pending cases may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us. If an unfavorable ruling were to occur in any of the legal proceedings we are or may be subject to, our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects could be harmed. We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits from time to time, some of which arise in the ordinary course of our business. The ultimate outcome of litigation and other claims is subject to inherent uncertainties, and our view of these matters may change in the future. It is possible that our financial condition and operating results could be harmed in any period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. For example, as described in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” CONSOB has not yet notified us of a resolution with respect to its claim that our disclosure related to the contents of the opinion expressed by Stonefield Josephson, Inc., an independent public accounting firm, with respect to our 2008 financial statements was late. However, based on our assessment, we believe the likelihood is probable that CONSOB will impose a pecuniary administrative sanction for such asserted violation. Securities class action and shareholder derivative lawsuits are often instituted against issuers, and we have been subjected to such actions. For example, on May 31, 2013, we settled a shareholder derivative lawsuit pursuant to which we agreed to implement certain corporate governance measures and were required to pay $1.4 million in plaintiffs’ attorneys’ fees and reimbursement of expenses, all of which amount was covered by our insurance. We cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of pending litigation. Furthermore, we may have to incur substantial expenses in connection with such lawsuits and management’s attention and resources could be diverted from operating our business as we respond to the litigation. Our insurance is subject to high deductibles and there is no guarantee that the insurance will cover any specific claim that we currently face or may face in the future, or that it will be adequate to cover all potential liabilities and damages. In the event of an adverse outcome under any currently pending or future lawsuit, our business could be materially harmed. Our net operating losses may not be available to reduce future income tax liability. We have substantial tax loss carryforwards for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but our ability to use such carryforwards to offset future income or tax liability is limited under section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, as a result of prior changes in the stock ownership of the company. Moreover, future changes in the ownership of our stock, including those resulting from issuance of shares of our common stock upon exercise of outstanding warrants, may further limit our ability to use our net operating losses. Our operations in our European branches and subsidiaries make us subject to increased risk regarding currency exchange rate fluctuations. We are exposed to risks associated with the translation of euro-denominated financial results and accounts into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The carrying value of the assets and liabilities, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses, in our European branches and subsidiaries will be affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to the euro. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to the euro might have an adverse effect on our reported operating results and financial condition. 36 Table of Contents We may be unable to obtain the raw materials necessary to produce a particular product or product candidate. We may not be able to purchase the materials necessary to produce a particular product or product candidate in adequate volume and quality. For example, paclitaxel, a material used to produce Opaxio, is derived from certain varieties of yew trees and the supply of paclitaxel is controlled by a limited number of companies. We purchase paclitaxel and polyglutamic acid (another material used to produce Opaxio) from single sources. If paclitaxel or polyglutamic acid, or any other raw material required to produce a product or product candidate, is insufficient in quantity or quality, if a supplier fails to deliver in a timely fashion or at all or if these relationships terminate, we may not be able to qualify and obtain a sufficient supply from alternate sources on acceptable terms, or at all. Because there is a risk of product liability associated with our products, we face potential difficulties in obtaining insurance, and if product liability lawsuits were to be successfully brought against us, our business may be harmed. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of human pharmaceutical products. In particular, as a result of the commercialization of PIXUVRI, our risk with respect to potential product liability has increased. If our insurance covering a product or product candidate is not maintained on acceptable terms or at all, we might not have adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Our inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or limit the commercialization of any products we develop. A successful product liability claim could also exceed our insurance coverage and could harm our financial condition and operating results. Since we use hazardous materials in our business, we may be subject to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. We are subject to international, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such materials and certain waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by the regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated completely. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability not covered by insurance could exceed our resources. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. We depend on sophisticated information technology systems to operate our business and a cyber-attack or other breach of these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on information technology systems to process, transmit and store electronic information in our day-to-day operations. The size and complexity of our information technology systems makes them vulnerable to a cyber-attack, malicious intrusion, breakdown, destruction, loss of data privacy or other significant disruption. Any such successful attacks could result in the theft of intellectual property or other misappropriation of assets, or otherwise compromise our confidential or proprietary information and disrupt our operations. Cyber-attacks are becoming more sophisticated and frequent. We have invested in our systems and the protection of our data to reduce the risk of an intrusion or interruption, and we monitor our systems on an ongoing basis for any current or potential threats. There can be no assurance that these measures and efforts will prevent future interruptions or breakdowns. If we fail to maintain or protect our information technology systems and data integrity effectively or fail to anticipate, plan for or manage significant disruptions to these systems, we could have difficulty preventing, detecting and controlling fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians and other health care professionals, have regulatory sanctions or penalties imposed, have increases in operating expenses, incur 37 Table of Contents expenses or lose revenues as a result of a data privacy breach or theft of intellectual property or suffer other adverse consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Risks Related To the Securities Markets The market price of shares of our common stock is extremely volatile, which may affect our ability to raise capital in the future and may subject the value of your investment in our securities to sudden decreases. The market price for securities of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including ours, historically has been highly volatile, and the market from time to time has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. For example, during the 12-month period ended February 24, 2014, our stock price has ranged from a low of $0.97 to a high of $4.25. Fluctuations in the trading price or liquidity of our common stock may harm the value of your investment in our common stock. Factors that may have a significant impact on the market price and marketability of our securities include: • announcements by us or others of results of clinical trials and regulatory actions; • announcements by us or others of serious adverse events that have occurred during administration of our products to patients; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial therapeutic products by us, our collaborative partners or our present or potential competitors; • our issuance of debt, equity or other securities, which we need to pursue to generate additional funds to cover our operating expenses; • our quarterly operating results; • developments or disputes concerning patent or other proprietary rights; • developments in relationships with collaborative partners; • acquisitions or divestitures; • our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of pacritinib; • litigation and government proceedings; • adverse legislation, including changes in governmental regulation; • third-party reimbursement policies; • changes in securities analysts’ recommendations; • short selling; • changes in health care policies and practices; • a failure to achieve previously announced goals and objectives as or when projected; • halting or suspension of trading in our common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market by NASDAQ or on the MTA by CONSOB, or the Borsa Italiana; and • general economic and market conditions. Shares of common stock are equity securities and are subordinate to any preferred stock we may issue and to any existing or future indebtedness. Shares of our common stock rank junior to any shares of our preferred stock that we may issue in the future and to our existing indebtedness, including our senior secured term loan agreement, or future indebtedness we 38 Table of Contents may incur and to all creditor claims and other non-equity claims against us and our assets available to satisfy claims on us, including claims in a bankruptcy or similar proceeding. Our senior secured term loan agreement restricts, and any future indebtedness and preferred stock may restrict, payment of dividends on our common stock. Additionally, unlike indebtedness, where principal and interest customarily are payable on specified due dates, in the case of our common stock, dividends are payable only when and if declared by our Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of our Board of Directors, and as a corporation, we are restricted to making dividend payments and redemption payments out of legally available assets. We have never paid a dividend on our common stock and have no current intention to pay dividends in the future. Furthermore, our common stock places no restrictions on our business or operations or on our ability to incur indebtedness or engage in any transactions, subject only to the voting rights available to shareholders generally. Future sales or other dilution of our equity may harm the market price of shares of our common stock. We expect to issue additional equity securities to fund our operating expenses as well as for other purposes. The market price of our shares of common stock or preferred stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market, or the perception that such sales could occur in the future. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, in our shareholder rights plan, or rights plan, and under Washington law could make removal of incumbent management or an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our shareholders, more difficult. Provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of deterring or delaying attempts by our shareholders to remove or replace management, to commence proxy contests or to effect changes in control. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors so that only approximately one-third of our Board of Directors is elected each year; • elimination of cumulative voting in the election of directors; • procedures for advance notification of shareholder nominations and proposals; • the ability of our Board of Directors to amend our amended and restated bylaws without shareholder approval; and • the ability of our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock without shareholder approval upon the terms and conditions and with the rights, privileges and preferences as the Board of Directors may determine. Pursuant to our rights plan, an acquisition of 20 percent or more of our common stock by a person or group, subject to certain exceptions, could result in the exercisability of the preferred stock purchase right accompanying each share of our common stock (except those held by a 20 percent shareholder, which become null and void), thereby entitling the holder to receive upon exercise, in lieu of a number of units of preferred stock, that number of shares of our common stock having a market value of two times the exercise price of the right. The existence of our rights plan could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us and may inhibit a change in control that some, or a majority, of our shareholders might believe to be in their best interest or that could give our shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market prices for their shares. In addition, as a Washington corporation, we are subject to Washington’s anti-takeover statute, which imposes restrictions on some transactions between a corporation and certain significant shareholders. These provisions, alone or together, could have the effect of deterring or delaying changes in incumbent management, proxy contests or changes in control. 39 Table of Contents Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 