Item 1a. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The occurrence of any of the following risks described below and elsewhere in this document, including the risk that our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects and the trading price of our securities. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we currently deem immaterial may also harm our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects and the trading price of our securities. Factors Affecting Our Operating Results and Financial Condition If we are unable to generate significant product revenues from the sale of PIXUVRI, we may never become profitable. We anticipate that, for at least the next several years, our ability to generate revenues and become profitable will depend in large part on the commercial success of our only marketed product candidate, PIXUVRI. One of the priorities of our business strategy is to successfully execute the commercial launch of PIXUVRI in Europe. PIXUVRI is not approved for marketing in the United States. In September 2012, we began making PIXUVRI available for commercial sale in the E.U. PIXUVRI is currently available in eight countries: Austria, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom. We plan to extend the availability of PIXUVRI to France, Italy and Spain, as well as other European countries, in 2013; however, we may not be able to successfully commercialize PIXUVRI in Europe as planned. Our ability to successfully commercialize PIXUVRI will depend on several factors, including, without limitation, our ability to: • successfully increase and maintain market demand for, and sales of, PIXUVRI in Europe through our sales and marketing efforts and by expanding our sales force; • obtain greater acceptance of PIXUVRI by physicians and patients; • obtain favorable reimbursement rates for PIXUVRI in Europe; • maintain compliance with regulatory requirements; • obtain a renewal annually of our conditional marketing authorization for PIXUVRI in the E.U. and complete a post-marketing study of PIXUVRI aimed at confirming the clinical benefit previously observed in PIXUVRI; • establish and maintain agreements with wholesalers and distributors on commercially reasonable terms; • maintain commercial manufacturing arrangements with third-party manufacturers as necessary to meet commercial demand for PIXUVRI, continue to manufacture commercial quantities at acceptable cost levels and build our distribution, managerial and other non-technical capabilities; • successfully maintain intellectual property protection for PIXUVRI; 20 Table of Contents • compete with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to recruit, hire, train and retain sales and marketing personnel; and • successfully develop our own commercial organization to market PIXUVRI. We currently have limited resources and the continued development of a commercial organization to market PIXUVRI will be expensive and time-consuming. Our subsidiary CTI Life Sciences Limited, or CTILS, has entered into a services agreement with Quintiles Commercial Europe Limited, or Quintiles, whereby CTILS has engaged Quintiles to provide a variety of services, which may include, market access services, promotion and detailing services, strategic planning, project management, pricing and reimbursement support, pharmacovigilance, medical information and other regulatory services and consultancy advice to CTILS and affiliates in relation to the commercialization of PIXUVRI in Europe. Because we rely on third parties for the manufacture, distribution and marketing and sale of PIXUVRI, we may have limited control over the efforts of these third parties and we may receive less revenue than if we commercialized these products ourselves. In the event we are unable to successfully develop our own commercial organization or collaborate with third-party organizations, we may not be able to successfully commercialize or generate meaningful sales from PIXUVRI or other product candidates. As a result, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to grow or sustain our business and we may never become profitable, and our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects and the trading price of our securities could be harmed. We need to continue to raise additional financing to operate, but additional funds may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. We have substantial operating expenses associated with the development of our product candidates. Our available cash and cash equivalents were $50.4 million as of December 31, 2012. At our currently planned spending rate, we believe that our financial resources, in addition to the expected receipts from European PIXUVRI sales, will be sufficient to fund our operations into the fourth quarter of 2013. Changes in manufacturing, clinical trial expenses, and expansion of our sales and marketing organization in Europe, may consume capital resources earlier than planned. Additionally, we may not receive the country reimbursement rates in Europe for PIXUVRI that we currently assume in planning for 2013 and 2014. We expect we will need to raise additional funds and are currently exploring alternative sources of debt and other non-dilutive capital. We may seek to raise such capital through debt financings, partnerships, collaborations, joint ventures, disposition of assets or other sources, but our ability to do so is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: • our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities convertible into common stock is restricted by the limited number of authorized shares available for issuance, the difficulty of obtaining shareholder approval to increase the authorized number of shares, and the restrictive covenants of our credit facility; • issuance of equity securities, or securities convertible into our equity securities, will dilute the proportionate ownership of existing shareholders; • our ability to raise debt capital may be limited by the terms of any future indebtedness, and any such indebtedness may include restrictive covenants that limit our operating flexibility; • arrangements that require us to relinquish rights to certain technologies, drug candidates, products and/or potential markets; • we may be required to meet additional regulatory requirements in the European Union (including Italy) and the United States and we may be subject to certain contractual limitations, which may increase our costs and harm our ability to obtain additional funding. However, additional funding may not be available on favorable terms or at all. If we fail to obtain additional capital when needed, we may be required to delay, scale back, or eliminate some or all of our research and 21 Table of Contents development programs as well as reduce our selling, general and administrative expenses, which could materially harm our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. We may continue to incur net losses, and we may never achieve profitability. We were incorporated in 1991 and have incurred a net operating loss every year since our formation. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.8 billion. We are pursuing regulatory approval for PIXUVRI, pacritinib, Opaxio, tosedostat and brostallicin. We will need to continue to conduct research, development, testing and regulatory compliance activities and undertake manufacturing and drug supply activities the costs of which, together with projected general and administrative expenses, may result in operating losses for the foreseeable future. We may never become profitable even if we are able to commercialize PIXUVRI or other products currently in development or otherwise. We have in the past received and may in the future receive audit reports with an explanatory paragraph on our consolidated financial statements. Our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph in its reports on our consolidated financial statements for each of the years ended December 31, 2007 through December 31, 2011 regarding their substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Although our independent registered public accounting firm removed this going concern explanatory paragraph in its report on our December 31, 2012 consolidated financial statements, we expect to continue to need to raise additional financing to fund our operations and satisfy obligations as they become due. The inclusion of a going concern explanatory paragraph in future years may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock and make it more difficult, time consuming or expensive to obtain necessary financing, and we cannot guarantee that we will not receive such an explanatory paragraph in the future. We may not be able to maintain our listings on The NASDAQ Capital Market and the Mercato Telematico Azionario stock market in Italy, or the MTA, or trading on these exchanges may otherwise be halted or suspended, which may make it more difficult for investors to sell shares of our common stock. Maintaining the listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market requires that we comply with certain listing requirements. We have in the past and may in the future fail to continue to meet one or more listing requirements. For example, in June 2012, we received a notification from The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, or NASDAQ, indicating non-compliance with the requirement to maintain a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share and would be delisted if we did not regain compliance prior to the expiration of a 180 day grace period. We regained compliance through a reverse stock split in September 2012, but we could fail to meet the continued listing requirements as a result of a decrease in our stock price or otherwise. If our common stock ceases to be listed for trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market for any reason, it may harm our stock price, increase the volatility of our stock price, decrease the level of trading activity and make it more difficult for investors to buy or sell shares of our common stock. Our failure to maintain a listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market may constitute an event of default under any indebtedness which would accelerate the maturity date of such future debt or trigger other obligations. In addition, certain institutional investors that are not permitted to own securities of non-listed companies may be required to sell their shares adversely affecting the trading price of our common stock. If we are not listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market or if our public float falls below $75 million, we will be limited in our ability to file new shelf registration statements on SEC Form S-3 and/or to fully use one or more registration statements on SEC Form S-3. We have relied significantly on shelf registration statements on SEC Form S-3 for most of our financings in recent years, so any such limitations may harm our ability to raise the capital we need. Delisting from NASDAQ could also affect our ability to maintain our listing or trading on the Borsa Italiana. Trading in our common stock has been halted or suspended on both NASDAQ and Borsa Italiana in the past and may also be halted or suspended in the future due to market or trading conditions at the discretion of NASDAQ, the Commissione Nazionale per le Società e la 22 Table of Contents Borsa, or “CONSOB” (which is the public authority responsible for regulating the Italian securities markets), or the Borsa Italiana (which ensures the development of the managed markets in Italy). Any halt or suspension in the trading in our common stock may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. We may be unable to obtain a quorum for meetings of our shareholders or obtain necessary shareholder approvals and therefore be unable to take certain corporate actions. Our articles of incorporation require that a quorum, generally consisting of one-third of the outstanding shares of voting stock, be represented in person, by telephone or by proxy in order to transact business at a meeting of our shareholders. In addition, amendments to our articles of incorporation, such as an amendment to increase our authorized capital stock, generally require the approval of a majority of our outstanding shares. Failure to meet a quorum or obtain shareholder approval can prevent us from raising capital through equity financing or otherwise taking certain actions that may be in the best interest of the company and shareholders. A substantial majority of our common shares are held by Italian institutions and, under Italian laws and regulations, it is difficult to communicate with the beneficial holders of those shares to obtain votes. In 2006, we were unable to obtain a quorum at two scheduled annual meetings. Following that failure to obtain a quorum, we contacted certain depository banks in Italy where significant numbers of shares of our common stock were held and asked them to cooperate by making a book-entry transfer of their share positions at Monte Titoli to their U.S. correspondent bank, who would then transfer the shares to an account of the Italian bank at a U.S. broker-dealer that is an affiliate of that bank. Certain of the banks contacted agreed to make the share transfer pursuant to these arrangements as of the record date of the meeting, subject to the relevant beneficial owner being given notice before such record date and taking no action to direct the voting of such shares. Obtaining a quorum at future meetings and obtaining necessary shareholder approvals will depend in part upon the willingness of the Italian depository banks to continue participating in the custody transfer arrangements, and we cannot be assured that those banks that have participated in the past will continue to participate in custody transfer arrangements in the future. As a result, we may be unable to obtain a quorum at future annual or special meetings of shareholders or obtain shareholder approval of proposals when needed. Even if we obtain a quorum at our shareholder meetings, we may not obtain enough votes to approve matters to be resolved upon at those meetings. For example, a proposal to approve a reverse stock split failed to receive sufficient votes to pass at the March 2009 shareholders meeting. Moreover, under Rule 452 of the New York Stock Exchange, or Rule 452, the U.S. broker-dealer may only vote shares absent direction from the beneficial owner on certain specified “routine” matters, such as certain amendments to our articles of incorporation to increase authorized shares that are to be used for general corporate purposes and the ratification of our auditors. If our shareholders do not instruct their brokers on how to vote their shares on “non-routine” matters, then we may not obtain the necessary number of votes for approval. “Non-routine” matters include, for example, proposals that relate to the authorization or creation of indebtedness or preferred stock. Revisions to Rule 452 that further limit matters for which broker discretionary voting is allowed, such as the revisions imposed in August 2010 by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to prohibit broker discretionary voting on matters related to executive compensation and in the election of directors, may further harm our ability to obtain a quorum and shareholder approval of certain matters. Therefore it is possible that even if we are able to obtain a quorum for our meetings of the shareholders we still may not receive enough votes to approve proxy proposals presented at such meeting and, depending on the proposal in question, including if a proposal is submitted to our shareholders to increase the number of authorized shares of common stock, such failure could harm us. We could fail in financing efforts or be delisted from NASDAQ if we fail to receive shareholder approval when needed. We are required under the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules to obtain shareholder approval for any issuance of additional equity securities that would comprise more than 20% of the total shares of our common stock 23 Table of Contents outstanding before the issuance of such securities sold at a discount to the greater of book or market value in an offering that is not deemed to be a “public offering” by the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules or NASDAQ. NASDAQ Marketplace Rules also require shareholder approval if an issuance would result in a change of control as defined under the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules and other circumstances. We have in the past and may in the future issue additional equity securities that would comprise more than 20% of the total shares of our common stock outstanding in order to fund our operations. However, we might not be successful in obtaining the required shareholder approval for any future issuance that requires shareholder approval pursuant to the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, particularly in light of the difficulties we have experienced in obtaining a quorum and holding shareholder meetings discussed above. If we are unable to in the future, obtain financing due to shareholder approval difficulties, such failure may harm our ability to continue operations. We are subject to limitations on our ability to issue additional shares of our common stock or undertake other business initiatives due to Italian regulatory requirements. Compliance with Italian regulatory requirements may delay additional issuances of our common stock or other business initiatives. Under Italian law, we must publish a registration document, securities note and summary that have to be approved by CONSOB prior to issuing common stock that exceeds, in any twelve-month period, 10% of the number of shares of our common stock outstanding at the beginning of that period, subject to certain exceptions. If we are unable to obtain and maintain a registration document, securities note or summary to cover general financing efforts under Italian law, we may be required to raise money using alternative forms of securities. For example, we may need to use convertible preferred stock and convertible debt since the common stock resulting from the conversion of such securities, subject to the current provisions of European Directive No. 71/2003 and, according to the current interpretations of the Committee of European Securities Regulators, is not subject to the 10% limitation imposed by E.U. and Italian law. However, there can be no assurance that these exceptions to the registration document requirement are not changed from time to time. We are subject to Italian regulatory requirements, which could result in administrative and other challenges and additional expenses. Because our common stock is traded on the MTA, we are required to also comply with the rules and regulations of CONSOB and the Borsa Italiana, which regulate companies listed on Italy’s public markets. Compliance with these regulations and responding to periodic information requests from Borsa Italiana and CONSOB requires us to devote additional time and resources to regulatory compliance matters, and incur additional expense of engaging additional outside counsel, accountants and other professional advisors. Actual or alleged failure to comply with Italian regulators can also subject us to regulatory investigations. For more information on current investigations, see the regulatory investigations that are discussed in more detail in Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings.” We will incur a variety of costs and may never realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions we may make, including our acquisition of pacritinib. We evaluate and acquire assets and technologies from time to time. If appropriate opportunities become available, we may attempt to acquire other businesses and assets that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. The process of negotiating an acquisition and integrating an acquired business and assets, including the acquisition of pacritinib, may result in operating difficulties and expenditures. In addition, our acquisitions may require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business, whether or not any such transaction is ever consummated. Moreover, we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, including the acquisition of pacritinib. Any additional acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to intangible assets, which could harm our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects and the trading prices of our securities. 24 Table of Contents We may owe additional amounts for value added taxes related to our operations in Europe. Our European operations are subject to value added tax, or VAT, which is usually applied to all goods and services purchased and sold throughout Europe. The VAT receivable was $8.1 million and $5.0 million as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. On April 14, 2009, December 21, 2009 and June 25, 2010, the Italian Tax Authority, or the ITA, issued notices of assessment to CTI (Europe) based on the ITA’s audit of CTI (Europe)’s VAT returns for the years 2003, 2005 and 2006 and 2007. The ITA audits concluded that CTI (Europe) did not collect and remit VAT on certain invoices issued to non-Italian clients for services performed by CTI (Europe). The assessments, including interest and penalties, for the years 2003, 2005, 2006 and 2007 are €0.5 million, €5.5 million, €2.5 million and €0.8 million, or approximately $0.7 million, $7.2 million, $3.3 million and $1.1 million converted using the currency exchange rate as of December 31, 2012, respectively. We believe that the services invoiced were non-VAT taxable consultancy services and that the VAT returns are correct as originally filed. We are vigorously defending ourselves against the assessments both on procedural grounds and on the merits of the case. If the final decision of lower tax courts (i.e. the Provincial Tax Court or the Regional Tax Court) or of the Supreme Court is unfavourable to us, we may be requested to pay to the ITA an amount up to €9.4 million (or approximately $12.4 million converted using the currency exchange rate as of December 31, 2012) plus collection fees, notification expenses and additional interest for the period lapsed between the date in which the assessments were issued and the date of effective payment. Further information pertaining to these cases can be found in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” and is incorporated by reference herein. We may not realize any royalties, milestone payments or other benefits under the License and Co-Development Agreement entered into with Novartis Pharmaceutical Company Ltd. We have entered into a license and co-development agreement related to Opaxio and PIXUVRI with Novartis pursuant to which Novartis received an exclusive worldwide license for the development and commercialization of Opaxio and an option to enter into an exclusive worldwide license to develop and commercialize PIXUVRI. We will not receive any royalty or milestone payments under this agreement unless Novartis exercises its option related to PIXUVRI and we are able to reach a definitive agreement or Novartis elects to participate in the development and commercialization of Opaxio. Novartis is under no obligation to make such election and enter into a definitive license agreement or exercise such right and may never do so. In addition, even if Novartis exercises such rights, any royalties and milestone payments we may be eligible to receive from Novartis are subject to the receipt of the necessary regulatory approvals and the attainment of certain sales levels. In the event Novartis does not elect to participate in the development of Opaxio or PIXUVRI, we may not be able to find another suitable partner for the commercialization and development of those products, which may have an adverse effect on our ability to bring those drugs to market. In addition, we would need to obtain a release from Novartis prior to entering into any agreement to develop and commercialize PIXUVRI or Opaxio with a third party. We may never receive the necessary regulatory approvals and our products may not reach the necessary sales levels to generate royalty or milestone payments even if Novartis elects to exercise its option with regard to PIXUVRI and enter into a definitive license agreement or to participate in the development and commercialization of Opaxio. In addition, the agreement imposes restrictions on activities relating to the development and commercialization of PIXUVRI and any actual or alleged failure to comply with the terms of the agreement could result in potential damage claims, legal expenses, loss of rights under the agreement or termination of the agreement. Novartis has the right under the agreement in its sole discretion to terminate such agreement at any time upon written notice to us. 25 Table of Contents Products that appear promising in research and development may be delayed or fail to reach later stages of development or the market. The successful development of pharmaceutical products is highly uncertain and obtaining regulatory approval to market drugs to treat cancer is expensive, difficult and risky. Products that appear promising in research and development may be delayed or fail to reach later stages of development or the market for several reasons, including: • preclinical tests may show the product to be toxic or lack efficacy in animal models; • clinical trial results may show the product to be less effective than desired or to have harmful or problematic side effects; • failure to receive the necessary U.S. and international regulatory approvals or a delay in receiving such approvals; • difficulties in formulating the product, scaling the manufacturing process or getting approval for manufacturing; • manufacturing costs, pricing, reimbursement issues or other factors may make the product uneconomical to commercialize; • the product candidate is not cost effective in light of existing therapeutics; or • other companies or people have or may have proprietary rights to a product candidate, such as patent rights, and will not let the product candidate be sold on reasonable terms, or at all. Preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, any significant problem in the production of our products, such as the inability of a supplier to provide raw materials or supplies used to manufacture our products, equipment obsolescence, malfunctions or failures, product quality or contamination problems, or changes in regulatory requirements or standards that require modifications to our manufacturing process could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval which could harm our business, financial condition and results or the trading price of our securities. There can be no assurance as to whether or when we will receive regulatory approvals for our products. We may take longer to complete our clinical trials than we expect, or we may not be able to complete them at all. Before regulatory approval for any potential product can be obtained, we must undertake extensive clinical testing on humans to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the applicable regulatory authority the safety and efficacy of the product for its intended use. We forecast the commencement and completion of clinical trials for planning purposes, but actual commencement or completion may not occur as forecasted or planned due to a number of reasons, including: • we may not obtain authorization to permit product candidates that are already in the preclinical development phase to enter the human clinical testing phase; • the FDA, the EMA or other regulatory authority may object to proposed protocols; • there may be shortages of available product supplies or the materials that are used to manufacture the products or the quality or stability of the product candidates may fall below acceptable standards; • authorized preclinical or clinical testing may require significantly more time, resources or expertise than originally expected to be necessary; • clinical testing may not show potential products to be safe and efficacious for the specific indication for which they are tested and, as with many drugs, may fail to demonstrate the desired safety and efficacy characteristics in human clinical trials; 26 Table of Contents • the results from preclinical studies and early clinical trials may not be indicative of the results that will be obtained in later-stage clinical trials; • inadequate financing to complete a clinical trial; • we or regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials at any time on the basis that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons; • the failure of third parties, such as contract research organizations, academic institutions and/or cooperative groups, to conduct, oversee and monitor clinical trials as well as to process the clinical results and manage test requests, to perform or to meet applicable standards; and • the rates of patient recruitment and enrollment of patients who meet trial eligibility criteria may be lower than anticipated as a result of factors, such as the number of patients with the relevant conditions, the nature of the clinical testing, the proximity of patients to clinical testing centers, the eligibility criteria for tests as well as competition with other clinical testing programs involving the same patient profile but different treatments. If we fail to commence or complete, or experience delays in, any of our present or planned clinical trials or need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned, our development costs may increase and/or our ability to commercialize our product candidates may be harmed. If delays or costs are significant, our financial results and our ability to commercialize our product candidates may be harmed. We may not obtain or maintain the regulatory approvals required to commercialize some or all of our products. We are subject to rigorous and extensive regulation by the FDA in the United States and by comparable agencies in other states and countries, including the EMA in the E.U. All of our other compounds are currently in research or development and, other than conditional marketing authorization for PIXUVRI in the E.U., have not received marketing approval for these other compounds or FDA marketing approval of PIXUVRI. Our products may not be marketed in the United States until they have been approved by the FDA and may not be marketed in other countries until they have received approval from the appropriate agencies. Each product candidate requires significant research, development and preclinical testing and extensive clinical investigation before submission of any regulatory application for marketing approval. Obtaining regulatory approval requires substantial time, effort and financial resources, and we may not be able to obtain approval of any of our products on a timely basis, or at all. The number and focus of preclinical and clinical trials that will be required for approval by the FDA, the EMA or any other foreign regulatory agency varies depending on the drug candidate, the disease or condition that the drug candidate is designed to address and the regulations applicable to any particular drug candidate. Preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or preclude regulatory approval. The FDA, the EMA and other foreign regulatory agencies can delay, limit or deny approval of a drug candidate for many reasons, including, but not limited to: • a drug candidate may not be shown to be safe or effective; • a clinical trial results in negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events occur during a clinical trial; • they may not approve the manufacturing process of a drug candidate; • they may interpret data from pre-clinical and clinical trials in different ways than we do; or • they might change their approval policies or adopt new regulations. Any delay or failure by us to obtain regulatory approvals of our products could diminish competitive advantages that we may attain and could adversely affect the marketing of our products. Each product candidate requires significant research, development and preclinical testing and extensive clinical investigation before submission of any regulatory application for marketing approval. The development of anti-cancer drugs, 27 Table of Contents including those we are currently developing, is unpredictable and subject to numerous risks. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements could result in various adverse consequences, including possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, withdrawal of approved products from the market, product seizures, injunctions, regulatory restrictions on our business and sales activities, monetary penalties, or criminal prosecution. If our products are not approved quickly enough to provide net revenues to defray our operating expenses, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed. Information about the status of the regulatory approval of PIXUVRI, pacritinib, Opaxio, tosedostat, and brostallicin can be found in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and is incorporated by reference herein. Except for conditional marketing authorization of PIXUVRI in Europe, none of our current product candidates have received approval for marketing in any country. Even if our drug candidates are successful in clinical trials and receive regulatory approvals, we may not be able to successfully commercialize them. Even if our products are successful in clinical trials and even products that have been granted conditional marketing authorization, such as PIXUVRI, or other regulatory approvals, our products may not reach the market for a number of reasons including that they may: • be found ineffective or cause harmful side effects during preclinical testing or clinical trials; • fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals; • be difficult to manufacture on a scale necessary for commercialization; • be uneconomical to produce; • not compete effectively with existing or future alternatives to our products; • fail to achieve market acceptance; or • be precluded from commercialization by proprietary rights of third parties. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect the commercialization of our products. Products, if introduced, may not be successfully marketed and/or may not achieve customer acceptance. If we fail to commercialize products or if our future products do not achieve significant market acceptance, we will not likely generate significant revenues or become profitable. Even if regulatory approval is obtained, we will be subject to ongoing obligations and continued regulatory review by the FDA, the EMA and other foreign regulatory agencies, as applicable, and may be subject to additional post-marketing obligations, all of which may result in significant expense and limit commercialization of our other products, including PIXUVRI. Even if our other products receive regulatory approvals, we will be subject to numerous regulations and statutes regulating the manner of selling and obtaining reimbursement for those products. Regulatory approvals that we receive for our products may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or require potentially costly post-marketing follow-up studies. In addition, PIXUVRI is subject to extensive regulatory requirements regarding its labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record-keeping. If the FDA, the EMA or other foreign regulatory agency approves any of our other products, they will also be subject to similar extensive regulatory requirements. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with PIXUVRI or any of our other products, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or the discovery that adverse effects or unknown toxicities observed in preclinical research or clinical trials that were believed to be minor actually constitute more serious problems, may result in restrictions on the marketing of the product or withdrawal of the drug from the market. If we are 28 Table of Contents not granted full approval of PIXUVRI in the E.U. or we are unable to renew our conditional marketing authorization for PIXUVRI in the E.U., our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. We cannot predict the outcome of our clinical trial for PIXUVRI or whether our clinical trial for PIXUVRI will serve as either a post-marketing commitment trial or as a pivotal trial. In March 2011, we initiated a randomized pivotal trial of PIXUVRI for the treatment of relapsed or refractory aggressive B-cell NHL. This clinical trial, referred to as PIX306, or PIX-R, will compare a combination of PIXUVRI plus rituximab to a combination of gemcitabine plus rituximab in patients who have relapsed after one to three prior regimens for aggressive B-cell NHL and who are not eligible for autologous stem cell transplant. We cannot predict the outcome of PIX-R or whether PIX-R will serve as either a post-marketing commitment trial or as a pivotal trial. Moreover, the FDA may request that we conduct more clinical trials in addition to PIX-R to obtain FDA approval of our NDA for PIXUVRI and we do not know what this trial will cost or how long it would take to execute this study and provide additional information to the FDA. We may not be able to complete the PIX306 clinical trial by June 2015 or at all. If we are unable to submit the clinical trial data from our ongoing randomized Phase 3 clinical trial, PIX306, by June 2015, it may result in the withdrawal of the conditional marketing authorization by the E.U. We may also need to take additional steps to obtain regulatory approval of PIXUVRI. The expense to design and conduct clinical trials are substantial and any additional clinical trials or actions we may need to pursue to obtain approval of PIXUVRI may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to meet clinical trial deadlines can also result in the withdrawal of conditional marketing authorization. If we do not successfully develop our product candidates into marketable products, we may be unable to generate significant revenue or become profitable. Currently only our product PIXUVRI is approved for marketing in the European Union. Pacritinib, Opaxio, tosedostat and brostallicin are currently in clinical trials; the development and clinical trials of these products may not be successful and, even if they are, we may not be successful in developing any of them into a commercial product. For example, our STELLAR Phase 3 clinical trials for Opaxio for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer failed to meet their primary endpoints. In addition, a number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including us, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after reporting promising results in earlier trials. We will need to commit significant time and resources to develop these and any additional product candidates. Even if our trials are viewed as successful, we may not get regulatory approval. Our product candidates will be successful only if: • our product candidates are developed to a stage that will enable us to commercialize them or sell related marketing rights to pharmaceutical companies; • we are able to commercialize product candidates in clinical development or sell the marketing rights to third parties; and • our product candidates, if developed, are approved by the regulatory authorities. We are dependent on the successful completion of these goals in order to generate revenues. The failure to generate such revenues may preclude us from continuing our research and development of these and other product candidates. We may be delayed, limited or precluded from obtaining regulatory approval of Opaxio as a maintenance therapy for advanced-stage ovarian cancer and as a radiation sensitizer. We are currently developing Opaxio as a potential maintenance therapy for women with advanced-stage ovarian cancer who achieve a complete remission following first-line therapy with paclitaxel and carboplatin and 29 Table of Contents as a radiation sensitizer. This Phase 3 clinical trial, or the GOG-0212 trial, is under the control of the Gynecologic Oncology Group, or the GOG, and is expected to enroll 1,100 patients. On January 31, 2013, the Data Safety Monitoring Board recommended continuation of the GOG-0212 trial of Opaxio for maintenance therapy in ovarian cancer with no changes following the first planned interim survival analysis. Three prior pivotal clinical trials for Opaxio have not been successful and failure of the GOG-0212 trial could delay, limit or preclude regulatory approval of Opaxio. We may be subject to fines, penalties, injunctions and other sanctions if we are deemed to be promoting the use of our products for non-FDA-approved, or off-label, uses. Our business and future growth depend on the development, use and ultimate sale of products that are subject to FDA, EMA and or other regulatory agencies regulation, clearance and approval. Under the U.S. Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and other laws, we are prohibited from promoting our products for off-label uses. This means that in the United States, we may not make claims about the safety or effectiveness of our products and may not proactively discuss or provide information on the use of our products, except as allowed by the FDA. Government investigations concerning the promotion of off-label uses and related issues are typically expensive, disruptive and burdensome and generate negative publicity. If our promotional activities are found to be in violation of applicable law or if we agree to a settlement in connection with an enforcement action, we would likely face significant fines and penalties and would likely be required to substantially change our sales, promotion, grant and educational activities. For example, in April 2007, we paid a civil penalty of $10.6 million and entered into a settlement agreement with the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Western District of Washington arising out of their investigation into certain of our prior marketing practices relating to TRISENOX, which was divested to Cephalon Inc. in July 2005. As part of that settlement agreement and in connection with the acquisition of Zevalin, we also entered into a corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, which required us to establish a compliance committee and compliance program and adopt a formal code of conduct. If we fail to establish and maintain collaborations, we may be unable to develop and commercialize our product candidates. We have entered into collaborative arrangements with third-parties to develop and/or commercialize product candidates and are currently seeking additional collaborations. For example, we entered into an agreement with the GOG to perform a Phase 3 trial of Opaxio in patients with ovarian cancer. Additional collaborations might be necessary in order for us to fund our research and development activities and third-party manufacturing arrangements, seek and obtain regulatory approvals and successfully commercialize our existing and future product candidates. If we fail to enter into additional collaborative arrangements or fail to maintain our existing collaborative arrangements, the number of product candidates from which we could receive future revenues would decline. Our dependence on collaborative arrangements with third parties will subject us to a number of risks that could harm our ability to develop and commercialize products. Our collaborative arrangements with third parties, subject us to a number of risks, including: • collaborative arrangements may not be on terms favorable to us; • disagreements with partners may result in delays in the development and marketing of products, termination of our collaboration agreements or time consuming and expensive legal action; • we cannot control the amount and timing of resources partners devote to product candidates or their prioritization of product candidates and partners may not allocate sufficient funds or resources to the development, promotion or marketing of our products, or may not perform their obligations as expected; 30 Table of Contents • partners may choose to develop, independently or with other companies, alternative products or treatments, including products or treatments which compete with ours; • agreements with partners may expire or be terminated without renewal, or partners may breach collaboration agreements with us; • business combinations or significant changes in a partner’s business strategy might adversely affect that partner’s willingness or ability to complete its obligations to us; and • the terms and conditions of the relevant agreements may no longer be suitable. The occurrence of any of these events could harm the development or commercialization of our products. Our dependence on third-party manufacturers means that we do not always have direct control over the manufacture, testing or distribution of our products. We do not currently have internal analytical laboratory or manufacturing facilities to allow the testing or production and distribution of drug products in compliance with cGMPs. We are dependent on a single vendor for manufacturing PIXUVRI and, as such, we do not have direct control over the manufacture, testing or distribution of PIXUVRI. The active pharmaceutical ingredients and drug products for our products under development, pacritinib, tosedostat and brostallicin, are manufactured by single vendors. Finished product manufacture and distribution for these products are to be manufactured and distributed by different single vendors. In addition, one of our other products under development, Opaxio, has a complex manufacturing process and supply chain, which may prevent us from obtaining a sufficient supply of drug product for the clinical trials and commercial activities currently planned or underway on a timely basis, if at all. Because we do not directly control our suppliers, these vendors may not be able to provide us with finished product when we need it. If our vendors fail to comply with regulatory requirements or we experience a delay in the manufacturing of our finished products, we may experience a delay in the distribution of our products, which may impact the related clinical trials and our commercial activities currently planned or underway. If our contract manufacturers and/or our products fail to comply with FDA, EMA or other applicable regulations, we may have to curtail or stop the manufacture of such products which would harm our sales. We are dependent upon third parties to supply us in a timely manner with products manufactured in compliance with cGMPs or similar manufacturing standards imposed by United States and/or foreign regulatory authorities where our products will be tested and/or marketed. While the FDA, EMA and other regulatory authorities maintain oversight for cGMP compliance of drug manufacturers, contract manufacturers and contract service providers may at times violate cGMPs. The FDA, EMA and other regulatory authorities may take action against a contract manufacturer who violates cGMPs. Failure to comply with FDA, EMA or other applicable regulations may cause us to curtail or stop the manufacture of such products until we obtain regulatory compliance. Both before and after approval, our contract manufacturers and our products are subject to numerous regulatory requirements covering, among other things, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution and export. Manufacturing processes must conform to current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMPs. The FDA, EMA and other regulatory authorities periodically inspect manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMPs. Failure of our manufacturers to comply with FDA, EMA or other applicable regulations may cause us to curtail or stop the manufacture of such products until we obtain regulatory compliance, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our financial condition may be harmed if third parties default in the performance of contractual obligations. Our business is dependent on the performance by third parties of their responsibilities under contractual relationships. For example, in 2005 we sold our product TRISENOX to Cephalon and, pursuant to the terms of the purchase agreement under which TRISENOX was sold, we are entitled to receive milestone payments upon 31 Table of Contents the approval by the FDA of new labeled uses for TRISENOX; however, Cephalon may decide not to submit any additional information to the FDA to apply for label expansion of TRISENOX, in which case we would not receive a milestone payment under the agreement. In September 2012, our wholly-owned subsidiary CTI Life Sciences Ltd., or CTILS, entered into a Logistics Agreement with Movianto Nederland BV, or Movianto, pursuant to which Movianto agreed to provide certain warehousing, transportation, distribution, order processing and cash collection services and all related activities to CTILS and its affiliates for PIXUVRI in certain agreed territories in Europe. Movianto provides a variety of services related to our sales of PIXUVRI, including the receipt, unloading and checking, warehousing and inventory control; customer order management; distribution and transportation; lot number and expiry date control; returned goods processing; return and recall; product quality assurance; reporting, credit management and debt collection. If Movianto, or other third parties we may enter into contracts with default on the performance of their contractual obligations, we could suffer significant financial losses and operational problems, which could in turn adversely affect our financial performance, cash flows or results of operations and may jeopardize our ability to maintain our operations. We face direct and intense competition from our competitors in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, and we may not compete successfully against them. Competition in the oncology market is intense and is accentuated by the rapid pace of technological development. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter the market. Our competitors in the United States and elsewhere are numerous and include, among others, major multinational pharmaceutical companies, specialized biotechnology companies and universities and other research institutions. Specifically: • If we are successful in bringing PIXUVRI to market in the United States, PIXUVRI will face competition from currently marketed anthracyclines, such as mitoxantrone (Novantrone®). In addition, PIXUVRI may face competition in the United States and the European Union if new anti-cancer drugs with reduced toxicity are developed and marketed in the United States and/or the European Union. • If we are successful in bringing Opaxio to market, we will face direct competition from oncology-focused multinational corporations. Opaxio will compete with other taxanes. Many oncology-focused multinational corporations currently market or are developing taxanes, epothilones, and other cytotoxic agents, which inhibit cancer cells by a mechanism similar to taxanes, or similar products. Such corporations include, among others, Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and others, which market paclitaxel and generic forms of paclitaxel; Sanofi-Aventis, which markets docetaxel; Genentech, Roche and OSI Pharmaceuticals, which market Tarceva™; Genentech and Roche, which market Avastin™; Eli Lilly, which markets Alimta®; and Celgene, which markets Abraxane™. In addition, other companies such as Telik, Inc. are also developing products, which could compete with Opaxio. • If we are successful in bringing pacritinib to market, pacritinib will face competition from ruxolitinib (Jakafi®) and new drugs targeting similar diseases that may be developed and marketed. • If we are successful in bringing tosedostat to market, tosedostat will face competition from currently marketed products, such as Dacogen®, Vidaza®, Clolar®, Revlimid®, Thalomid® and new anti-cancer drugs that may be developed and marketed. • If we are successful in bringing brostallicin to market, we will face direct competition from other minor groove binding agents including Yondelis®, which is currently developed by PharmaMar and has received Authorization of Commercialization from the European Commission for soft tissue sarcoma. Many of our competitors, particularly the multinational pharmaceutical companies, either alone or together with their collaborators, have substantially greater financial and technical resources and substantially larger development and marketing teams than us, as well as significantly greater experience than we do in developing, manufacturing and marketing products. As a result, products of our competitors might come to market sooner or might prove to be more effective, less expensive, have fewer side effects or be easier to administer than ours. In 32 Table of Contents any such case, sales of our current or future products would likely suffer and we might never recoup the significant investments we are making to develop these product candidates. If users of our products are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from third party payers, or if new restrictive legislation is adopted, market acceptance of our products may be limited and we may not achieve anticipated revenues. Even if we succeed in bringing any of our proposed products to market, they may not be considered cost-effective and third-party or government reimbursement might not be available or sufficient. The continuing efforts of government and insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other payers of healthcare costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may affect our future revenues and profitability, and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborative partners and the availability of capital. Governmental and other third-party payors continue to attempt to contain healthcare costs by: • challenging the prices charged for health care products and services; • limiting both coverage and the amount of reimbursement for new therapeutic products; • denying or limiting coverage for products that are approved by the FDA or the EMA, but are considered experimental or investigational by third-party payors; • refusing in some cases to provide coverage when an approved product is used for disease indications in a way that has not received FDA or EMA marketing approval; and • denying coverage altogether. Federal statutes generally prohibit providing certain discounts and payments to physicians to encourage them to prescribe our product. Violations of such regulations or statutes may result in treble damages, criminal or civil penalties, fines or exclusion of us or our employees from participation in federal and state health care programs. Although we have policies prohibiting violations of relevant regulations and statutes, unauthorized actions of our employees or consultants, or unfavorable interpretations of such regulations or statutes may result in third parties or regulatory agencies bringing legal proceedings or enforcement actions against us. Because we will likely need to develop a new sales force for any future marketed products, we may have a greater risk of such violations from lack of adequate training or experience. The expense to retain and pay legal counsel and consultants to defend against any such proceedings would be substantial, and together with the diversion of management’s time and attention to assist in any such defense, may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the United States, under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (HR 3590), or the PPACA, instituted comprehensive health care reform in 2010 and we believe the U.S. Congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of healthcare services and products and on the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid systems. The announcement or adoption of these proposals could significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and products, resulting in lower prices and reducing demand for our products. In addition, in almost all European markets, pricing and choice of prescription pharmaceuticals are subject to governmental control. Therefore, the price of our products and their reimbursement in Europe will be determined by national regulatory authorities. For example, the pricing of PIXUVRI in Europe is subject to governmental control and we are focused on obtaining reimbursement in the five major market European countries (France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom), as well as smaller territories in Western and Northern Europe, in 2013. If adequate third-party or government coverage is not available, or if new restrictive legislation is adopted, market acceptance of our products may be limited and we may not be able to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in research and product development or achieve anticipated revenues. In addition, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change in ways adverse to us before or after any of our proposed products are approved for marketing. 33 Table of Contents If any of our license agreements for intellectual property underlying PIXUVRI, pacritinib, Opaxio, tosedostat, brostallicin, or any other products are terminated, we may lose the right to develop or market that product. We have licensed intellectual property from third parties, including patent applications relating to intellectual property for PIXUVRI, pacritinib, tosedostat, and brostallicin. We have also licensed the intellectual property for our drug delivery technology relating to Opaxio which uses polymers that are linked to drugs, known as polymer-drug conjugates. Some of our product development programs depend on our ability to maintain rights under these licenses. Each licensor has the power to terminate its agreement with us if we fail to meet our obligations under these licenses. We may not be able to meet our obligations under these licenses. If we default under any license agreement, we may lose our right to market and sell any products based on the licensed technology and may be forced to cease operations, liquidate our assets and possibly seek bankruptcy protection. Bankruptcy may result in the termination of agreements pursuant to which we license certain intellectual property rights, including the rights to PIXUVRI, pacritinib, Opaxio, tosedostat, and brostallicin. If we are unable to enter into new in-licensing arrangements, our future product portfolio and potential profitability could be harmed. One component of our business strategy is in-licensing drug compounds developed by other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies or academic research laboratories. Our product candidates PIXUVRI, Opaxio, tosedostat, and brostallicin are in clinical and pre-clinical development and are in-licensed from third-parties. Competition for new promising compounds and commercial products can be intense. If we are not able to identify future in-licensing opportunities and enter into future licensing arrangements on acceptable terms, our future product portfolio and potential profitability could be harmed. We hold rights under numerous patents that we have acquired or licensed or that protect inventions originating from our research and development, and the expiration of any one or more of these patents may allow our competitors to copy the inventions that are currently protected. We dedicate significant resources to protecting our intellectual property, which is important to our business. We have filed numerous patent applications in the United States and various other countries seeking protection of inventions originating from our research and development and we have also obtained rights to various patents and patent applications under licenses with third parties and through acquisitions. Patents have been issued on many of these applications. We have pending patent applications or issued patents in the United States and foreign countries directed to PIXUVRI, pacritinib, Opaxio, tosedostat, brostallicin and other product candidates. However, the lives of these patents are limited. Patents for the individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of the patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The Opaxio-directed patents will expire on various dates ranging from 2017 through 2018. The pacritinib-directed U.S. patents will expire from 2026 through 2029. The PIXUVRI-directed U.S. patents will expire in 2014. The tosedostat-directed U.S. patents will expire in 2017. The brostallicin-directed U.S. patents will expire on various dates ranging between 2017 through 2021. The PIXUVRI-directed patents in Europe will expire from 2013 through 2023. Such patent expirations do not account for potential extensions that may be available in certain countries. For example, certain PIXUVRI-directed patents may be subject to possible patent-term extensions that could provide extensions through 2019 in the United States and through 2027 in some countries in Europe. Supplementary Protection Certificates extending certain PIXUVRI-directed patents have been granted in Italy and Luxembourg, but there can be no guarantee of extensions in other countries. The expiration of these patents may allow our competitors to copy the inventions that are currently protected and better compete with us. 34 Table of Contents If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, our competitive position could be harmed. Development and protection of our intellectual property are critical to our business. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to practice our technologies. Our success depends in part on our ability to: • obtain patent protection for our products or processes both in the United States and other countries; • protect trade secrets; and • prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. The patent position of biopharmaceutical firms generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has not established a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims that it will allow in biotechnology patents. If it allows broad claims, the number and cost of patent interference proceedings in the United States and the risk of infringement litigation may increase. If it allows narrow claims, the risk of infringement may decrease, but the value of our rights under our patents, licenses and patent applications may also decrease. Patent applications in which we have rights may never issue as patents and the claims of any issued patents may not afford meaningful protection for our technologies or products. In addition, patents issued to us or our licensors may be challenged and subsequently narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. Litigation, interference proceedings or other governmental proceedings that we may become involved in with respect to our proprietary technologies or the proprietary technology of others could result in substantial cost to us. We also rely upon trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation to remain competitive. Third parties may independently develop such know-how or otherwise obtain access to our technology. While we require our employees, consultants and corporate partners with access to proprietary information to enter into confidentiality agreements, these agreements may not be honored. Patent litigation is widespread in the biotechnology industry, and any patent litigation could harm our business. Costly litigation might be necessary to protect a patent position or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights, and we may not have the required resources to pursue any such litigation or to protect our patent rights. Any adverse outcome in litigation with respect to the infringement or validity of any patents owned by third parties could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease using a product or technology. With respect to our in-licensed patents, if we attempt to initiate a patent infringement suit against an alleged infringer, it is possible that our applicable licensor will not participate in or assist us with the suit and as a result we may not be able to effectively enforce the applicable patents against the alleged infringers. We may be unable to obtain or protect our intellectual property rights and we may be liable for infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to engage in costly litigation and, if unsuccessful, could cause us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from selling our products. At times, we may monitor patent filings for patents that might be relevant to some of our products and product candidates in an effort to guide the design and development of our products to avoid infringement, but have not conducted an exhaustive search. We may not be able to successfully challenge the validity of third-party patents and could be required to pay substantial damages, possibly including treble damages, for past infringement and attorneys’ fees if it is ultimately determined that our products infringe such patents. Further, we may be prohibited from selling our products before we obtain a license, which, if available at all, may require us to pay substantial royalties. Moreover, third parties may challenge the patents that have been issued or licensed to us. We do not believe that PIXUVRI or any of the products we are currently developing infringe upon the rights of any third parties nor 35 Table of Contents are they infringed upon by third parties; however, there can be no assurance that our technology will not be found in the future to infringe upon the rights of others or be infringed upon by others. In such a case, others may assert infringement claims against us, and should we be found to infringe upon their patents, or otherwise impermissibly utilize their intellectual property, we might be forced to pay damages, potentially including treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed on such parties’ patent rights. In addition to any damages we might have to pay, we may be required to obtain licenses from the holders of this intellectual property, enter into royalty agreements, or redesign our drug candidates so as not to utilize this intellectual property, each of which may prove to be uneconomical or otherwise impossible. Conversely, we may not always be able to successfully pursue our claims against others that infringe upon our technology and the technology exclusively licensed from any third parties. Thus, the proprietary nature of our technology or technology licensed by us may not provide adequate protection against competitors. Even if infringement claims against us are without merit, or if we challenge the validity of issued patents, lawsuits take significant time, may, even if resolved in our favor, be expensive and divert management attention from other business concerns. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations. We may be subject to litigation proceedings that could harm our financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to legal claims or regulatory matters involving shareholder, consumer, regulatory and other issues. As described in “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K, we are currently engaged in a number of litigation matters. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. Adverse outcomes in some or all of such pending cases may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us. If an unfavorable ruling were to occur in any of the legal proceedings we are or may be subject to, our business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our securities may be harmed for the period in which the ruling occurred or future periods. We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits from time to time, some of which arise in the ordinary course of our business. The ultimate outcome of litigation and other claims is subject to inherent uncertainties, and our view of these matters may change in the future. It is possible that our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed in any period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. For example, as described in “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K, CONSOB has not yet notified us of a resolution with respect to its claim that our disclosure related to the contents of the opinion expressed by Stonefield Josephson, Inc., an independent public accounting firm, with respect to our 2008 financial statements was late. However, based on our assessment, we believe the likelihood that it is probable that CONSOB will impose a pecuniary administrative sanction for such asserted violation. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. For example, we and certain of our officers and directors were named as defendants in purported securities class action and shareholder derivative lawsuits brought on behalf of a putative class of purchasers of our securities from March 25, 2008 through March 22, 2010 that we subsequently settled. We could not predict with certainty the eventual outcome of pending litigation. Furthermore, we may have to incur substantial expenses in connection with these lawsuits and our management’s attention and resources could be diverted from operating our business as we respond to the litigation. Our insurance is subject to high deductibles and there is no guarantee that the insurance will cover any specific claim that we currently face or may face in the future, or that it will be adequate to cover all potential liabilities and damages. Prior to when commercial sales of PIXUVRI began, we had an exclusive manufacturing contract for drug substance with a different manufacturer. We are currently disputing our right to cancel the exclusive manufacturing contract between us and the former manufacturer of PIXUVRI. We assert multiple grounds for 36 Table of Contents terminating this exclusive manufacturing agreement, which the former manufacturer disputes. The former manufacturer has asserted that we do not have the right to terminate the manufacturing contracts and has filed a lawsuit in the Court of Milan to compel us to source PIXUVRI from that manufacturer. A hearing was held on January 21, 2010 to discuss preliminary matters and set a schedule for future filings and hearings. On November 11, 2010, a hearing was held aimed at examining and discussing the requests for evidence submitted by the parties in the briefs filed pursuant to article 183, paragraph 6 of the Italian code of civil procedure. At the hearing on November 1,1 2010, the judge declared that the case does not require any discovery or evidentiary phase, as it may be decided on the basis of the documents and pleadings filed by the parties. At the hearing on October 11, 2012, the parties informed the court about the ongoing negotiations pending between them and asked the court, accordingly, to postpone the case. At the request of the parties, the court extended the final hearing until March 21, 2013. If there is an adverse outcome in the shareholder derivative litigation that was filed against us, our business may be harmed. In April 2010, three shareholder derivative complaints were filed against us and certain of our officers and directors in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington. These derivative complaints allege that defendants breached their fiduciary duties to us by making or failing to prevent the issuance of certain alleged false and misleading statements related to the FDA approval process for PIXUVRI. In May 2010, Judge Marsha Pechman consolidated the shareholder derivative actions under the caption Shackleton v. Bauer (Case No. 2:10-cv-00414-MJP), and appointed the law firms of Robbins Umeda LLP (now Robbins Arroyo LLP) and Federman & Sherwood as co-lead counsel for derivative plaintiffs. Three more derivative complaints were filed in June, July and October 2010, and they have also been consolidated with Shackleton v. Bauer. In November 2012, co-lead counsel filed an executed Stipulation of Settlement, with attached exhibits, with the Court and derivative plaintiffs filed an Unopposed Motion for Preliminary Approval of Settlement, along with related documents. The Court issued an Order Preliminarily Approving Settlement and Providing for Notice on December 26, 2012, scheduling a settlement hearing for March 22, 2013 at 10:00 am. In February 2013, co-lead counsel filed Plaintiffs’ Unopposed Motion for Final Approval of the Settlement and Plaintiffs’ Application for Attorneys’ Fees, Reimbursement of Expenses, and Incentive Award, seeking up to $1.3 million in attorneys fees, reimbursement of $58,195.07 in expenses, and an incentive award of $1,500.00 for plaintiff Joseph Shackleton. We believe these fees and expenses will be covered by insurance. At this stage of the litigation, no probability of loss can be predicted in the event the settlement does not receive final approval. As with any litigation proceeding, we cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of pending litigation. Furthermore, we may have to incur substantial expenses in connection with these lawsuits. In the event of an adverse outcome, our business could be materially harmed. We may be unable to obtain the raw materials necessary to produce our Opaxio product candidate in sufficient quantity to meet demand when and if such product is approved. We may not be able to continue to purchase the materials necessary to produce Opaxio, including paclitaxel, in adequate volume and quality. Paclitaxel is derived from certain varieties of yew trees and the supply of paclitaxel is controlled by a limited number of companies. We purchase the raw materials paclitaxel and polyglutamic acid from single sources. If the paclitaxel or polyglutamic acid purchased from our sources is insufficient in quantity or quality, if a supplier fail to deliver in a timely fashion or at all, or if these relationships terminate, we may not be able to qualify and obtain a sufficient supply from alternate sources on acceptable terms, or at all. Our net operating losses may not be available to reduce future income tax liability. Our substantial tax loss carryforwards for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but our ability to use such carryforwards to offset future income or tax liability is limited under section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, as a result of prior changes in the stock ownership of the company. Moreover, future changes 37 Table of Contents in the ownership of our stock, including those resulting from issuance of shares of our common stock upon exercise of outstanding warrants, may further limit our ability to use our net operating losses. Because there is a risk of product liability associated with our products, we face potential difficulties in obtaining insurance. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of human pharmaceutical products. If the insurance covering the product use in our clinical trials for our product candidates is not maintained on acceptable terms or at all, we might not have adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Our inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or limit the commercialization of any products we develop. A successful product liability claim could also exceed our insurance coverage and could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our assets and liabilities in our European branches and subsidiaries make us subject to increased risk regarding currency exchange rate fluctuations. We are exposed to risks associated with the translation of euro-denominated financial results and accounts into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The carrying value of the assets and liabilities held in our European branches and subsidiaries will be affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to the euro. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to the euro might have an adverse effect on our reported results of operations and financial condition. Since we use hazardous materials in our business, we may be subject to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. We are subject to international, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such materials and certain waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by the regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated completely. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability not covered by insurance could exceed our resources. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. We may not be able to conduct animal testing in the future, which could harm our research and development activities. Certain of our research and development activities involve animal testing. Such activities have been the subject of controversy and adverse publicity. Animal rights groups and other organizations and individuals have attempted to stop animal testing activities by pressing for legislation and regulation in these areas and by disrupting activities through protests and other means. To the extent the activities of these groups are successful, our business could be materially harmed by delaying or interrupting our research and development activities. Risks Related To the Securities Markets The market price of our common stock is extremely volatile, which may affect our ability to raise capital in the future and may subject the value of your investment in our securities to sudden decreases. The market price for securities of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including ours, historically has been highly volatile, and the market from time to time has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. The market price of our 38 Table of Contents common stock may be harmed by market conditions affecting the stock markets in general, including price and trading fluctuations on The NASDAQ Capital Market. For example, during the twelve month period ended February 22, 2013, our stock price has ranged from a low of $1.14 to a high of $7.40 (as adjusted to reflect the one-for-five reverse stock split effective September 2, 2012). Fluctuations in the trading price or liquidity of our common stock may harm the value of your investment in our common stock. These conditions may result in (i) volatility in the level of, and fluctuations in, the market prices of stocks generally and, in turn, our shares of common stock, and (ii) sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, in each case that could be unrelated or disproportionate to changes in our operating performance. Factors that may have a significant impact on the market price and marketability of our securities include: • announcements by us or others of results of preclinical testing and clinical trials and regulatory actions; • announcements by us or others of serious adverse events that have occurred during treatment of patients following the grant of conditional marketing authorization for PIXUVRI in the European Union; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial therapeutic products by us, our collaborative partners or our present or potential competitors; • our issuance of debt, equity or other securities, which we need to pursue to generate additional funds to cover our operating expenses; • our quarterly operating results; • developments or disputes concerning patent or other proprietary rights; • developments in our relationships with collaborative partners; • acquisitions or divestitures; • our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of pacritinib; • litigation and government proceedings; • adverse legislation, including changes in governmental regulation; • third-party reimbursement policies; • changes in securities analysts’ recommendations; • short selling; • changes in health care policies and practices; • halting or suspension of trading in our common stock by NASDAQ, CONSOB or the Borsa Italiana; and • general economic and market conditions. Securities class action lawsuits are often brought against companies after periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Such lawsuits have been filed against us in the past, and should any new lawsuits be filed, such matters could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources and our senior management team’s attention. Shares of common stock are equity securities and are subordinate to any preferred stock or future indebtedness. Shares of our common stock rank junior to any shares of our preferred stock that we may issue in the future to any existing or future indebtedness we may incur and to all creditor claims and other non-equity claims against us and our assets available to satisfy claims on us, including claims in a bankruptcy or similar proceeding. Any future indebtedness and preferred stock may restrict payment of dividends on our common stock. 39 Table of Contents Additionally, unlike indebtedness, where principal and interest customarily are payable on specified due dates, in the case of our common stock, (i) dividends are payable only when and if declared by our board of directors or a duly authorized committee of our board of directors, and (ii) as a corporation, we are restricted to making dividend payments and redemption payments out of legally available assets. We have never paid a dividend on our common stock and have no current intention to pay dividends in the future. Furthermore, our common stock places no restrictions on our business or operations or on our ability to incur indebtedness or engage in any transactions, subject only to the voting rights available to shareholders generally. Future sales or other dilution of our equity may harm the market price of shares of our common stock. We expect to issue additional equity securities to fund our operating expenses as well as for other purposes. The market price of our shares of common stock or preferred stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market, or the perception that such sales could occur in the future. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, in our shareholder rights plan, or rights plan, and under Washington law could make removal of incumbent management or an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our shareholders, more difficult. Provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of deterring or delaying attempts by our shareholders to remove or replace management, to commence proxy contests, or to effect changes in control. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors so that only approximately one-third of our board of directors is elected each year; • elimination of cumulative voting in the election of directors; • procedures for advance notification of shareholder nominations and proposals; • the ability of our board of directors to amend our amended and restated bylaws without shareholder approval; and • the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without shareholder approval upon the terms and conditions and with the rights, privileges and preferences as the board of directors may determine. Pursuant to our rights plan, an acquisition of 20% or more of our common stock could result in the exercisability of the preferred stock purchase right accompanying each share of our common stock (except those held by a 20% shareholder, which become null and void), thereby entitling the holder to receive upon exercise, in lieu of a number of units of preferred stock, that number of shares of our common stock having a market value of two times the exercise price of the right. The existence of our rights plan could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us and may inhibit a change in control that some, or a majority, of our shareholders might believe to be in their best interest or that could give our shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market prices for their shares. In addition, as a Washington corporation, we are subject to Washington’s anti-takeover statute which imposes restrictions on some transactions between a corporation and certain significant shareholders. These provisions, alone or together, could have the effect of deterring or delaying changes in incumbent management, proxy contests or changes in control. Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 40 Table of Contents 