ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Much of the information included in this annual report includes or is based upon estimates, projections or other “forward-looking statements.” Such forward-looking statements any include projections or estimates made by us and our management in connection with our business operations. While these forward-looking statements, and any assumptions upon which they are based, are made in good faith and reflect our current judgment regarding the direction of our business, actual results will almost always vary, sometimes materially, from any estimates, predictions, projections, assumptions, or other future performance suggested herein. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of such statements. Such estimates, projections or other “forward-looking statements” involve various risks and uncertainties as outlined below. We caution readers of this annual report that important factors in some cases have affected and, in the future, could materially affect actual results and cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed in any such estimates, projections or other “forward-looking statements.” In evaluating us, our business and any investment in our business, readers should carefully consider the following factors. We have no recent operating history that you can use to evaluate us and therefore we may not survive if we meet some of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complications and delays frequently encountered by a start-up company. We essentially ceased active business in 1997 and have been reviewing business opportunities since. In February 2009, we hired new officers and directors of the Company but have not yet conducted any substantial business nor consummated any material business agreements. To date, we have focused our attention on seeking acquisitions and business opportunities. Accordingly, you can evaluate our business, and therefore our future prospects, based only on a limited operating history. You must consider our prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties encountered by start-up companies. As a start-up company, we can provide no assurances that we will be able to make the necessary steps to achieve profitability in the future, such as expanding our customer base. We are subject to all the substantial risks inherent in the commencement of a new business enterprise with new management. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to successfully generate revenues or operate profitably. We have no recent business history for you to analyze or to aid you in making an informed judgment as to the merits of an investment in our securities. Any investment in our common stock should be considered a high risk investment because you will be placing funds at risk in an unseasoned start-up company with unforeseen costs, expenses, competition and other problems to which start-up ventures are often subject. As we have such a limited history of operation, you will be unable to assess our future operating performance or our future financial results or condition by comparing these criteria against our past or present equivalents. We will require additional funds to achieve our current business strategy. Our inability to obtain additional financing will inhibit our ability to expand or even maintain our business operations. We will need to raise additional funds through debt or equity financing to achieve our current business strategy. The financing we need may not be available when needed. Even if this financing is available, it may be on terms that we deem unacceptable or are materially adverse to your interests with respect to dilution of book value, dividend preferences, liquidation preferences, or other terms. Our inability to obtain financing will inhibit our ability to implement our development strategy, and as a result, could require us to diminish or suspend our development strategy and possibly cease our operations. If we are unable to obtain financing on reasonable terms, we could be forced to delay, scale back or eliminate certain product and service development programs. In addition, such inability to obtain financing on reasonable terms could have a negative effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition to such extent that we are forced to restructure, file for bankruptcy, sell assets or cease operations, any of which could put your investment dollars at significant risk. 3 We expect to experience significant and rapid growth in the scope and complexity of our business if our business strategy gains acceptance in the market. If we are unable to hire additional staff to handle engineering, sales and marketing of our products and services and manage our operations, our growth could harm our future business results and may strain our managerial and operational resources. If our business gains acceptance in the market, we expect to experience significant and rapid growth in the scope and complexity of our business. We will need to hire staff to market our products and services and perform finance and accounting functions. We will be required to hire a broad range of personnel in order to successfully advance our operations. This growth is likely to place a strain on our management and operational resources. If we fail to develop and implement effective systems, or hire and retain sufficient personnel for the performance of all of the functions necessary to effectively service and manage our future relationships, or fail to manage growth effectively, our business will fail and you will lose your entire investment in our company. If we are unable to hire and retain key personnel, then we may not be able to implement our business plan. We depend on the services of our officers and directors, Christian Soderquist and George Ecker. Our success depends on the continued efforts of these individuals to manage our business operations. The loss of the services of either of these individuals could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our success in expanding our business operations is largely dependent on our ability to hire highly qualified personnel. In addition, we may lose employees or consultants that we hire due to higher salaries and fees being offered by competitors or other businesses in the industry. Our managers’ control of our company may prevent you from causing a change in the course of our operations and may affect the market price of our common stock. Mr. Soderquist and Mr. Ecker each beneficially own approximately 35% of our common stock and together control the majority of the Company’s voting shares. Accordingly, for as long as they continue to own more than 50% of our common stock, they will be able to elect a majority or all of our board of directors, control all matters that require a stockholder vote (such as mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations) and exercise a significant amount of influence over our management and operations. Therefore, your ability to cause a change in the course of our operations may be impeded. This concentration of ownership could result in a reduction in value to the common stock you own and could have the effect of preventing us from undergoing a change of control in the future. We may pursue strategic acquisitions and investments that could have an adverse effect on our business if they are unsuccessful. As part of our business strategy, we intend to acquire companies, and acquire or license technologies and product lines. There is the risk that our valuation assumptions and models for any acquired product, business or technology that we may acquire will be overly optimistic or inaccurate or that customers do not demand the products or services to the extent we expect, the technology does not function as we expect, that or the technology we acquire is the subject of infringement or trade secret claims by third parties. The identification of acquisition candidates is difficult and we may not correctly assess the risks related to such acquisitions and investments. In particular, our determinations and assessments of technology candidates involve assessments of the financial performance of the candidates and past financial performance that we observe may not be indicative of future financial performance. In addition, acquisitions could be effected on terms less satisfactory to us than expected. If these risks materialize, the benefit that we derive from businesses, technologies, products or services that we acquire or license may be less than we expect, with the result that our operating losses could increase. We have a history of losses and have a deficit, which raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have not generated any revenues since we sold our assets in 1997 and we will continue to incur operating expenses without revenues until we are in commercial deployment. We currently do not have any operations and we have no income. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to successfully develop our business. These circumstances raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern as described in an explanatory paragraph to our independent auditors’ report on our audited financial statements, dated that are included in this Report. If we are unable to continue as a going concern, investors will likely lose all of their investments in our company. 4 Our future is dependent upon our ability to obtain financing. If we do not obtain such financing, we may have to cease our operating activities and investors could lose their entire investment. There is no assurance that we will operate profitably or will generate positive cash flow in the future. We will require additional financing in order to proceed with our business plan. We will also require additional financing to sustain our business operations if we are not successful in earning revenues. We currently do not have any arrangements for further financing and we may not be able to obtain financing when required. Our future is dependent upon our ability to obtain financing. If we do not obtain such financing, our business could fail and investors could lose their entire investment. Because we may never earn revenues from our operations, our business may fail. We expect to incur losses into the foreseeable future. We recognize that if we are unable to generate significant revenues, we will not be able to earn profits or continue operations. There is no history upon which to base any assumption as to the likelihood that we will prove successful, and we can provide no assurance that we will generate any revenues or ever achieve profitability. If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks, our business will fail and investors may lose all of their investment in our company. We have no operating history in the alternative energy industry and if we are not successful in initiating, developing or operating our future business, then investors may lose all of their investment in our company. We have no history of revenues in the alternative energy industry from operations and have no significant assets. We have yet to generate earnings and there can be no assurance that we will ever operate profitably. Our company has no recent operating history and is in the development stage. If our business is not successful and we are not able to operate profitably, then our stock may become worthless and investors may lose all of their investment in our company. Risks Associated With Our Common Stock Trading on the OTC Bulletin Board may be volatile and sporadic, which could depress the market price of our common stock and make it difficult for our stockholders to resell their shares. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board service of the National Association of Securities Dealers. Trading in stock quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board is often thin and characterized by wide fluctuations in trading prices, due to many factors that may have little to do with the company’s operations or business prospects. This volatility could depress the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to operating performance. Moreover, the OTC Bulletin Board is not a stock exchange, and trading of securities on the OTC Bulletin Board is often more sporadic than the trading of securities listed on a quotation system like Nasdaq or a stock exchange. Accordingly, shareholders may have difficulty reselling any of the shares. Trading of our stock may be restricted by the SEC's penny stock regulations, which may limit a stockholder's ability to buy and sell our stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors.” The term “accredited investor” refers generally to institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouse. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer's confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in and limit the marketability of our common stock. 5 We do not intend to pay dividends on any investment in the shares of stock of our company. We have never paid any cash dividends and currently do not intend to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future. Because we do not intend to declare dividends, any gain on an investment in our company will need to come through an increase in the stock’s price. This may never happen and investors may lose all of their investment in our company. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 