Item 1A. Risk Factors Our success is dependent on our principal technologies Our technology platforms, which include sensor technology, electron emission activities, nano-electronics, and functional nano-materials, are emerging technologies. Our financial condition and prospects are dependent upon licensing our intellectual property to others. Additional R&D needs to be conducted on many of our technologies before others can produce products using this technology. Market acceptance of products using our technology will be dependent upon the acceptance within the industries of those products of the quality, reliability, performance, efficiency, and breadth of application and cost-effectiveness of the products. There can be no assurances that these products will be able to gain commercial market acceptance. Products using our technology may not be accepted by the market Since our inception, we have focused our product development and R&D efforts on technologies that we believe will be a significant advancement over currently available technologies. With any new technology, there is a risk that the market may not appreciate the benefits or recognize the potential applications of the technology. Market acceptance of products using our technology will depend, in part, on the ability of our licensees to convince potential customers of the advantages of such products as compared to competitive products. It will also depend upon our ability to train manufacturers and others to use our products. Our technology development is in its early stages and the outcome is uncertain Our many applications of nanotechnologies, and certain products that use these technologies, will require significant additional development, engineering, testing and investment prior to commercialization. We are exploring the use of our technology in several different types of products. We have developed proof of concepts of potential products based on carbon nanotube technologies. In some cases, we are developing products jointly with others based on our technology. Upon successful completion of the development process, our development partners will be required to license our technology to produce and sell the products. Our development partners retain all rights to any intellectual property that they develop in the process. If any of the potential products that are being developed using our technologies are successfully developed, it may not be possible for potential licensees to produce these products in significant quantities at a price that is competitive with other similar products. At the present time, the only significant revenue that we receive related to our technology is related to reimbursed research expenditures, and development fees. These revenues are identified in our quarterly filings on Form 10-Q and our annual filings on Form 10-K as revenues of our Applied Nanotech, Inc. subsidiary in the related “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” sections. We also anticipate receiving up-front license fees in 2007. Our development partners have certain rights to jointly developed property and to license our technology We have committed to license our technology to our development partners upon completion of certain development projects that are in process. The terms of any such license have not yet been determined. One of our past development partners, a large Japanese display company, has paid us $2.0 million for research services and has the right to offset this payment against any future license fee payments due as a result of an existing license agreement that we have with this company. Our development partners in the HYFED™ project also have rights to any jointly developed property; however, any such jointly developed property would be based, at least in part, on our underlying technology and would require our partners to enter into an agreement with us. See also “Our technology development is in its early stages and the outcome is uncertain” above for further discussion. We have limited resources and our focus on particular products may result in our failure to capitalize on other opportunities We have limited resources available to successfully develop and commercialize our technology. As of February 28, 2007, we had 35 full-time employees. There is a wide array of potential applications for our technology and our limited resources require us to focus on specific product areas, while ignoring others. We focus our efforts on those projects for which we can obtain external funding since the availability of funding provides an external verification of the probability of commercial success of resulting products. Page 10 We may not be able to provide system integration In order to prove that our technologies work and will produce a complete product, we must ordinarily integrate a number of highly technical and complicated subsystems into a fully integrated prototype. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete the development work on some of our proposed products or that there will ultimately be any market for those products. Many products that may be developed using our technology will need to be integrated into end-user products by manufacturers of those products. Although we intend to develop products to be integrated into existing manufacturing capabilities, manufacturers may be required to make modifications to, or expand their manufacturing capabilities. Manufacturers may not elect to integrate products using our technology into their end-user products, or they may not devote adequate resources to modifying their manufacturing capabilities so that our technologies can be successfully incorporated into their end-user products. The complexity of integration may delay the introduction of products using our technology. Rapid technological changes could render our technology obsolete; and we may not remain competitive The industries in which we compete are highly competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change. Our existing and proposed products will compete with other existing products and may compete against other developing technologies. Development by others of new or improved products, processes or technologies may reduce the size of potential markets for our products. There is no assurance that other products, processes or technologies will not render our proposed products obsolete or less competitive. Many of our competitors have greater financial, managerial, distribution, and technical resources than we do. We will be required to devote substantial financial resources and effort to further R&D. There is no assurance that we will successfully differentiate our technology from our competitors' technology, or that we will adapt to evolving markets and technologies, develop new technologies, or achieve and maintain technological advantages. We have limited manufacturing capacity and experience We have no established commercial manufacturing facilities; and we have no intention of establishing a manufacturing facility related to our field emission technology, sensors, nanomaterials which include using composites, or any other aspects of our technology. We are focusing our efforts on licensing our intellectual property to others for use in their manufacturing processes. To the extent that any of the products that we develop require manufacturing facilities, we intend to contract with a qualified manufacturer. The health effects of nanotechnology are unknown There is no scientific agreement on the health effects of nanomaterials, but some scientists believe that in some cases, nanomaterials may be hazardous to an individual’s health or the environment. The science of nanotechnology is based on arranging atoms in such a way as to modify or build materials not made in nature; therefore, the effects are unknown. The Company takes appropriate precautions for its employees working with carbon nanotubes and believes that any health risks related to carbon nanotubes used in potential products can be minimized. Future research into the effects of nanomaterials in general, and carbon nanotubes in particular, on health and environmental issues may have an adverse effect on products using our technology. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business Our future success will depend on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel. Competition for such personnel may be intense. We may not be able to attract and retain all personnel necessary for the development of our business. In addition, much of the know-how and processes developed by us reside in our key scientific and technical personnel. The loss of the services of key scientific, technical and managerial personnel could have a material adverse effect on us until we are able to replace those personnel. Page 11 We have a history of net losses We have a history of net losses. From our inception through December 31, 2006, we incurred net losses of approximately $101 million. Our only profitable year was 1999, based on the strength of a license agreement of approximately $5.6 million signed in March 1999. We have incurred net income and losses as shown below: Year Ended December 31 Net Income (Loss) 1995 ($14,557,426) 1996 ($14,583,506) 1997 ($7,306,232) 1998 ($4,361,742) 1999 $474,599 2000 ($9,471,279) 2001 ($6,047,698) 2002 ($5,452,890) 2003 ($4,017,374) 2004 ($7,139,109) 2005 ($5,818,816) 2006 ($6,593,892) Although we expect to be profitable in the future, we may not be. Our profitability in 2007 is dependent on the signing of additional license agreements or obtaining additional research funding. We may, however, continue to incur additional operating losses for an extended period of time as we continue to develop our technologies. We do, however, expect the magnitude of those losses, if they continue, to decrease. We have funded our operations to date primarily through the proceeds from the sale of our equity securities and debt offerings. We are primarily a contract research and development organization and are dependent on license agreements and research funding to achieve profitability. In order to continue development of our technology, we anticipate that substantial research and development expenditures will continue to be incurred. We have no current royalty agreements producing significant revenue Our strategy is dependent on licensing our technology to other companies and obtaining royalties based on products that these licensees develop and sell. We have no plans to manufacture and sell any products ourselves, and as such, we have no product revenues. While we do have existing licenses, none of the licensees are producing products at the present time and therefore none of the licenses are producing current revenue. We expect to license our technology to be used in many applications. See additional discussion in the risk factor “Our technology development is in its early stages and the outcome is uncertain” above. It is our intention that all future license agreements will include a provision that requires the payment of ongoing royalties, although there is no assurance that will occur. We are dependent on the availability of materials and suppliers The materials used in producing current and future products using our technology are purchased from other vendors. We anticipate that the majority of raw materials used in products to be developed by us will be readily available to manufacturers. However, there is no assurance that the current availability of these materials will continue in the future, or if available, will be procurable at favorable prices. Page 12 Our revenues have been dependent on government contracts in the past In many years, a significant portion of our revenues are derived from contracts with agencies of the United States government. Following is a summary of those revenues for the past twelve years: Year Ended December 31 Revenues from Government Contracts Percentage of Total Revenue 1995 $1,009,000 33% 1996 $2,869,000 50% 1997 $854,000 24% 1998 $0 0% 1999 $0 0% 2000 $352,341 13% 2001 $466,680 15% 2002 $254,152 18% 2003 $339,790 44% 2004 $305,721 80% 2005 $208,211 37% 2006 $583,236 52% We currently have commitments for future government funding of approximately $2.3 million. We do not intend to seek any government funding unless it directly relates to achievement of our strategic objectives. Contracts involving the United States government are, or may be, subject to various risks including, but not limited to, the following: · Unilateral termination for the convenience of the government · Reduction or modification in the event of changes in the government's requirements or budgetary constraints · Increased or unexpected costs causing losses or reduced profits under fixed-price contracts or unallowable costs under cost reimbursement contracts · Potential disclosure of our confidential information to third parties · The failure or inability of the prime contractor to perform its prime contract in circumstances where we are a subcontractor · The failure of the government to exercise options provided for in the contract. · The right of the government to obtain a non-exclusive, royalty free, irrevocable world-wide license to technology developed under contracts funded by the government if we fail to continue to develop the technology We are exposed to litigation liability As described in more detail in Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are the plaintiff in two separate pieces of litigation. The first is against, Canon, Inc., and the second is against Till Keesmann. While there is risk associated with any litigation, we expect to prevail in both of these cases. If we were to not prevail in the Canon litigation, we would expect that would have no impact on our current financial condition beyond the additional costs incurred through the completion of the litigation. If we were not to prevail in the Keesmann litigation and Keesmann were allowed to terminate the existing agreement, we could lose any potential future revenue specifically associated with licensing the patents covered by the agreement. It would not; however, eliminate the need for any licensee of the Keesmann patents for use in the display industry to also license our patents as well. In addition, if Keesmann were allowed to terminate the patent, we would seek damages equal to the value that we bestowed upon the patent during the term of the license agreement. It is our opinion that the majority of the value of the Keesmann patent today is as a result of our work on the reissuance of the patent. We have lawsuits that arise in the normal course of business. We have been subject to litigation in the past and have settled litigation in the past that has in rare instances resulted in material payments. We expect all current lawsuits to be resolved with no material negative impact on our financial statements, and we are unaware of any other potential significant litigation. If we were to become subject to a judgment that exceeds our ability to pay, that judgment would have a material impact on our financial condition and could affect our ability to continue in existence. Page 13 We may have future capital needs and the source of that funding is uncertain We expect to continue to incur substantial expenses for R&D, product testing, and administrative overhead. The majority of R&D expenditures are for the development of our technologies. Some of the proposed products using our technology may not be available for commercial sale or routine use in the immediate future. Commercialization of existing and proposed products that would use our technology may require additional capital in excess of that currently available to us. A shortage of capital could prevent us from achieving profitability for an extended period of time. Because the timing and receipt of revenues from the sale of products using our technology will be tied to the achievement of certain product development, testing, manufacturing and marketing objectives, which cannot be predicted with certainty, there may be substantial fluctuations in our results of operations. If revenues do not increase as rapidly as anticipated, or if product development and testing require more funding than anticipated, we may be required to curtail our activities and/or seek additional financing from other sources. We may seek additional financing through the offer of debt, equity, or any combination of the two at any time, although we do not expect to seek any significant additional financing for the remainder of the year. We have developed a plan to allow us to maintain operations until we are able to sustain ourselves, and we believe our current cash levels are sufficient to fund operations until we reach that point. We have the existing resources, including expected revenue, to continue operations for a period through at least the end of 2007. Our plan is primarily dependent on raising funds through the licensing of our technology and revenue generated from performing contract research services. We intend to raise additional capital through debt or equity offerings, only if necessary. We expect to sign significant license and development contracts within the next year, although there is no assurance that this will occur. Our plan is based on current development plans, current operating plans, the current regulatory environment, historical experience in the development of electronic products and general economic conditions. Changes could occur which would cause certain assumptions on which this plan is based to be no longer valid. Our plan is primarily dependent on increasing revenues, licensing our technology, and raising additional funds through additional debt and equity offerings, only if necessary. If adequate funds were not available from operations or additional sources of financing, we may have to eliminate, or reduce substantially, expenditures for research and development, and testing of our products. We may have to obtain funds through arrangements with other entities that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or products. These actions could materially and adversely affect us. We may be unable to enforce or defend our ownership and use of proprietary technology Our ability to compete effectively with other companies will depend on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. Although we have been awarded patents, have filed applications for patents, or have licensed technology under patents that we do not own, the degree of protection offered by these patents or the likelihood that pending patents will be issued is uncertain. Competitors in both the United States and foreign countries, many of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investment in competing technologies, may already have, or may apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our licensees ability to make and sell our products using our technology. Competitors may also intentionally infringe on our patents. The defense and prosecution of patent suits is both costly and time-consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. In foreign countries, the expenses associated with such proceedings can be prohibitive. In addition, there is an inherent unpredictability in obtaining and enforcing patents in foreign countries. An adverse outcome in the defense of a patent suit could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties. Although third parties have not asserted infringement claims against us, there is no assurance that third parties will not assert such claims in the future. A major law firm has reviewed our patent portfolio and agreed to handle litigation related to certain of our patents on a contingency basis. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology, and there is no assurance that others will not independently develop the same or similar technology, or otherwise obtain access to our proprietary technology. To protect our rights in these areas, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how, or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how, or other proprietary information. While we have attempted to protect proprietary technology that we develop or acquire and will continue to attempt to protect future proprietary technology through patents, copyrights and trade secrets, we believe that our success will depend upon further innovation and technological expertise. Page 14 We have technologies subject to licenses As a licensee of certain research technologies through license and assignment agreements with Microelectronics and Computer Technology Corporation (“MCC”), we have acquired rights to develop and commercialize certain research technologies. In certain cases, we are required to pay royalties on the sale of products developed from the licensed technologies and fees on revenues from sublicensees. We also have to pay for the costs of filing and prosecuting patent applications. The agreement is subject to termination by either party, upon notice, in the event of certain defaults by the other party. We consider it unlikely that any royalty payments would be required to be made to MCC based on the substantial amounts of revenues that would have to be generated to offset the costs of maintaining the patents over the years. We have also licensed certain patents related to carbon nanotube technology from Till Keesmann (“the Keesmann patents”). We licensed 6 patents, including foreign filings, in 2000 in exchange for a payment of $250,000. The U.S. patent was reissued in August 2003. This reissuance significantly strengthened and reinforced this patent. Under the terms of the agreement, we are obligated to pay license fees equal to 50% of any royalties received by the Company specifically related to these patents. We are allowed to offset certain expenses, up to a maximum of $50,000 per year, against payments due under this agreement. The agreement also contains provisions related to minimum license fee payments, certain of which were deferred by Mr. Keesmann until after the reissuance of the patent was completed. A total of $1,000,000 of minimum payments has been made, with the last payment made in May 2004. No future minimum payments are due and the minimum payments made to date can be offset against future royalties due under the license agreement. No license agreements have yet been signed that involve the Keesmann patents. This license agreement is currently the subject of litigation as described in greater detail in Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 