Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of Full House. Development of new casinos is subject to many risks, some of which we may not be able to control — The opening of our proposed gaming facilities will depend on, among other things, obtaining adequate financing, the completion of construction, hiring and training of sufficient personnel and obtaining all regulatory licenses, permits, allocations and authorizations. The number of the approvals by federal and state regulators and other authorities needed to construct and open new gaming facilities is extensive, and any delay in obtaining or the failure to obtain these approvals could prevent or delay the completion of construction or opening of all or part of the gaming facilities or otherwise adversely affect the design and features of the proposed casinos. Even if approvals and financing are obtained, building a new casino is a major construction project that entails significant risks. These risks include, but are not limited to: • shortages of materials or skilled labor; • unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems; • work stoppages; • weather interference; • unanticipated cost increases; and • unavailability of construction equipment. Obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits, allocations and authorizations from regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay or prevent the construction or opening of any of these planned casino developments or otherwise affect their design. In addition, once developed, we may be unable to manage these casinos on a profitable basis or to attract a sufficient number of guests, gaming customers and other visitors to make the various operations profitable independently. We have a limited base of operations — Our principal operations currently consist of the Stockman’s Casino and the income from the management of one facility in Delaware, the Harrington Casino. These limited sources of income, combined with the potentially significant investment associated with any new managed facilities, may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly. Additionally, delays in the opening of any future casinos or our failure to open a new casino could also significantly adversely affect our profitability. Future growth in revenues and profits will depend on our ability to increase the number of our owned and managed casinos and facilities or develop new business opportunities. We may be unable to successfully acquire, develop or manage any additional casinos or facilities. Adverse changes in discretionary consumer spending would decrease our gaming revenues — The gaming industry is heavily dependent on discretionary consumer spending patterns. Our business is sensitive to numerous factors that affect discretionary consumer income, including adverse general economic conditions, changes in employment trends and levels of unemployment, increases in interest rates, acts of war, terrorist or political events, a significant rise in energy prices or other events or actions that may lead to a decrease in consumer confidence or a reduction in discretionary income. Declines in consumer spending within the gaming industry, especially for extended periods, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents We will need additional capital to fund development projects and pursue additional gaming opportunities — We are obligated to arrange on a best efforts basis up to $16 million in financing in connection with the Northern Cheyenne Tribe project. We may be unable to arrange the required additional financing on acceptable terms or at all. An inability to raise funds when needed might require us to delay, scale back or eliminate some of our planned expansion and development goals, and might require us to cease operations entirely. We have limited recourse against tribal assets — Development of our gaming opportunities will require us to make, arrange or guarantee substantial loans to tribes for the construction, development, equipment and operations of the relevant casino. We also make advances to tribes in connection with our development and management agreements. Our only recourse for collection of indebtedness from, and repayment of advances to, a tribe or money damages for breach or wrongful termination of such agreements is from revenues, if any, from prospective casino operations. Under our management agreements, the repayment of our loans made to a tribe and other distributions due from a tribe (including management fees) is subordinated in favor of other obligations of the tribe to other parties related to the casino operations. Accordingly, in the event of a default by a tribe under such obligations, our loans and other claims against the tribe will not be repaid until such default has been cured or the tribe’s senior casino-related creditors have been repaid in full. In addition, because we have not yet filed financing statements to perfect our security interest in the net revenues from the proposed casinos, the repayment of our loans and advances made to a tribe and other distributions due to us from a tribe may also be subordinated in favor of other creditors. The Indian tribes have sovereign powers and we may be unable therefore to enforce remedies against them — The tribes with which we have agreements are independent governments that have rights to tax persons and enterprises conducting business on their lands. They also have the right to require licenses and to impose other forms of regulation and regulatory fees on persons and businesses operating on their tribal lands. As a sovereign power, Indian tribes are generally subject only to federal regulation. States do not have the authority to regulate them, unless such authority has been specifically granted by the U.S. Congress. Thus, state laws generally do not apply to tribes or to activities taking place on tribal lands. In the absence of a conflicting federal or properly authorized state law, tribal law governs. Unless another law is specified, contracts with the tribes are governed by tribal law (and not state or federal law). In our agreements with these tribes, we generally have agreed that state law will govern the rights and obligations under these agreements. However, such provisions may be unenforceable particularly with respect to remedies against collateral located on tribal lands and they offer no protection against third-party claims against the collateral. If such provisions are determined to be unenforceable, then we may be unable to recover any amounts loaned or advanced to the tribes. The waiver of sovereign immunity and jurisdiction provisions in our agreements may not be enforceable and thus we may be further limited in recourse with respect to Indian tribes and their assets — Indian tribes enjoy sovereign immunity from un-consented suit similar to that of the states and the United States. In order to sue them (or one of their agencies or instrumentalities), the tribe must have clearly and explicitly waived its sovereign immunity with respect to the matter in dispute. The various Indian tribes that are parties to our management, development and related agreements have granted a limited waiver of their sovereign immunity only to the extent of providing for binding arbitration, judicial review, and enforcement of any arbitration award in any court of competent jurisdiction. In the event that the waiver of sovereign immunity is held to be ineffective, we could be precluded from judicially enforcing any rights or remedies against the tribes. Assuming that the tribes have clearly and explicitly waived their sovereign immunity, the question remains as to the forum in which a lawsuit or other action can be brought against them, particularly with respect to the enforcement of any arbitration award generally provided for under our agreements with the tribes. Since the parties to a transaction cannot confer jurisdiction on a court which does not otherwise have jurisdiction, it is possible that neither a federal nor a state court would have jurisdiction over a case relating to them. Federal courts are courts of limited jurisdiction and generally do not have jurisdiction to hear civil cases relating to Indians. Federal courts may have jurisdiction if a federal question is raised by the suit, which is unlikely in a typical contract suit or other enforcement action. Diversity of citizenship, another common basis for federal court jurisdiction, is not generally present in a suit against an Indian tribe because the tribe would not be considered a citizen of any state. Accordingly, in most commercial disputes with Indian tribes, the jurisdiction of the federal courts, which are courts of limited jurisdiction, may be difficult or impossible to obtain. State courts may also lack jurisdiction over suits brought by us against a tribe in the states in which we operate casinos. 16 Table of Contents The remedies available against the tribes also depend, at least in part, upon the rules of comity requiring initial exhaustion of remedies of tribal tribunals and, as to some judicial remedies, the tribe’s consent to jurisdictional provisions contained in the disputed agreements. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that where a tribal court exists, the jurisdiction in that forum must first be exhausted before any dispute can be properly heard by federal courts which would otherwise have jurisdiction. Where a dispute as to the existence of jurisdiction in the tribal forum exists, the tribal court must first rule as to the limits of its own jurisdiction. In this event, we could be subjected to substantial delay, cost and expense while seeking such remedies pursuant to the relevant tribe’s procedures of which currently there may be none and they are not obligated to create any. In addition, unless the decisions of the tribunals of the specific tribe violate applicable state or federal law, there might be no effective right to appeal such decisions in state or federal court. Many tribes have established tribal courts to hear cases relating to their tribes or arising on their reservations. Although a tribe’s constitution may permit the establishment of a tribal court system, they may not have one nor are they obligated to establish one. The tribes with which we have agreements have agreed to binding arbitration with respect to disputes arising from our agreements with them and have consented to the enforcement of any arbitration award in any court of competent jurisdiction which, as described above, may be a tribal court, pursuant to a limited waiver of their sovereign immunity. However, enforcement of an arbitration award against the tribes could be affected by disputes over the waiver of their sovereign immunity and will be subject to limitations imposed by federal law as described above. We are dependent on our key employees and may not find suitable replacements if our key personnel are no longer available to us — If any or all of our key employees were to terminate their relationship with us then we may be unable to find suitable replacements on a timely basis to manage our operations. We entered into employment agreements with certain key employees. We entered into two-year agreements with Andre Hilliou, Chief Executive Officer and Mark Miller, CFO; and entered into a one-year agreement with Wes Elam, Sr. VP of Operations. We also have a consulting agreement with Lee Iacocca, one of our directors. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel or our inability to hire or retain qualified personnel would make it difficult for us to implement our business plan. The gaming industry is subject to many risks, including adverse economic and political conditions and changes in the legislative and land use regulatory climate — Similar to investment in other entertainment enterprises, adverse changes in general and local economic conditions may adversely impact investments in the gaming industry. Examples of economic conditions subject to change include, among others: • competition in the form of other gaming facilities and entertainment opportunities; • changes in regional and local population and disposable income; • unanticipated increases in operating costs; • restrictive changes in zoning and similar land use laws and regulations, or in health, safety and environmental laws, rules and regulations; • risks inherent in owning, financing and developing real estate as part of our casino operations; • the inability to secure property and liability insurance to fully protect against all losses, or to obtain such insurance at reasonable costs; • inability to hire trained and knowledgeable managers and supervisors; • inability to hire a sufficient number of employees to maintain our desired level of operations; • seasonality; • changes or cancellations in local tourist, recreational or cultural events; and • changes in travel patterns or preferences (which may be affected by increases in gasoline prices, changes in airline schedules and fares, strikes, weather patterns or relocation or construction of highways). 17 Table of Contents Our management agreements for gaming facilities are of limited duration — We currently have management agreements with two tribes — one tribe has the requisite federal approval and one management agreement is with a commercial entity to operate gaming facilities. Our management agreement for the Harrington Casino in Delaware ends in August 2011. With respect to our management agreements for the proposed Indian gaming facilities, we are prohibited by law from having an ownership interest in any casino we manage for an Indian tribe. Federal law limits the term of management agreements with Indian tribes to seven years. If a management agreement is not renewed, then we will lose the revenues from that agreement which would negatively affect our results of operations. We may be unable to successfully compete with other gaming activities — The gaming industry is highly competitive. Gaming activities include traditional land-based casinos; river boat and dockside gaming; casino gaming on Indian land; state-sponsored lotteries and video poker in restaurants, bars and hotels; pari-mutuel betting on horse racing, dog racing and jai alai; sports bookmaking; Internet gaming; and card rooms. Our Delaware operations, Stockman’s Casino and the Indian-owned casinos that we are trying to develop and operate, compete or will compete, as the case may be, with all these forms of gaming, and any new forms of gaming that may be legalized in additional jurisdictions, as well as with other types of entertainment. Our operations may be unable to successfully compete with new or existing gaming operations within the vicinity of our operations or with gaming operations available on the Internet. We have pledged some of our assets as collateral — In connection with our acquisition of Stockman’s Casino, we pledged all of the capital stock and assets of Stockman’s Casino to the Nevada State Bank in connection with debt financing. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments under this loan, then the lender will be able to foreclose on these assets, and we may be required to scale back or curtail operations. In the event of liquidation, the lenders would have priority over our stockholders. Our current and future credit agreements impose restrictions on us which may prevent us from engaging in transactions that might benefit us, including responding to changing business and economic conditions or securing additional financing, if needed — Our reducing revolving loan agreement with Nevada State Bank contains customary events of default and restrictive covenants that require us to maintain specified levels of performance and financial ratios at our Stockman’s subsidiary and prohibit us from taking certain actions without satisfying the financial tests or obtaining the consent of the lenders. Additionally, the obligations are secured by all of the capital stock and assets of our Stockman’s subsidiary. The prohibited actions for Stockman’s include, among other things: • making investments in excess of specified amounts; • incurring additional indebtedness in excess of a specified amount; • paying cash dividends; • making capital expenditures in excess of a specified amount; • creating certain liens; • prepaying our other indebtedness; • engaging in certain mergers or combinations; and • engaging in transactions that would result in a change of control of our company. 18 Table of Contents Any future credit agreements in connection with other projects may contain similar restrictions. Should we be unable to comply with the terms and covenants of our credit agreements, we would be required to obtain modifications of the terms of these agreements or secure another source of financing to continue to operate our business. A default could result in the acceleration of our obligations under the credit agreements. In addition, these covenants may prevent us from engaging in transactions that benefit us, including responding to changing business and economic conditions or securing additional financing, if needed. Our business is capital intensive and, to the extent we need additional financing, we may not be able to obtain such financing at all or on favorable terms, which may decrease our profitability and liquidity. Naval Air Station Fallon is a significant part of the economy of Fallon, Nevada, the site of Stockman’s Casino — Stockman’s Casino is located in Fallon, Nevada, which is the location of Naval Air Station Fallon, the home of the Naval Strike and Air Warfare Center. The naval base is an important employer in the region and accounts for a significant part of the economy. Any decrease in operations or closure of the naval base would have a negative impact on the region’s economy, and in turn the future financial performance of Stockman’s Casino and our results of operations. We will need to make substantial financial and manpower investments in order to assess our internal controls over financial reporting, and our internal controls over financial reporting may be found to be deficient — Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management to assess its internal controls over financial reporting and requires auditors to attest to that assessment. Current regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission require us to include a management assessment in our Annual Report on this Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 and an auditor attestation beginning the following fiscal year. We have incurred costs of $0.3 million and $0.01 million in 2007 and 2008, respectively, implementing and responding to these requirements. In particular, the rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess its internal controls over financial reporting under Section 404 are complex and require significant documentation, testing and, if necessary, possible remediation. Our process of reviewing, documenting and testing our internal controls over financial reporting may cause a significant strain on our management, information systems and resources. We may be required to hire additional personnel and to use outside legal, accounting, and advisory services as we pursue completion of this effort. In addition, we will incur additional fees from our auditors as they perform the additional services necessary for them to provide their attestation. If we are unable to favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting when we are required to, or if our independent auditors are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on such assessment, then we may be required to change our internal controls over financial reporting to remediate deficiencies. In addition, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, causing our stock price to decline. We currently have five persons in our finance department. This limited number of staff will make it harder for us to comply with Section 404 and consequently a loss of any of our finance staff members may adversely affect our ability to comply with Section 404. Inability to obtain and maintain necessary approvals from various gaming regulators will limit our expansion and our operations — Our operations and proposed expansion depend on our ability to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals with various gaming regulators. We must maintain licenses from the Nevada Gaming Commission in connection with our Stockman’s Casino. Our management agreements with the Michigan Tribe and the Northern Cheyenne Tribe and any future management agreements we enter into with Indian tribes are subject to approval by the NIGC. In addition, in order to conduct Class III Gaming, which includes typical Las Vegas style games, as defined by the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act, a tribe must have entered into a gaming compact with the state in which the casino is to operate, which has been approved by the NIGC. The Northern Cheyenne Tribe’s gaming compact with the State of Montana was set to expire in June 2007. In April 2007, the tribe extended the existing agreement with the State of Montana, while continuing negotiations on a new Class III Gaming compact, which shall continue in effect until June 3, 2017, or until a new Class III compact is signed by the State and the tribe, whichever comes first. Since the existing Compact does not apply to our site, if the Northern Cheyenne Tribe is not able to successfully negotiate a Class III Gaming compact with the State of Montana, we will be unable to develop the proposed casino and recover the expenses we have already incurred in pursuing this project. Gaming facility ownership, management and operation is subject to many federal, state, provincial, tribal and/or local laws, regulations, and ordinances which are administered by particular regulatory agency or agencies in each jurisdiction. These laws, regulations and ordinances are different in each jurisdiction but generally deal with the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations and persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. Our inability to obtain or maintain required gaming regulatory approvals and licenses, including from the Nevada Gaming Commission and the NIGC, would materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. Changes in these laws, regulations or ordinances could adversely affect our future performance. 19 Table of Contents The proposed site for the Northern Cheyenne Tribe project requires approvals before development on the land can begin — The site for the Northern Cheyenne Tribe project was approved for gaming by the Secretary of the Interior as of October 28, 2008, however, the consent of the Governor of Montana is required which has not yet been obtained. If the Northern Cheyenne Tribe’s gaming compact with the State of Montana is not extended to include the site or a satisfactory site for the project is not approved, then we will be unable to develop the proposed casino and recover the expenses we have already incurred pursuing this project. Our management agreements with the various tribes are subject to governmental or regulatory modification — The NIGC has the power to require modifications to Indian management agreements under some circumstances or to void such agreements or secondary agreements, including loan agreements, if we fail to obtain the required approvals or to comply with the necessary laws and regulations. While we believe that our management agreements and related secondary documents meet the applicable requirements, the NIGC has the right to review each of these agreements and has the authority to reduce the term of a management agreement or the management fee or otherwise require modification of the management agreements and secondary agreements. Such changes would negatively affect our profitability. The rate of taxation on gaming profits may not be predictable — The legislatures in the various states in which we operate commercial casinos have the authority to set gaming tax rates. These state legislatures may revise their gaming taxes at any time and increase the tax rates applicable to our casinos. The compacts between the states and the tribes contain provisions with respect to fees due to the state from gaming facilities and these fees may be increased upon renewal of the compact. Additionally, from time to time, certain federal legislators have proposed the imposition of federal tax on gaming revenues. Any increase in tax rates or imposition of new taxes on gaming operations applicable to our casinos either at the state or federal level, or both, could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our controlling stockholder has significant influence over management — Mr. Michael Paulson, our controlling stockholder, beneficially owns (individually and as trustee of the Allen E. Paulson Living Trust) approximately 18.1% of our outstanding shares of common stock and our other executive officers and directors collectively beneficially own an additional 10.7% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, our controlling stockholder and our other executive officers and directors are able to exercise significant influence over our company, including, but not limited to, any stockholder approvals for the election of our directors and, indirectly, the selection of our senior management, new securities issuances, mergers and acquisitions and any amendments to our by-laws or charter. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company. Our stockholders may be deprived of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and it may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. When voting on such matters, our controlling stockholders’ interests may conflict with that of other stockholders. We have the right under our amended and restated charter to redeem our capital stock under certain circumstances — One of the requirements of gaming licenses in Nevada is that our directors, officers and those who own specified percentages of our capital stock must meet eligibility requirements for licenses. In order to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements in Nevada, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation allows us to repurchase shares of our capital stock from any stockholder if continued ownership of those shares by that stockholder would jeopardize any gaming license, approval, franchise, consent or management agreement held by us or any of our subsidiaries. Payment of the redemption price may be made by an unsecured promissory note. This redemption will apply even if the stockholder would not have chosen to sell the stock at such time. There are trading risks for low priced stocks — The Securities Enforcement and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 requires additional disclosure, relating to the market for penny stocks, in connection with trades in any stock defined as a penny stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted regulations that generally define a penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Unless an exception is available, the regulations require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith. 20 Table of Contents If our common stock is delisted from the NYSE Amex Exchange, then trading in our common stock will be covered by Rules 15-g-1 through 15-g-6 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under such rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must make a special written suitability determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to this transaction. Securities are exempt from these rules if the market price of the common stock is at least $5.00 per share. Our stock price may be volatile because of factors beyond our control and you may lose all or a part of your investment — The market price of our common stock has been volatile in recent years. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations after this offering and may decline below the offering price. Any of the following factors could affect the market price of our common stock: • our failure to meet financial analysts’ performance expectations; • changes in earnings estimates and recommendations by financial analysts; • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, renovations, joint ventures or capital commitments; • regulatory action or changes; or • general market, political and economic conditions. Our common stock is thinly-traded — For most of our history our common stock has been thinly-traded, both privately and on the various exchanges on which it has been listed, making it difficult for stockholders to sell shares of our common stock at a predictable price or at all. The volatility in the market price of our common stock may cause stockholders to encounter significant short term variations in the market price of the stock on account of factors beyond our control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As a smaller reporting company, the Company is not required to provide the information required by this item. 