Item 1A. Risk Factors Our success is dependent on our principal technologies Our technology platforms, which include nanocomposites, nanoelectronics, nanosensors, thermal management, and electron emission activities, are emerging technologies. Our financial condition and prospects are dependent upon commercializing our technology, licensing our intellectual property to others, and introduction of the technology into the marketplace. Additional R&D needs to be conducted on some of our technologies before products can be produced using this technology. Market acceptance of products using our technology will be dependent upon acceptance within the industries of those products of the quality, reliability, performance, efficiency, and breadth of application and cost-effectiveness of the products. There can be no assurances that these products will be able to gain commercial market acceptance. Products using our technology may not be accepted by the market Since our inception, we have focused our product development and R&D efforts on technologies that we believe will be a significant advancement over currently available technologies. With any new technology, there is a risk that the market may not appreciate the benefits or recognize the potential applications of the technology. Market acceptance of products using our technology will depend, in part, on our ability and the ability of our licensees and partners to convince potential customers of the advantages of such products as compared to competitive products. It will also depend upon our ability to train manufacturers and others to use our products. Our technology development is in its early stages and the outcome is uncertain Some of our applications of nanotechnologies, and certain products that use these technologies, will require significant additional development, engineering, testing and investment prior to commercialization. We are exploring the use of our technology in several different types of products. We have developed proof of concepts of potential products based on our technologies. In some cases, we are developing products jointly with others based on our technology. Upon successful completion of the development process, our development partners will likely be required to license our technology to produce and sell the products. Our development partners retain all rights to any intellectual property that they develop in the process. If any of the potential products that are being developed using our technologies are successfully developed, it may not be possible for us or potential licensees to produce these products in significant quantities at a price that is competitive with other similar products. At the present time, the only significant revenue that we receive related to our technology is related to reimbursed research expenditures and development fees. These revenues are identified in our quarterly filings on Form 10-Q and our annual filings on Form 10-K in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” sections. The first products using our technology were introduced in the marketplace in 2011, and we began receiving royalties as a result. We anticipate receiving up-front license fees and royalties in 2012. Our development partners have certain rights to jointly developed property and to license our technology In some cases, we have committed to license our technology to our development partners upon completion of certain development projects that are in process. The terms of all such licenses have not yet been finalized. Our development partners usually also have rights to any jointly developed property; however, any such jointly developed property would likely be based, at least in part, on our underlying technology which would require our partners to enter into a license agreement with us. See also “Our technology development is in its early stages and the outcome is uncertain” above for further discussion. In the case of Ishihara, they have the right to use our jointly owned technology without license and the existing license agreement is only to preserve their exclusivity. We have limited resources and our focus on particular products may result in our failure to capitalize on other opportunities We have limited resources available to successfully develop and commercialize our technology. As of February 28. 2012, we had 32 full-time and part-time employees. There is a wide array of potential applications for our technology, and our limited resources require us to focus on specific product areas, while ignoring others. We focus our efforts on those projects for which we can obtain external funding since the availability of funding provides an external verification of the probability of commercial success of resulting products. Page 11 We may not be able to provide system integration In order to prove that our technologies work and will produce a complete product, we may be required to integrate a number of highly technical and complicated subsystems into a fully integrated prototype. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete the development work on some of our proposed products or that there will ultimately be any market for those products. Many products that may be developed using our technology will need to be integrated into end-user products by manufacturers of those products. Although we intend to develop products to be integrated into existing manufacturing capabilities, manufacturers may be required to make modifications to, or expand their manufacturing capabilities. Manufacturers may elect not to integrate products using our technology into their end-user products, or they may not devote adequate resources to modifying their manufacturing capabilities so that our technologies can be successfully incorporated into their end-user products. The complexity of integration may delay the introduction of products using our technology. Rapid technological changes could render our technology obsolete, and we may not remain competitive The industries in which we compete are highly competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change. Our existing and proposed products will compete with other existing products and may compete against other developing technologies. Development by others of new or improved products, processes or technologies may reduce the size of potential markets for our products. There is no assurance that other products, processes or technologies will not render our proposed products obsolete or less competitive. Many of our competitors have greater financial, managerial, distribution, and technical resources than we do. We will be required to devote substantial financial resources and effort to further R&D. There is no assurance that we will successfully differentiate our technology from our competitors’ technology, or that we will adapt to evolving markets and technologies, develop new technologies, or achieve and maintain technological advantages. We have limited manufacturing capacity and experience We have no established commercial manufacturing facilities, and we have no intention of establishing a large scale manufacturing facility on our own. We are focusing our efforts on licensing our intellectual property to others for use in their manufacturing processes, or working with strategic partners that have manufacturing capabilities. To the extent that any of the products that we develop require significant manufacturing facilities, we intend to either contract with a qualified manufacturer, or enter into a joint venture or other similar arrangement. We have established a pilot manufacturing facility for our inks, nanocomposites, and thermal management materials. Should the development proceed to the point where a production facility is required, we intend to license or contract with others for production. The health effects of nanotechnology are unknown There is no scientific agreement on the health effects of nanomaterials, but some scientists believe that in some cases, nanomaterials may be hazardous to an individual’s health or the environment. The science of nanotechnology is based on arranging atoms in such a way as to modify or build materials not found naturally in nature; therefore, the effects are unknown. The Company takes appropriate precautions for its employees working with carbon nanotubes and believes that any health risks related to carbon nanotubes used in potential products can be minimized. Future research into the effects of nanomaterials in general, and carbon nanotubes in particular, on health and environmental issues may have an adverse effect on products using our technology. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business Our future success will depend on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel. Competition for such personnel may be intense. We may not be able to attract and retain all personnel necessary for the development of our business. In addition, some of the know-how and processes developed by us reside in our key scientific and technical personnel. The loss of the services of key scientific, technical and managerial personnel could have a material adverse effect on us until we are able to replace those personnel. Page 12 We have a history of net losses We have a history of net losses, although these losses have been decreasing, and in 2010 we were profitable. From our inception through December 31, 2011, we incurred net losses of approximately $113 million. Although we were profitable in 2010, and we expect to be profitable in 2012, there is no guarantee that we will be profitable in the future. We have incurred net income and losses for the ten preceding years as shown below: Year Ended December 31 Net Income (Loss) 2002 ($5,452,890) 2003 ($4,017,374) 2004 ($7,139,109) 2005 ($5,818,816) 2006 ($6,593,892) 2007 ($4,256,891) 2008 ($2,685,867) 2009 ($2,152,605) 2010 411,304 2011 ($2,570,248) Although we expect to be profitable in the future, we may not be. Our profitability in 2012 is dependent upon a combination of signing of additional license agreements, obtaining additional research funding, product sales by our licensees, and product sales by us. We may, however, continue to incur additional operating losses for an extended period of time as we continue to develop our technologies. We do, however, expect the magnitude of those losses, if they continue, to decrease. Currently, we are primarily a contract research and development organization and are dependent on license agreements and research funding to achieve profitability. In order to continue development of our technology, we anticipate that substantial research and development expenditures will continue to be incurred. We have funded our operations to date primarily through the proceeds from the sale of our equity securities and debt offerings. Our auditors have included a going concern paragraph in their opinion on our financial statements, which could impact our ability to obtain financing, if needed. We expect to be profitable in 2012 and do not anticipate the need for any financing for basic operating purposes; however, we could raise capital for expansion or to accelerate commercialization of our technologies. We have only one current royalty agreement producing significant revenue At the present time, our strategy is dependent on licensing our technology to other companies and obtaining royalties based on products that these licensees develop and sell. We are beginning to sell certain products ourselves; however, we have no plans to manufacture any products in significant quantities ourselves, and as such at the present time, and we have limited product revenues. We may enter into joint ventures or other business arrangements where we collaborate with others to sell or manufacture products. While we do have existing licenses, only one of the licensees are producing products at the present time, and therefore at the present time, we are receiving limited royalty revenue. Successful implementation of our strategy requires additional royalty bearing license agreements, as well as product sales by us. We expect at least two additional licensees to introduce products into the marketplace in 2012; however, there is no guarantee that products will be introduced, or that they will be successful. We expect to license our technology to be used in many applications. See additional discussion in the risk factor above entitled “Our technology development is in its early stages and the outcome is uncertain”. It is our intention that all future license agreements will include a provision that requires the payment of ongoing royalties, although there is no assurance that will occur. Page 13 We are dependent on the availability of materials and suppliers The materials used in producing current and future products using our technology are purchased from other vendors. We anticipate that the majority of raw materials used in products to be developed by us will be readily available to manufacturers. However, there is no assurance that the current availability of these materials will continue in the future, or if available, will be procurable at favorable prices. Our revenues have been dependent on government contracts in the past In many years, a significant portion of our revenues were derived from contracts with agencies of the United States government. Following is a summary of those revenues for the past ten years: Year Ended December 31 Revenues from Government Contracts Percentage of Total Revenue 2002 $254,152 18% 2003 $339,790 44% 2004 $305,721 80% 2005 $208,211 37% 2006 $583,236 52% 2007 $2,328,010 58% 2008 $2,295,887 58% 2009 $1,694,082 42% 2010 $2,920,030 36% 2011 $2,956,717 46% We currently have commitments for future government funding of approximately $1.9 million. We do not intend to seek any government funding unless it directly relates to achievement of our strategic objectives. Contracts involving the United States government are, or may be, subject to various risks including, but not limited to, the following: · Unilateral termination for the convenience of the government · Reduction or modification in the event of changes in the government’s requirements or budgetary constraints · Increased or unexpected costs causing losses or reduced profits under fixed-price contracts or unallowable costs under cost reimbursement contracts · Potential disclosure of our confidential information to third parties · The failure or inability of the prime contractor to perform its prime contract in circumstances where we are a subcontractor · The failure of the government to exercise options provided for in the contract · The right of the government to obtain a non-exclusive, royalty free, irrevocable world-wide license to technology developed under contracts funded by the government if we fail to continue to develop the technology. In addition, the current political environment and current budget deficits may result in cuts in government research funding, which could have a negative impact on us. We may be exposed to litigation liability We have had lawsuits that arise in the normal course of business. We have been subject to litigation in the past and have settled litigation in the past that has in rare instances resulted in material payments. We expect all current lawsuits to be resolved with no material negative impact on our financial statements, and we are unaware of any other potential significant litigation. If we were to become subject to a judgment that exceeds our ability to pay, that judgment would have a material impact on our financial condition and could affect our ability to continue in existence. Page 14 We may have future capital needs and the source of that funding is uncertain We expect to continue to incur substantial expenses for R&D, product testing, and administrative overhead. The majority of R&D expenditures are for the development of our technologies. Some of the proposed products using our technology may not be available for commercial sale or routine use in the immediate future. Commercialization of existing and proposed products that would use our technology may require additional capital in excess of that currently available to us. A shortage of capital could prevent us from achieving profitability for an extended period of time. Because the timing and receipt of revenues from the sale of products using our technology will be tied to the achievement of certain product development, testing, manufacturing and marketing objectives, which cannot be predicted with certainty, there may be substantial fluctuations in our results of operations. If revenues do not increase as rapidly as anticipated, or if product development and testing requires more funding than anticipated, we may be required to curtail our activities and/or seek additional financing from other sources. We may seek additional financing through the offer of debt, equity, or any combination of the two at any time. We have developed a plan to allow us to maintain operations until we are able to sustain ourselves. We achieved profitability in 2010, and while we incurred a loss in 2011, we expect to be profitable in 2012. We have the existing resources, including expected revenues, to continue operations for a period through at least the end of 2012. New license agreements, or other agreements, may extend that period. Our plan is primarily dependent on raising funds through the licensing of our technology, product sales, and revenue generated from performing contract research services. We expect to sign significant license and development contracts within the next year, although there is no assurance that this will occur. Our plan is based on current development plans, current operating plans, the current regulatory environment, historical experience in the development of electronic products and general economic conditions. Changes could occur which would cause certain assumptions on which this plan is based to be no longer valid. Our plan is primarily dependent on increasing revenues, licensing our technology, selling products, and raising additional funds through additional debt and equity offerings, only if necessary. If adequate funds were not available from operations or additional sources of financing, we may have to eliminate, or reduce substantially, expenditures for research and development, and testing of our products. We may have to obtain funds through arrangements with other entities that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or products. These actions could materially and adversely affect us. We may be unable to enforce or defend our ownership and use of proprietary technology Our ability to compete effectively with other companies will depend on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. Although we have been awarded patents, have filed applications for patents, or have licensed technology under patents that we do not own, the degree of protection offered by these patents or the likelihood that pending patents will be issued is uncertain. Competitors in both the United States and foreign countries, many of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investment in competing technologies, may already have, or may apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our licensee’s ability to make and sell our products using our technology. Competitors or potential licensees may also intentionally infringe on our patents. The defense and prosecution of patent suits is both costly and time-consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. In foreign countries, the expenses associated with such proceedings can be prohibitive. In addition, there is an inherent unpredictability in obtaining and enforcing patents in foreign countries. An adverse outcome in the defense of a patent suit could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties. Although third parties have not asserted infringement claims against us, there is no assurance that third parties will not assert such claims in the future. In the past, a major law firm has reviewed our patent portfolio and agreed to handle litigation related to certain of our patents on a contingency basis. Changes in patent laws could have a negative impact on us New legislation, regulations, or rules related to obtaining or enforcing patents could significantly increase our operating costs and make it more difficult to enforce or license our patents. If new legislation, regulations, or rules are implemented by Congress, the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or the courts that impact the patent application process, the patent enforcement process, or the rights of patent holders, these changes could negatively affect our expenses and potential revenue. Page 15 We rely on unpatented proprietary technology We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology, and there is no assurance that others will not independently develop the same or similar technology, or otherwise obtain access to our proprietary technology. To protect our rights in these areas, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how, or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how, or other proprietary information. While we have attempted to protect proprietary technology that we develop or acquire and will continue to attempt to protect future proprietary technology through patents, copyrights and trade secrets, we believe that our success will depend upon further innovation and technological expertise. We have technologies subject to licenses In May 2000, we licensed the rights to 6 carbon nanotube patents from Till Keesmann in exchange for a payment of $250,000 payable in shares of our common stock. Under the terms of the agreement, we received the exclusive right to license these patents to others, and we were obligated to pay license fees equal to 50% of any royalties received by us specifically related to these patents to Mr. Keesmann. The agreement contained provisions related to minimum license fee payments, totaling $1,000,000, all of which have been made, and as a result, we received an irrevocable license to use these patents for the life of the patents. Despite significant efforts, no license revenues were ever received for these patents and in 2008, the Keesmann agreement was amended as part of a litigation settlement. As part of that amendment, we agreed to return the licensing rights to Mr. Keesmann in May 2010 if minimum payments equal to $1.0 million were not paid to Mr. Keesmann by that date. No license revenue was received by that date, and we made the conscious decision not to make the minimum payment and allowed the licensing rights to revert to Mr. Keesmann in May 2010. We retain our irrevocable right to use the patents and we are entitled to 50% of any royalties generated by those patents, up to a maximum of $1.2 million. Given the limited remaining life on these patents, we believe it is unlikely that we will receive any royalties from this patent. Public perception(s) of ethical and social issues may discourage the use of nanotechnology Nanotechnology has received both positive and negative publicity and is increasingly the subject of public discussion and debate. Governments may, for social or health purposes, prohibit or regulate the use of nanotechnology. This may restrict our ability to license our technology, or the ability of our licensees to sell their products. Our business is subject to changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure Because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal and state entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. These entities have continued to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Complying with these new regulations has resulted in, and is likely to continue to result in, increased general & administrative costs and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating and other business activities to compliance activities. Our business is subject to economic uncertainties A portion of our research revenues come from private sources, primarily large multinational corporations. In addition, our strategy is dependent upon the receipt of royalties related to the introduction of new products by these and other companies. During times of extreme economic uncertainty, some companies may cut back on spending on research projects, or delay the introduction of new products. Page 16 We have limited resources We are a small company with limited human and financial resources. Most of our competitors are larger than us with greater financial strength. Our limited resources may prevent us from moving as quickly as the market requires, or from taking advantage of all the opportunities that we have available to us on a timely basis. Other competitors may move more quickly and gain an advantage by establishing a presence in the market place before us. Our licensees may have conflicting priorities The products that are produced by our licensees using technologies that they have licensed from us generally make up only part of their overall business. There may be other factors besides the product itself that affect product introduction and sales by our licensees. These considerations may include other products sold by the licensee, financial commitments to other product lines, marketing considerations, financial considerations, desire to minimize royalties, and other factors. In addition, licensees may decide they no longer wish to maintain exclusivity and not make payments required to do so, may make improvements to the products such that they no longer believe they use our technology, may intentionally infringe on our technology for selected products, or may underreport sales of the products to minimize royalties. We have limited experience with product sales We are increasing our focus on product sales and this is an important part of our business plan, however; we have limited experience in the sale of products. Our experience in generating revenue is through research and development agreements and license agreements. Product sales require a different skill set and will require us to hire new personnel to implement our business plan. We may not be successful in our transition to a product sales model. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 