ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Much of the information included in this annual report includes or is based upon estimates, projections or other “forward-looking statements.” Such forward-looking statements any include projections or estimates made by us and our management in connection with our business operations. While these forward-looking statements, and any assumptions upon which they are based, are made in good faith and reflect our current judgment regarding the direction of our business, actual results will almost always vary, sometimes materially, from any estimates, predictions, projections, assumptions, or other future performance suggested herein. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of such statements. Such estimates, projections or other “forward-looking statements” involve various risks and uncertainties as outlined below. We caution readers of this annual report that important factors in some cases have affected and, in the future, could materially affect actual results and cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed in any such estimates, projections or other “forward-looking statements.” In evaluating us, our business and any investment in our business, readers should carefully consider the following factors. We have limited operating history that you can use to evaluate us and therefore we may not survive if we meet some of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complications and delays frequently encountered by a start-up company . We essentially ceased active business in 1997 and have been reviewing business opportunities since February 2009 when we hired new officers and directors of the Company To date, we have focused our attention on seeking product and technology licensing, acquisitions and business opportunities. Accordingly, you can evaluate our business, and therefore our future prospects, based only on a limited operating history. You must consider our prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties encountered by start-up companies. As a start-up company, we can provide no assurances that we will be able to make the necessary steps to achieve profitability in the future, such as expanding our customer base. We are subject to all the substantial risks inherent in the commencement of a new business enterprise with new management. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to successfully generate revenues or operate profitably. We have limited business history for you to analyze or to aid you in making an informed judgment as to the merits of an investment in our securities. Any investment in our common stock should be considered a high risk investment because you will be placing funds at risk in an unseasoned start-up company with unforeseen costs, expenses, competition and other problems to which start-up ventures are often subject. As we have such a limited history of operation, you will be unable to assess our future operating performance or our future financial results or condition by comparing these criteria against our past or present equivalents. We will require additional funds to achieve our current business strategy. Our inability to obtain additional financing will inhibit our ability to expand or even maintain our business operations. We will need to raise additional funds through debt or equity financing to achieve our current business strategy. The financing we need may not be available when needed. Even if this financing is available, it may be on terms that we deem unacceptable or are materially adverse to your interests with respect to dilution of book value, dividend preferences, liquidation preferences, or other terms. Our inability to obtain financing will inhibit our ability to implement our development strategy, and as a result, could require us to diminish or suspend our development strategy and possibly cease our operations. If we are unable to obtain financing on reasonable terms, we could be forced to delay, scale back or eliminate certain product and service development programs. In addition, such inability to obtain financing on reasonable terms could have a negative effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition to such extent that we are forced to restructure, file for bankruptcy, sell assets or cease operations, any of which could put your investment dollars at significant risk. 3 We expect to experience significant and rapid growth in the scope and complexity of our business if our business strategy gains acceptance in the market. If we are unable to hire additional staff to handle engineering, sales and marketing of our products and services and manage our operations, our growth could harm our future business results and may strain our managerial and operational resources. If our business gains acceptance in the market, we expect to experience significant and rapid growth in the scope and complexity of our business. We will need to hire staff to market our products and services and perform finance and accounting functions. We will be required to hire a broad range of personnel in order to successfully advance our operations. This growth is likely to place a strain on our management and operational resources. If we fail to develop and implement effective systems, or hire and retain sufficient personnel for the performance of all of the functions necessary to effectively service and manage our future relationships, or fail to manage growth effectively, our business will fail and you will lose your entire investment in our company. If we are unable to hire and retain key personnel, then we may not be able to implement our business plan. We depend on the services of our officers and directors, Christian Soderquist and George Ecker. Our success depends on the continued efforts of these individuals to manage our business operations. The loss of the services of either of these individuals could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our success in expanding our business operations is largely dependent on our ability to hire highly qualified personnel. In addition, we may lose employees or consultants that we hire due to higher salaries and fees being offered by competitors or other businesses in the industry. Our managers’ control of our company may prevent you from causing a change in the course of our operations and may affect the market price of our common stock. Mr. Soderquist and Mr. Ecker each beneficially own approximately 35% of our common stock and together control the majority of the Company’s voting shares. Accordingly, for as long as they continue to own more than 50% of our common stock, they will be able to elect a majority or all of our board of directors, control all matters that require a stockholder vote (such as mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations) and exercise a significant amount of influence over our management and operations. Therefore, your ability to cause a change in the course of our operations may be impeded. This concentration of ownership could result in a reduction in value to the common stock you own and could have the effect of preventing us from undergoing a change of control in the future. We may pursue strategic acquisitions and investments that could have an adverse effect on our business if they are unsuccessful. As part of our business strategy, we intend to acquire companies, and acquire or license technologies and product lines. There is the risk that our valuation assumptions and models for any acquired product, business or technology that we may acquire will be overly optimistic or inaccurate or that customers do not demand the products or services to the extent we expect, the technology does not function as we expect, that or the technology we acquire is the subject of infringement or trade secret claims by third parties. The identification of acquisition candidates is difficult and we may not correctly assess the risks related to such acquisitions and investments. In particular, our determinations and assessments of technology candidates involve assessments of the financial performance of the candidates and past financial performance that we observe may not be indicative of future financial performance. In addition, acquisitions could be effected on terms less satisfactory to us than expected. If these risks materialize, the benefit that we derive from businesses, technologies, products or services that we acquire or license may be less than we expect, with the result that our operating losses could increase. We have a history of losses and have a deficit, which raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to successfully develop our business. These circumstances raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern as described in an explanatory paragraph to our independent auditors’ report on our audited financial statements, dated that are included in this Report. If we are unable to continue as a going concern, investors will likely lose all of their investments in our company. 4 Because we may never become profitable from our operations, our business may fail. We expect to incur losses into the foreseeable future. We recognize that if we are unable to generate significant revenues, we will not be able to earn profits or continue operations. There is no history upon which to base any assumption as to the likelihood that we will prove successful, and we can provide no assurance that we will generate any revenues or ever achieve profitability. If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks, our business will fail and investors may lose all of their investment in our company. Risks Associated With Our Common Stock Trading on the OTC Bulletin Board may be volatile and sporadic, which could depress the market price of our common stock and make it difficult for our stockholders to resell their shares. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board service of the National Association of Securities Dealers. Trading in stock quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board is often thin and characterized by wide fluctuations in trading prices, due to many factors that may have little to do with the company’s operations or business prospects. This volatility could depress the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to operating performance. Moreover, the OTC Bulletin Board is not a stock exchange, and trading of securities on the OTC Bulletin Board is often more sporadic than the trading of securities listed on a quotation system like Nasdaq or a stock exchange. Accordingly, shareholders may have difficulty reselling any of the shares. Trading of our stock may be restricted by the SEC's penny stock regulations, which may limit a stockholder's ability to buy and sell our stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors.” The term “accredited investor” refers generally to institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouse. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer's confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in and limit the marketability of our common stock. 5 We do not intend to pay dividends on any investment in the shares of stock of our company. We have never paid any cash dividends and currently do not intend to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future. Because we do not intend to declare dividends, any gain on an investment in our company will need to come through an increase in the stock’s price. This may never happen and investors may lose all of their investment in our company. We recently became aware of certain matters relating to the Company’s 2003 reincorporation transaction. In connection with a review of previous corporate transactions, the Company recently became aware of administrative errors related to the Company's change of domicile from California to Nevada at the end of 2003. At the time of all of the events described below, the Company was a shell company with no cash (or nominal cash), no business and a small amount of liabilities consisting primarily of accrued obligations and notes to a related party. Further, the majority shareholder, and the person who was the president of Octus California at the time of the events described below, have affirmed in writing to the Company that their vote, support and intention was to enact the events. As reflected in previous filings by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”), in December 2001, Octus, which was then incorporated in California (sometimes referred to as “Octus California”), distributed a proxy statement to its shareholders in connection with its annual meeting of stockholders to be held on December 29, 2001 (the “2001 Meeting”), soliciting approval for a proposal to change the state of incorporation of Octus from California to Nevada. The proxy statement indicated that the change of domicile would be accomplished by merging Octus California into a newly formed subsidiary, Octus Nevada. At the time, one shareholder, Grupo Dynastia, S.A., a foreign corporation, held approximately 56% of the outstanding voting stock as of the record date of the meeting. Grupo Dynastia has represented to management of the Company in writing that it supported the reincorporation and change of domicile. In addition, Grupo Dynastia and the person who at the time was the president of Octus California have represented to management of the Company in writing that Grupo Dynastia delivered to Octus California in advance of the 2001 Meeting a signed form of proxy appointing the president of Octus as proxy for the shareholder to vote the shareholder’s shares in favor of the reincorporation and the other proposals at the 2001 Meeting. However, the Company does not have in its records evidence that an executed proxy was received by Octus California from Grupo Dynastia or taken into account at the meeting. In December 2003, the Company decided to effect the reincorporation transaction that it believed had been approved at the 2001 shareholder meeting. A new corporation was incorporated in Nevada named Octus, Inc. (“Octus Nevada”). All assets and liabilities of Octus California, which consisted of the nominal cash and minimal liabilities described below, were transferred to Octus Nevada on or before December 31, 2003 as part of the change of corporate domicile. However, for reasons of administrative inadvertence, articles of merger were not filed in either Nevada or California. In January 2004, dissolution and winding up certificates were filed with the California Secretary of State for Octus California, reciting that Octus California had elected to wind up and dissolve; that the election was made by the vote of at least 5.8 million shares, representing in excess of approximately 90% of the outstanding shares of the Company; that the affairs of Octus California had been completely wound up; that the known debts and liabilities of the company had been paid or provided for; and that all known assets of the company had been distributed to the Octus California shareholders. The person who was the president of Octus California at the time of the events described above has affirmed in writing that these filings were intended to be part of the process of implementing the reincorporation merger transaction. At the time, Grupo Dynastia owned common stock and preferred stock of Octus California representing in excess of 97.6% of the voting power of the outstanding shares of Octus California. Grupo Dynastia has represented to management of the Company in writing that it supported and approved of the reincorporation transaction in December 2003, regardless whether it was effected by means of a merger, transfer of assets and liabilities or other mechanism. On March 23, 2004, the Company filed its Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC with respect to the year ended December 31, 2003 (the “2003 Form 10-K”), indicating that it was a Nevada corporation and including the following disclosure: “On December 29, 2001, a majority of the shareholders voted to change the Company's state of incorporation from California to Nevada. In December 2003, this change was completed and the Company became a Nevada corporation.” According to the 2003 Form 10-K, at December 31, 2003, Octus was not engaged in any business activities, its total assets consisted of $22 of cash, and its liabilities consisted of accounts payable and accrued expenses of $1,238, accounts payable and accrued expenses to related parties of $16,138, and notes payable to a related party, Grupo Dynastia, of $144,271. According to the 2003 Form 10-K, the aggregate market value of shares held by non-affiliates of the Company as of March 18, 2004, was $31,676, and the actual value of those shares may have been even less in light of, among other factors, the Company’s liabilities and lack of any business and cash assets. Implementing what management of the Company believed was the merger transaction; Octus Nevada subsequently issued one share of Octus Nevada for each share of Octus California held by each person who was a former shareholder of Octus California. If not part of the merger transaction, the Company believes the issuance of shares was part of the distribution by Octus California of its remaining assets, consisting of the shares issued by Octus Nevada, to its shareholders as part of the process of winding up Octus California. Accordingly, there was no change in ownership of shares of the Company as the result of the redomicile. In addition, no shareholder has communicated with the Company or its officers in any way concerning claims or complaints relating to the above matters. 6 The Company has submitted for filing with the Nevada Secretary of State, articles of merger reflecting the merger transaction that the Company believed occurred at the end of 2003. However, the Company cannot provide any assurances concerning the legal effect, if any, of belatedly filing such articles of merger at such time in the circumstances described above. The foregoing matters may give rise to liabilities, claims or regulatory actions under federal or state laws, including without limitation relating to whether sufficient shareholder approval was obtained for the reincorporation transaction, whether the issuance of shares of Octus Nevada in the reincorporation transaction complied with federal and state securities laws, whether the foregoing matters affect Octus Nevada's status as a successor issuer under federal securities laws, and other related matters. The Company can give no assurance as to whether any such liabilities, claims or regulatory actions, including actions by the Commission or state regulatory authorities, may arise in the future or the outcome of any such liabilities, claims or regulatory actions on the Company's business and previously reported or current financial statements. An adverse outcome in any such claim or proceeding could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial position and results of operations. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 