Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors related to our current business operations before making a decision to invest in our common stock. Additional risks of which we are not yet aware or that we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely impair us or our operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business may suffer, the trading price of common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We currently are focusing our development efforts on only one product candidate, TPI 287, and we will have limited prospects for successful operations if TPI 287 does not prove successful in clinical trials or is never commercialized because of the costs of continuing development or for other reasons. In 2005, we closed our Genomics division. In 2006, we terminated our program relating to Huntington’s Disease, terminated development of TPI 284 and also the study of quassinoid analogs. These actions have permitted us to focus our development efforts primarily on the development of TPI 287, which is still in Phase I clinical trials. We have no products that are approved for commercial sale. TPI 287 will require extensive additional clinical evaluation, regulatory review, marketing efforts and significant investment before we receive any revenues from it, if ever. We currently do not have the capital resources necessary to bring any of our product candidates through to commercial approval, and we do not expect TPI 287 or any of our other product candidates or technologies to be commercially available for several years. We believe that the proceeds received from the Private Placement will only be sufficient to permit us to generate preliminary Phase II data on TPI 287 in a number of tumor types. Our efforts may not lead to commercially successful products for a number of reasons, including the inability to be proven safe and effective in clinical trials, the lack of regulatory approvals or obtaining regulatory approvals that are narrower than we seek, inadequate financial resources to complete the development and commercialization of our product candidates or the lack of acceptance in the marketplace. Given the limited focus on one product candidate, if TPI 287 does not prove successful in clinical trials or is not commercialized because we have insufficient resources for continued development for any other reason, we may be required to suspend or discontinue our operations and one could lose their entire investment. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations when needed, we could be forced to discontinue our operations. Pharmaceutical development is a costly and time-consuming process. We have limited resources and we will have to raise substantial additional financing in the future to carry out our research and development activities. The amount and timing of future capital expenditures will depend upon many factors, including: · the development of new products and technologies; · the acquisition of new products and technologies; · the nature of our relationship with any strategic partners that we are able to attract; · the progress of our research and development programs; · competing technological and marketing developments; · changes in facilities; and · changes in staffing levels. Our business will require substantial additional investment that we have not yet secured. We cannot be sure how much we will need to spend in order to develop, market and manufacture new products and 8 technologies in the future. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts on research and development, including amounts spent on conducting clinical trials for our product candidates. Further, we will not have sufficient resources to develop fully any new products or technologies unless we are able to raise substantial additional financing on acceptable terms. We could also be required to seek strategic partners at an earlier stage than might be preferable and/or on less favorable terms than might be otherwise available. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. In addition, any new securities issued might have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the securities held by stockholders. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of debt, we might become subject to restrictive covenants or we may subject our assets to security interests. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, we may be required to relinquish some rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Our failure to raise capital when needed would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and could force us to reduce or discontinue our operations at some time in the future. Our product candidates and technologies are in an early state of development and there is a high risk that they may never be commercialized because of the costs of continuing development or for other reasons. We do not currently have any products that have received regulatory approval for commercial sale, and we face the risk that none of our product candidates will ever receive regulatory approval. All of our product candidates are in early stages of development. Our existing product candidates will require extensive additional clinical evaluation, regulatory review, marketing efforts and significant investment before they result in any revenues. We currently do not have the funds to bring any of our product candidates through to commercial approval. Therefore, advancing the development of our product candidates will require substantial additional investment. Continued development of these programs is therefore dependent upon raising additional capital. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain capital on acceptable terms, or at all. We do not expect any of our prospective products or technologies to be commercially available for at least several years and our efforts may not lead to commercially successful products for a number of reasons including the inability to be proven safe and effective in clinical trials, the lack of regulatory approvals or obtaining regulatory approvals that are narrower than we seek, inadequate financial resources to complete the development and commercialization of our product candidates or the lack of acceptance in the marketplace. We continuously reassess all of our research and development efforts, including those for the therapeutic products described under Item 1 above. As new information about each technology becomes available, it may change perceptions of previously accepted data, which could require additional periods of time to review and interpret these data. As a result, we may find deficiencies in the design or application stages while developing our clinical trial studies, or in the subsequent implementation stages of such studies, which could cause us or the FDA to delay, suspend or terminate our trials at any time. Potential problems we may encounter in the implementation stages of our studies include the chance that we may not be able to conduct clinical trials at preferred sites, obtain sufficient test subjects or begin or successfully complete clinical trials in a timely fashion, if at all. Furthermore, the FDA may suspend clinical trials at any time if it believes the subjects participating in trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or if it finds deficiencies in the clinical trial process or conduct of the investigation. At any time, we may expand, delay, terminate or dispose of all or any portion of our research and development programs and therapeutic products or we may develop or acquire rights to new product candidates. We have a history of net losses and an accumulated deficit, and we may never achieve or maintain revenue or profitability in the future. We have experienced net losses since our inception in 1991. To date, we have financed our operations primarily with the net proceeds of public offerings of common stock, private placements of equity 9 securities, with the exercise of warrants and options, and with debt. We have also funded our capital requirements with the proceeds of the sale of our paclitaxel business (approximately $71.7 million) to Mayne Pharma on December 12, 2003. We incurred losses from continuing operations of approximately $16.6 million, $17.2 million and $21.6 million for the years ended December 27, 2006, December 28, 2005 and December 29, 2004, respectively. We have an accumulated deficit of $123.9 million as of December 27, 2006. We have incurred these net losses primarily from costs incurred in our research and development programs and from our general and administrative expenses. We anticipate that losses will continue until such time, if ever, as we are able to generate sufficient sales to support our development operations. We may never generate revenue from our product candidates or become profitable in the future. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts on research and development, including amounts spent on conducting clinical trials for our product candidates. In addition, we may seek to in-license or purchase new products or technologies. We may not be able to continue as a going concern if we are unable to generate meaningful amounts of revenue to support our operations or cannot otherwise raise the necessary capital to support our operations. Our potential products and technologies must undergo rigorous clinical testing and regulatory approvals and compliance, which could substantially delay or prevent us from marketing any products. The clinical development of our product candidates has many risks of failure. Drugs must be proven safe and effective before they can be approved for human use. The advancement of drug candidates into human clinical trials is dependent on the positive outcome of pending preclinical studies, decisions by the FDA, institutional review boards, and other regulatory factors. Patient recruitment for clinical trials can be difficult, and clinical trials may be delayed or prolonged due to inability to recruit a sufficient number of patients. We may encounter significant delays or excessive costs in our efforts to secure regulatory approvals. Our product candidates rely on new and unproven technologies, and none of our proposed products or technologies has yet completed clinical tests designed to measure their safety or effectiveness in humans. The data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. Failure to comply with applicable FDA or other regulatory requirements may result in criminal prosecution, civil penalties and other actions that would seriously impair our ability to conduct our business. Even if regulatory approval is granted for a product, this approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is useful, as demonstrated through clinical trials. In addition, regulatory agencies may not approve the labeling claims that are necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of our product candidates. Even if we receive regulatory approvals, our product candidates may later exhibit adverse effects that limit or prevent their widespread use or that force us to withdraw those product candidates from the market. In addition, a marketed product continues to be subject to strict regulation after approval. Any unforeseen problems with an approved product or any violation of regulations could result in restrictions on the product, including its withdrawal from the market. Any delay in, or failure to receive or maintain regulatory approval for, any of our products could prevent us from ever generating meaningful revenues or achieving profitability. Given the uncertainty of drug development, it is impossible to say how long the clinical development of any of these compounds will take. We cannot be sure that our clinical testing for these programs will progress at the times estimated in this document. We also cannot be sure of the cost of the effort necessary to complete these programs or when, if ever, we will receive material revenues from these programs. Successfully completing these programs and obtaining an approved product for sale in the U.S. and offshore will be dependent upon our raising additional capital. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain capital on acceptable terms or at all. Delays or failures in the drug development process may adversely affect the terms or availability of future capital. 10 Reports of adverse events or safety concerns involving our product candidates or in related technology fields or other companies’ clinical trials could delay or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval or negatively impact public perception of our product candidates. Our product candidates may produce serious unforeseen adverse events. These adverse events could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of our product candidates and could result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities denying approval of our product candidates for any or all targeted indications. An independent data safety monitoring board, the FDA, other regulatory authorities or we may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time. In addition, if other pharmaceutical companies announce that they observed frequent unforeseen adverse events or unknown safety issues in their trials involving products or product candidates similar to, or competitive with, our product candidates, we could encounter delays in the timing of our clinical trials or difficulties in obtaining the approval of our product candidates. The public perception of our product candidates might also be adversely affected, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, even if the concern relates to another company’s product or product candidate. Manufacturing issues may delay or hinder development or marketing of our product candidates. The manufacture of our drug candidates is a complex process. Manufacturing these drugs for use in clinical trials, according to FDA guidelines, presents a number of significant risks and challenges. The manufacture of TPI 287, in particular, is a very complex and difficult process. If we are unable to manufacture adequate supplies of any of our compounds for our clinical trials, our timelines for development could be delayed significantly. If we are able to gain regulatory approval of our products after successful clinical trials and then commercialize and sell those products, we may be unable to manufacture enough products to maintain our business, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition. We have no experience in manufacturing any of our proposed product candidates on a commercial basis. We also have no laboratories or manufacturing facilities for such commercial manufacturing activity. If we are unable to manufacture our products in a cost-effective manner, we are not likely to become profitable. We have not received a license from the FDA for any necessary manufacturing facilities, and cannot apply for one until we submit a new potential product for commercial approval. Even if we do receive a manufacturing license, we may fail to maintain adequate compliance with the FDA’s regulations concerning current good manufacturing practices, in which case the license, and our authorization to manufacture the product, would be revoked. Unless we build our own manufacturing facilities, we will have to rely on third parties to manufacture our products. The construction of our own manufacturing facilities would require additional capital which we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain or at acceptable terms. Although we may be able to find third-party manufacturers with experience and the proper licensing requirements from the FDA, we may not be able to negotiate favorable terms regarding costs or a long-term commitment to manufacture our products or problems with such third-party manufactures could lead to inability to deliver on our contracts. Our dependence on third parties may reduce future profit margins and delay or limit our ability to develop and commercialize our products on a timely and competitive basis. We rely on third-parties to perform certain services for us and any interruption or termination of these arrangements may adversely affect our business. We rely on third-party contractors to provide certain services related to our research and development activities. Contractors handle our U.S. and international regulatory affairs, provide certain manufacturing, technical and analytical services and manage certain aspects of our clinical development. Our outsourcing of certain functions to independent, third parties poses the following risks: · our contracts with independent contractors may expire or be terminated, and we may not be able to replace them; 11 · a contractor may not commit sufficient resources to our projects; · a contractor may file for bankruptcy protection or otherwise lack sufficient resources to perform all of its obligations under our agreement; · the terms of our contracts with contractors may not be favorable to us; and · disputes with our contractors may arise, leading to delays in or termination of the development or commercialization of our products or resulting in significant litigation or arbitration proceedings. The failure of our third-party contractors to provide services to us in a timely manner could materially harm our business and financial condition. In addition, our use of outside parties could potentially lead to difficulties in coordinating activities. Outside parties may have staffing difficulties, may undergo changes in priorities or may have inadequate financial or other resources, adversely affecting their willingness or ability to provide certain services to us. We may experience unexpected cost increases that are beyond our control. Problems with the timeliness or quality of the work of a third party contractor may lead us to seek to terminate the relationship and use an alternative service provider. Making this change might be costly and may delay our clinical trials. Further, contractual restrictions may make such a change difficult or impossible. Additionally, it may be impossible to find a replacement organization that can assist us in an acceptable manner and at an acceptable cost. We may be required to rely on strategic partners for the development, marketing and manufacturing of future products and technologies that may delay or impair our ability to generate significant revenue and may otherwise adversely affect our profitability. We may, in the future rely on strategic partners for the development, marketing and manufacturing of future products and technologies because we lack the resources or capabilities to develop our product candidates. Our reliance on strategic partners poses a number of risks, including the following: · it may be difficult to successfully negotiate arrangements with potential strategic partners on acceptable terms; · if an arrangement with a strategic partner expires or is terminated, we may not be able to replace it or the terms on which we replace it may be unacceptable; · a partner involved in the development of new products or technologies may not commit enough capital or other resources to develop or commercialize these products or technologies successfully; · a strategic partner may not commit enough resources to the marketing and distribution of our products; · we may have disputes with strategic partners that could delay or terminate the development or commercialization of our products or result in significant litigation or arbitration proceedings; · contracts with our strategic partners may not provide significant protection or may be difficult to enforce if a strategic partner fails to perform; · our strategic partners may decide not to further develop or commercialize our products; · our strategic partners could develop drugs which compete with our products; · our strategic partners could turn their focus away from oncology; · our strategic partners who may manufacture future products could fail to operate their facilities in accordance with federal good manufacturing practices regulations; and · third-party manufacturers may be unable to manufacture products in a cost-effective or timely manner. 12 We may not be successful in obtaining required foreign regulatory approvals, which would prevent us from marketing our products internationally. Outside the U.S., our ability to market a product is contingent upon receiving a marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authority. This foreign regulatory approval process includes many of the same steps and uncertainties associated with FDA approval described above. We cannot be certain that we will obtain any regulatory approvals for our product candidates and technologies in other countries. In order to market our products outside of the U.S., we also must comply with numerous and varying foreign regulatory requirements implemented by foreign regulatory authorities governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval and approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by the health authorities of any other country. The process of obtaining foreign regulatory approvals can be lengthy and require the expenditure of substantial capital and other resources. We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary approvals. Any delay or failure to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of a pharmaceutical product candidate under development and obtain foreign regulatory approval could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be unable to attract and retain the qualified employees we need to be successful. We are highly dependent on members of our staff that lead or play critical roles in our research and development efforts. We require highly qualified and trained scientists with the necessary skills to develop our product candidates. Recruiting and retaining qualified technical and managerial personnel will also be critical to our success. We face intense competition for these professionals from other companies in our industry and the turnover rate for these professionals can be high. The loss of any of these persons, or our inability to recruit additional personnel necessary to our business, could substantially impair our research and development efforts and impede our ability to develop and commercialize any of our products. In addition, we rely on other consultants and advisors to assist us in formulating our research and development strategy. Some have consulting or other advisory arrangements with other entities that may conflict or compete with their obligations to us. Our use of hazardous materials exposes us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, and we may incur substantial additional costs to comply with environmental laws in connection with the operation of our research and manufacturing facilities. We may use radioactive materials and other hazardous or biohazardous substances in our research and development. As a result, we are potentially subject to material liabilities related to personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by the spread of radioactive contamination or by other hazardous substance releases or exposures at, or from, our facilities. Decontamination costs associated with radioactivity releases, other clean-up costs, and related damages or liabilities could be significant and could harm our business. The cost of this liability could exceed our resources. We are required to comply with increasingly stringent laws and regulations governing environmental protection and workplace safety, including requirements governing the handling, storage and disposal of radioactive and other hazardous substances and wastes, and laboratory operating and safety procedures. These laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations. Maintaining compliance with these laws and regulations with regard to our operations could require substantial additional resources. These costs could decrease our ability to conduct operations in a cost-effective manner. 13 If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our product candidates. Our business may expose us in the future to product liability risks, which are inherent in the testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products. Product liability claims might be brought against us by clinical trial patients, consumers or health care providers or by pharmaceutical companies or others selling our products. If we complete clinical testing for our product candidates and receive regulatory approval to market our products, we will include warnings on our products that identify the known potential adverse effects and the patients who should not receive our product. There can be no assurance that these warnings will be deemed adequate, or that physicians and patients will comply with these warnings. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against such claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our future products. We cannot predict all of the possible harms or side effects that may result and, as a result, the amount of insurance coverage we currently hold, or that we may obtain, may not be adequate to protect us from any liabilities. We may require increased liability coverage as our product candidates’ advance in clinical trials and later develop and commercialize these products. Further, insurance coverage is increasingly expensive, and we do not know whether we will be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. A successful product liability claim brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage or a product recall could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our internal controls over financial reporting are not considered effective, our business and stock price could be adversely affected. Beginning in fiscal 2007, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in our annual report on Form 10-K for that fiscal year. Beginning in fiscal 2008, Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and report on, management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events. Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. In the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A for the third quarter ended September 27, 2006, we disclosed that we did not maintain effective control over the completeness and accuracy of the supporting schedule of weighted average shares outstanding and that as a result it was necessary to restate the Consolidated Statements of Operations included in such report. We cannot assure you that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify additional material weaknesses in our internal controls in the future. If additional material weaknesses in our internal controls are detected, our internal controls over financial reporting may not be considered effective and we may experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and on the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Industry Competition from third parties may hinder our success. If we develop and commercialize our product candidates in the future, we expect competition from fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and more established biotechnology companies as well as government, universities and public and private research institutions. These companies and institutions 14 conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for product development and marketing. Most of these companies and institutions have significantly greater financial resources and expertise than we do in the following: · research and development; · preclinical studies and clinical trials; · obtaining regulatory approvals; · manufacturing; and · marketing and distribution. Smaller companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large pharmaceutical companies or other organizations. In addition, other companies and institutions compete with us in recruiting and retaining highly qualified scientific and management personnel. If we develop and commercialize our product candidates in the future, our competitors may develop more effective, safer or more affordable products and technologies, or commercialize products earlier than we do. If our competitors are successful in this respect, it could limit the prices that we are able to charge for the products that we market, and prevent us from becoming profitable. In some cases, competing products could render obsolete any products we eventually develop. Legislative and regulatory proposals to reduce the cost of health care could adversely affect our business. There have been a number of federal and state proposals in the U.S. to implement government controls on pricing and other efforts to reduce the cost of health care, including proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs. Our business is affected by these efforts and these efforts could adversely affect prices of our products. In addition, government pricing controls exist in varying forms in other countries. The emphasis on managed care in the U.S. has also increased and will likely continue to increase the pressure to reduce the prices of pharmaceutical products. We cannot predict whether any of these proposals will be adopted or the effect these proposals or managed care efforts may have on our business. In addition, the current discussion of drug reciprocation into the U.S. could also affect our future business operations. Some proposals would permit the reimportation of approved drugs that were originally manufactured in the U.S. from other countries where the drugs were sold at a lower price. These and other initiatives could decrease the price we or any potential marketing partners receive for our products, adversely affecting our profitability. The pendency or approval of such proposals could result in a decrease in our stock price or limit our ability to raise capital, enter into strategic partnerships or obtain licenses. We may be unable to effectively price our products or obtain adequate reimbursement for sales of our products, which would prevent our products from becoming profitable. Our product candidates, if developed and commercialized, may not be considered cost-effective, and coverage and adequate payments may not be available or may not be sufficient to allow us to sell these products on a competitive basis. In both the United States and elsewhere, sales of medical products and treatments are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement from health maintenance organizations, other private insurance plans, governmental programs such as Medicare, and other third-party payors. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for pharmaceutical products and services. Government and other third-party payors increasingly are attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new drugs and by refusing, in some cases, to provide coverage for uses of approved products for diseases or conditions for which the FDA has not granted labeling approval. Significant uncertainty exists as to whether and how much third-party payors will reimburse patients for their use of newly-approved drugs, which in turn will put pressure on the pricing of drugs. Third-party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for our products. 15 If government and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our products, their market acceptance may be reduced or we may not be able to commercialize our products. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our success is dependent on obtaining and defending patents and proprietary technology. Our success in commercializing, producing and marketing products and technologies in the future depends, in part, on our ability to obtain and maintain adequate protection of the intellectual property related to our technologies and products, both in the U.S. and other countries, and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents. The patent positions of biotechnology companies, including our patent positions, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We cannot predict the breadth of claims that will be allowed and issued to us for patents related to biotechnology or pharmaceutical applications. Before a patent is issued, its coverage can be significantly narrowed, either in the U.S. or abroad. We also do not know whether any of our pending or future patent applications will result in the issuance of patents. To the extent patents have been issued or will be issued, some of these patents are subject to further proceedings that may limit their scope and once patents have been issued, we cannot predict how the claims will be construed or enforced. It is not possible to determine which patents may provide significant proprietary protection or competitive advantage, or which patents may be circumvented or invalidated. Furthermore, patents already issued to us, or patents that may be issued on our pending applications, may become subject to dispute, including interference proceedings in the U.S. to determine priority of invention. If our currently issued patents are invalidated or if the claims of those patents are narrowed, our ability to prevent competitors from marketing products that are currently protected by those patents could be reduced or eliminated. We could then face increased competition resulting in reduced market share, prices and profit. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S., and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending their proprietary rights in foreign jurisdictions. For example, methods of treating humans are not patentable in many countries outside of the U.S. Our patents may not afford us protection against competitors, especially since there is a lengthy time between when a patent application is filed and when it is issued. We may also incur substantial costs in asserting claims against, and defending claims asserted against us by third parties to prevent the infringement of our patents and proprietary rights by others. Participation in such infringement proceedings may adversely affect our business and financial condition, even if the eventual outcome is favorable. Litigation or third party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend substantial time and money and adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our products. Our commercial success also depends in part on our ability to avoid infringing patents and proprietary rights of third parties and not breaching any licenses that we have entered into with regard to any future products. There are many pharmaceutical and chemical patents and applications being filed, published, and issued frequently throughout the world. Some of these patents and applications contain disclosures and claims that are similar to technologies and products that we are using and developing. Some of these patents and disclosures contain claims and disclosures that are difficult to interpret. It is possible that a third party may own or control issued patents, or patent applications or in the future may file, patent applications covering technologies or products we are developing. 16 If our technology, products or activities are deemed to infringe the other companies’ rights, we could be subject to damages or be prevented from using the technology or selling the product that is infringing other companies’ rights, or we could be required to obtain licenses to use that technology or sell the product. If patents covering technologies required by our operations are issued to others, we may have to rely on licenses from third parties, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Third parties may accuse us of employing their proprietary technology without authorization. In addition, third parties may obtain patents that relate to our technologies and claim that our use of such technologies infringes their patents, even if we have received patent protection for our technology. Such claims could require us to incur substantial costs and could have a material adverse effect on us, regardless of the merit of the claims, including the following: · the diversion of management and technical personnel in defending us against any such claims or enforcing our patents. In this regard, we may be required to defend a lawsuit or defend a proceeding in the United States Patent and Trademark Office, either of which could be expensive and time consuming; · paying a large sum for damages if we are found to infringe; · being prohibited from selling or licensing our products or product candidates unless and until we obtain a license from the patent holder, who may refuse to grant us a license or who may only agree to do so on unfavorable terms. Even if we are granted a license, we may have to pay substantial royalties or grant cross-licenses to our patents; · redesigning our products or product candidates so they do not infringe on the patent holder’s technology if we are unable to obtain a license. This may not be possible and, even if possible, it could require substantial additional capital and could significantly delay commercialization while we attempt to design around the patents or rights infringed; · incurring substantial cost in defending ourselves and indemnifying our strategic partners in patent infringement or proprietary rights violation actions brought against them relating to their development and commercialization of our products; and · incurring substantial cost in indemnifying the investors in the financing that closed on April 6, 2006 in the event that any intellectual property infringement is deemed to be a breach of the purchase agreement for the financing. We may be required to obtain rights to proprietary technologies that are required to further develop our business and that may not be available or may be costly. Our oncology programs may require the use of multiple products or technologies proprietary to other parties. Third party suppliers may not be able to furnish us with a supply of these products sufficient to satisfy our requirements. We may not be able to obtain additional licenses we may need in the future on terms acceptable to us. Our inability to obtain any one or more of these licenses, on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or to circumvent the need for any such license, could cause significant delays and cost increases and materially affect our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates. In connection with our efforts to obtain rights to these proprietary technologies, we may find it necessary to convey rights to our technology to others. Some of our products may require the use of multiple proprietary technologies. Consequently, we may be required to make cumulative royalty payments to several third parties. These cumulative royalties could become commercially prohibitive. We may not be able to successfully negotiate the amounts of these royalties on terms acceptable to us. We may rely in part on third party licenses for access to intellectual property relating to our oncology programs. Such licenses may obligate us to exercise diligence in pursuing the development of product candidates, to make specified milestone payments and/or to pay royalties. Our inability or failure to meet 17 any such diligence requirements or make any required payments would likely result in a reversion to the licensor of the rights granted, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to develop and market products based on our licensed technologies. Risks Related to Our Stock A small number of institutional investors have acquired shares of common stock and warrants representing substantially more than a majority of our shares. Should they all, or a subset of such investors, choose to act as a group, they have the ability to exert control over our activities. A small number of institutional investors have acquired shares of our common stock and warrants to acquire such shares representing a majority of our common stock. As a result, those investors hold a sufficient portion of our outstanding shares so as to permit them, if they chose to act in concert, to approve all actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combinations, without obtaining the approval of any other stockholders. Future sales and issuances of our common stock or rights to purchase common stock, including pursuant to our equity incentive plans, could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause our stock price to fall. We expect that significant additional capital will be required in the future to continue our research, development and clinical efforts. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. We may sell common stock in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner we determine from time to time. If we sell common stock in more than one transaction, stockholders who purchase stock may be materially diluted by subsequent sales. Such sales may also result in material dilution to our existing stockholders. During 2006, our Board of Directors and stockholders adopted a new equity incentive plan that provided for an initial reservation of 6,577,106 shares of common stock, for which 5,119,629 options were issued and are outstanding as of December 27, 2006. The shares available for issuance under this equity incentive plan may be increased by up to 1,600,000 shares of common stock based upon the number of shares of common stock we issue during the three year period after April 5, 2006. As a result of common stock issued during 2006, we have increased the number of shares available under the 2006 Equity Incentive Plan to 6,622,935, resulting in 1,503,306 shares that remain reserved for future grants as of December 27, 2006. During 2006, our stockholders also approved an amendment to our bylaws and our existing stock option plans to permit the repricing of stock options. Approximately 626,568 of the outstanding stock options as of April 4, 2006, were affected on that date and the exercise price of each such repriced option was reduced to $4.02 per share. Substantial sales of shares may impact the market price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We are unable to predict the effect that sales may have on the then prevailing market price of our common stock. Pursuant to a Registration Rights Agreement entered into between us and the purchasers of our common stock and warrants in the Private Placement, such purchasers are entitled to certain registration rights with respect to the shares of common stock that may be issued upon exercise of the warrants issued to them. We must, among other things, maintain effectiveness with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the registration statement for the resale of such shares of common stock underlying such warrants. 18 If we fail to continue to meet all applicable Nasdaq Capital Market requirements and Nasdaq determines to delist our common stock, the delisting could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and the market price of our common stock could decrease. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. In order to maintain that listing, we must satisfy minimum financial and other requirements. On February 25, 2005, we received notice from the Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. that our common stock had not met the $1 per share minimum bid price requirement for 30 consecutive business days and that, if we were unable to demonstrate compliance with this requirement during the applicable grace periods, our common stock would be delisted after that time. On February 6, 2006, we effectuated a one for ten reverse stock split to regain compliance with this listing requirement. Since the reverse stock spilt was effectuated, the closing bid price of our common stock has remained above $1.00 in compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. Notwithstanding that the trading price of our common stock currently exceeds the minimum bid price required to maintain compliance with the Nasdaq Capital Market listing requirements, it is possible that the minimum bid price of our common stock could fall below the required level or that we would otherwise fail to satisfy another Nasdaq requirement for continued listing of our common stock. For example, we could fail to maintain compliance with the Nasdaq Capital Market listing requirements if we did not maintain minimum stockholder equity of at least $2.5 million as a result of continuing losses. If we fail to continue to meet all applicable Nasdaq Capital Market requirements in the future and Nasdaq determines to delist our common stock, the delisting could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and the market price of our common stock could decrease. Such delisting could also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and could result in the loss of confidence by investors, suppliers and employees. Our stock compensation expense will negatively impact our earnings, and as we report the fair value of employee stock options as an expense in conjunction with a new accounting standard, our reported financial performance will be adversely affected, which may cause our stock price to decline. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) 123(R), “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.” SFAS 123(R) establishes standards for the accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services. This statement focuses primarily on accounting for transactions in which an entity obtains employee services in share-based payment transactions. SFAS 123(R) requires that the fair value of such equity instruments be recognized as an expense in the historical financial statements as services are performed. Prior to SFAS 123(R), only certain pro forma disclosures of fair value were required. As a result of the adoption of SFAS 123(R), we have recognized stock-based compensation expense of $3.4 million or $.26 basic and diluted per share from continuing operations for the year ended December 27, 2006. Included in the stock-based compensation expense for the year ended December 27, 2006 is a one-time non-cash fixed charge in the amount of $381,000 as a result of the amendment of certain vested options under our existing equity incentive plans. As of December 27, 2006, there was $11.9 million of total unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested share-based compensation arrangements granted under our stock option plans. This amount will be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 4.5 years. Periodic changes in the assumptions used to estimate stock option and restricted stock values could lead to volatility in the amount of stock-based compensation expense we recognize on a year-to-year basis. 19 Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of us, even if the acquisition would be seen by some to be beneficial to our stockholders, and may for a time, delay attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide that the Board of Directors will be divided into three classes, each consisting, as nearly as possible, of one-third of the total number of directors, with each class having a three-year term. Stockholders may take action only at a stockholders’ meeting and not by written consent. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, including the provisions providing for a classified Board of Directors, may not be amended without the vote of at least 80% of the voting power of all of our capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class. Our bylaws provide that stockholders wishing to nominate a director at an annual meeting or at a special meeting called for the purpose of electing directors or to bring business before any meeting of stockholders must comply with strict advance written notice provisions. Our bylaws also provide that special meetings of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of our Board of Directors, or certain of our officers, or by resolution of our directors. These provisions of our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control. These provisions are intended to enhance the likelihood of continuity and stability in the composition of our Board of Directors and in the policies formulated by our Board of Directors. We also intended these provisions to discourage certain types of transactions that may involve an actual or threatened change of control. We designed these provisions to reduce our vulnerability to unsolicited acquisition proposals and to discourage certain tactics that may be used in proxy contests. These provisions, however, could also have the effect of discouraging others from making a tender offer for our shares. As a consequence, they also may inhibit fluctuations in the market price of our shares that could result from actual or rumored takeover attempts. Such provisions also may have the effect of preventing changes in our management. We are permitted to issue shares of our preferred stock without stockholder approval upon such terms as our Board of Directors determines. Therefore, the rights of the holders of our common stock are subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of our preferred stock that may be issued in the future. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock could have a dilutive effect on the holdings of our current stockholders. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any “interested stockholder,” meaning generally that a stockholder who beneficially owns more than 15% of our stock cannot acquire us for a period of three years from the date this person became an interested stockholder, unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our Board of Directors. We have implemented anti-takeover provisions that may reduce the market price of our common stock. In December 2006, our board of directors adopted a stockholder rights plan to replace our stockholder rights plan that expired in November 2006 at the end of its ten-year term. Our plan may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition of us that is beneficial to our stockholders by diluting the ability of a potential acquirer to acquire us. Pursuant to the terms of our plan, when a person or group, except under certain circumstances, acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock or 10 business days after announcement of a tender or exchange offer for 15% or more of our outstanding common stock, the rights (except those rights held by the person or group who has acquired or announced an offer to acquire 15% or more of our outstanding common stock) would generally become exercisable for shares of our common stock at a discount. Because the potential acquirer’s rights would not become exercisable for our shares of common stock at a discount, the potential acquirer would suffer substantial dilution and may lose its ability to acquire us. In addition, the existence of the plan itself may deter a potential acquirer from acquiring us. As a result, either by operation of the plan 20 or by its potential deterrent effect, mergers and acquisitions of us that our stockholders may consider in their best interests may not occur. Because the investors in our financing that closed on April 6, 2006 own a substantial percentage of our outstanding common stock, our stockholder rights plan provides that such investors and their respective affiliates will be exempt from the stockholder rights plan, unless an investor and its affiliates acquire, after April 4, 2006, more than 1% of our then issued and outstanding common stock, not including the shares of common stock issued to the investors in the financing or shares of common stock issued upon exercise of the warrants issued to the investors in the financing. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 