Risk Factors Brilliance China Automotive is subject to various changing competitive, economic, political and social conditions in China, as well as special concerns and significant risks not usually encountered by a United States company. These include the following: Risks Relating to Brilliance China Automotive Minibus and Sedan Businesses Brilliance China Automotive experienced a net loss of Rmb 671.3 million in 2005 and may not be profitable in 2006 or in subsequent years. Brilliance China Automotive recorded a net loss of Rmb 671.3 million (US$83.2 million) in 2005 as compared with a net income of Rmb 1.2 million (US$0.14 million) in 2004. During the same period, total sales of Brilliance China Automotive were Rmb 5,469.0 million (US$677.7 million), representing a 16.4% decrease from Rmb 6,542.0 million (US$790.4 million) in 2004. The decrease in total sales was primarily due to the decrease in the sales volumes of minibuses and the Zhonghua sedan and the decrease in average unit selling prices due to the intensified price competition of the Chinese automobile industry during 2005. There is no assurance that sales of vehicles by Brilliance China Automotive will not be affected by the highly competitive automobile market in China. In 2005, Brilliance China Automotive also recognized a provision for impairment of intangible assets of Rmb 173.0 million, as compared with Rmb 50.0 million in 2004, in respect of the design and development costs of the Zhonghua sedans. Provision for impairment of goodwill increased from Rmb 47.3 million in 2004 to Rmb 257.7 million in 2005, primarily due to impairment loss in relation to one of Brilliance China Automotive’s jointly controlled entities and a subsidiary. Provision for impairment of property, plant and equipment increased from Rmb 10.0 million in 2004 to Rmb 48.3 million in 2005, primarily due to the retirement from use and the change in use – from production to rental – of certain property, plant and equipment of the minibus and automotive components segment. There can be no assurance that Brilliance China Automotive will not be required to recognize a provision for impairment of intangible assets, an impairment loss on goodwill or a provision for impairment of the property, plant and equipment in 2006 or in subsequent years. As a result of these factors, Brilliance China Automotive experienced a net loss in 2005, and may incur losses in 2006 and in subsequent years, which could impact Brilliance China Automotive’s ability to implement its business strategy and adversely affect its financial condition. If demand for minibuses and sedans in China does not increase, and if Shenyang Automotive does not increase its market share, the ability of Shenyang Automotive to increase its sales volume will be adversely impacted. The success of Brilliance China Automotive’s business strategy will depend on the ability of its 51.0%-owned subsidiary, Shenyang Brilliance JinBei Automobile Co., Ltd., or Shenyang Automotive, to increase substantially its sales volume. Such an increase can only be achieved if Shenyang Automotive increases its market share or if there is an overall increase in the size of the minibus and sedan markets in China. Although the overall unit sales of minibuses and sedans in China increased between 2000 and 2003 and we have experienced increased sales of our minibuses and Zhonghua sedans in 2003, the implementation of macro-economic policies and austerity measures in China has resulted in a significant slowdown in growth in domestic demand for automobiles since the second half of 2004. After a decrease of 17.4% from 74,618 units in 2003 to 61,618 units in 2004, Shenyang Automotive’s sales volume of minibuses decreased by 2.6% from 2004 to approximately 60,000 units in 2005. Sales volume of Zhonghua sedans decreased 57.1% from 25,600 units in 2003 to 10,982 units in 2004, and to approximately 9,000 units in 2005, representing an 18.0% decrease from 2004. The pace and strength of the recovery in the automotive industry in China remain difficult to predict. In light of this industry-wide decline in demand, as well as other factors, there can be no assurance that demand for Shenyang Automotive’s minibuses and sedans will return to previous levels. If overall demand for domestic minibuses and sedans does not increase in the future, the ability of Shenyang Automotive to increase its sales volume or market share could be adversely affected. 3 Table of Contents Delays in the development of new products, lack of consumer acceptance of new products and unforeseen shifts in consumer preferences may have a negative effect on Brilliance China Automotive’s financial results. Meeting consumer demand with new vehicles developed over increasingly shorter product development cycle times is critical to Brilliance China Automotive’s continued success. Brilliance China Automotive’s ability to strengthen its position within its traditional minibus segment while continue to expand into additional market segments with new products, such as sedans, will play a key role in determining its future success. In order to compete successfully within its traditional markets, as well as to enter new markets with new product offerings, Brilliance China Automotive must assess trends in consumer preferences, modify existing products or develop new products to match those trends and deliver to market these newly developed or modified products before such preferences change. Delays in the development of new products, lack of consumer acceptance of new products and unforeseen shifts in consumer preferences may have a negative effect on Brilliance China Automotive’s financial results. Brilliance China Automotive has experienced a management turnover and could continue to have problems retaining and recruiting key personnel in the future. Brilliance China Automotive had a turnover of its directors and executive officers in 2004, 2005 and 2006, and this trend of management changes may continue in the future. In 2004, three of its directors had either resigned or retired. Of the three directors who resigned or retired in 2004, one was an executive director and two were independent non-executive directors. In 2005, three executive directors had resigned. Of the three directors who resigned in 2005, one was the President and Chief Executive Officer, another was the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and the third was the Vice Chairman, Executive Vice President and Company Secretary. In 2006, an executive director, who was appointed in 2004 as President and Chief Executive Officer to fill the then vacant positions, resigned and a non-executive director retired. While Brilliance China Automotive appointed a new President and Chief Executive Officer, a new Chief Financial Officer and new executive directors and independent non-executive directors between 2004 and now, there can be no assurance that this relatively new management team will be as effective in implementing Brilliance China Automotive’s business strategies or that any of the new strategies that the new management team may decide to implement will achieve its intended objectives. Brilliance China Automotive’s success depends to a large degree upon the continued contributions of key management and other personnel, some of whom could be difficult to replace. There can be no assurance that Brilliance China Automotive will be able to recruit suitable candidates, and high turnover of senior management can adversely impact Brilliance China Automotive’s stock price and customer relationships as well as make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. In addition, Brilliance China Automotive must successfully integrate any new management personnel that it recruits in order to achieve its operating objectives, and changes in other key management positions may temporarily affect its financial performance and results of operations as new management may need time to become familiar with its business. Accordingly, Brilliance China Automotive’s future financial performance will depend to a great extent on its ability to motivate and retain key management personnel. There are significant risks involved in Brilliance China Automotive’s joint venture with BMW to produce BMW sedans in China. On March 27, 2003, Brilliance China Automotive, through its indirect subsidiary, Shenyang JinBei Automotive Industry Holdings Company Limited, or SJAI, entered into a joint venture contract with BMW Holding BV, or BMW Holding, to assemble, produce and sell BMW designed and branded sedans in China. Production began in September 2003 and the 3-Series and 5-Series sedans were formally launched in China in October and November 2003, respectively. There are significant risks involved in this joint venture, including, but not limited to, the ability of the joint venture to obtain adequate financing as and when necessary, obtain timely delivery of imported components and parts, source necessary components at competitive prices, successfully develop, manufacture, market and sell BMW sedans in China, and obtain appropriate approvals for its new products from governmental authorities in China. Brilliance China Automotive currently has a 49.0% effective interest in the joint venture and provides guarantees for the performance of all obligations of SJAI, including required capital contributions. 4 Table of Contents The ownership of Brilliance China Automotive by its largest shareholder is currently the subject of litigation. On January 21, 2003, a writ dated January 21, 2003, or the Writ, brought by Broadsino Finance Company Limited, or Broadsino, as the Plaintiff, was filed with the Supreme Court of Bermuda which alleged that the interest of the Chinese Financial Education Development Foundation, or the Foundation, in 1,446,121,500 shares of Brilliance China Automotive, or the Sale Shares, was held in trust for Broadsino and was improperly transferred to Huachen Automotive Group Holdings Company Limited, or Huachen. In the course of legal proceedings with Broadsino, Brilliance China Automotive achieved the following: (i) overturning on February 11, 2003 an ex parte Court Order dated January 22, 2003 which had restrained Brilliance China Automotive from, amongst other things, registering the transfer of the Sale Shares by the Foundation to Huachen and/or Huachen to certain directors of Brilliance China Automotive; (ii) initiating on March 10, 2003, a Strikeout Summons at the Supreme Court to have the Writ and the statement of claim struck out, which proceedings were duly heard before the Supreme Court, and which resulted on December 31, 2003 in that court issuing a judgment to strike-out the Writ; (iii) challenging Broadsino’s attempts for appeal to the Court of Appeal of Bermuda, Civil Appellant jurisdiction which appeal was then dismissed by that court’s judgment of March 14, 2005 which ruled in Brilliance China Automotive’s favor; (iv) challenging at all stages Broadsino’s further attempts for leave to appeal to the Privy Council in the United Kingdom with respect to the Court of Appeal’s judgment; and (v) being awarded costs in Broadsino’s seeking of a grant of leave on November 10, 2005 in the Court of Appeal in Bermuda to withdraw its leave to appeal to the Privy Council. On August 7, 2003, a lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia by the former Chairman of Brilliance China Automotive and others against the Liaoning Provincial Government relating to Huachen’s ownership of certain shares of Brilliance China Automotive. On March 3, 2005, a motion to dismiss the claim in favor of Liaoning Provincial Government was granted by the District Court for lack of subject matter jurisdiction. The plaintiffs appealed to the United States Court of Appeal of the District of Columbia and a decision is pending. Brilliance China Automotive has never been named as a party to this lawsuit. The directors of Brilliance China Automotive do not believe the recent litigation in Bermuda or any other litigation in other jurisdictions described above have had or will have a significant impact on the financial position of Brilliance China Automotive. See “Item 8 — Financial Information — Legal Proceedings” for further details of these litigation proceedings. Failure by Brilliance China Automotive to continue to form and maintain alliances with foreign automobile manufacturers could adversely affect its competitiveness. In order for Brilliance China Automotive to remain competitive and obtain additional technology and financing, it is crucial that it enters into and maintains alliances with foreign motor vehicle manufacturers. This is particularly true since China’s accession to the World Trade Organization, or the WTO, in November 2001. As a result of the reduction in import restrictions, more automobile manufacturers have been and will be entering China’s motor vehicle market. If Brilliance China Automotive cannot maintain its existing alliances with Toyota and BMW or form strategic alliances with other foreign automobile manufacturers regarding the establishment of joint ventures and the procurement of necessary components on commercially beneficial terms, its competitive position will be adversely affected. The inability of Shenyang Automotive to access Toyota’s technical resources to upgrade Shenyang Automotive’s products, or Toyota’s provision of assistance to any of Shenyang Automotive’s competitors could negatively impact Shenyang Automotive’s sales and competitive position. Shenyang Automotive has historically relied to a significant extent on Toyota for technical assistance for its minibuses. On December 17, 2001, Shenyang Automotive entered into an agreement with Toyota for the technology transfer of the fifth generation of the Toyota minibus — the Granvia — for which production based upon semi-knockdown kits from Toyota commenced in 2003. In the first half of 2004, the Granvia, which is marketed under the brand name “Granse” (known as “Grace” before February 2004) when sold in China by Brilliance China Automotive, entered into commercial production, with more than 60% of its parts and components from domestic sources. Although Shenyang Automotive has introduced new products, including its successful mid-priced minibus, incorporating styling and engineering refinements and modifications without assistance from Toyota, lack of access to Toyota’s technical resources may limit Shenyang Automotive’s ability to upgrade significantly its existing Toyota-designed products. Failure to update its existing models could eventually result in Shenyang Automotive’s products becoming technologically inferior to its competitors’ products, which could have an adverse impact on Shenyang Automotive’s sales. Although Brilliance China Automotive has no knowledge of any intention of Toyota to produce, or assist a current or potential competitor in the production of, minibuses similar to those of Shenyang Automotive in China, neither Brilliance China Automotive nor Shenyang Automotive could prohibit Toyota from doing so. 5 Table of Contents Any delay or disruption in Shenyang Automotive’s ability to obtain engines from Toyota could limit Shenyang Automotive’s ability to produce its deluxe minibuses. While Shenyang Automotive is currently in the process of replacing the Toyota engines used in some of its minibus models with Mitsubishi and Mianyang Xinchen engines, currently most of the engines installed in Shenyang Automotive’s deluxe minibuses are purchased from Toyota on a commercial basis. Shenyang Automotive generally maintains an inventory of Toyota engines sufficient to sustain two months of planned production. To date, Shenyang Automotive has not experienced any material disruption in its supply of engines from Toyota. Changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers and price or exchange controls could, however, hinder Shenyang Automotive’s ability to import engines. An extended disruption or reduction in Shenyang Automotive’s supply of Toyota engines would consequently limit Shenyang Automotive’s ability to produce deluxe minibuses. Any delay or disruption in Shenyang Automotive’s ability to obtain engines could limit Shenyang Automotive’s ability to produce its Zhonghua sedans. Currently all of the Mitsubishi engines installed in Brilliance China Automotive’s Zhonghua sedans are purchased from Shenyang Aerospace Mitsubishi Motors Engine Manufacturing Co., Ltd., or Shenyang Aerospace, and Harbin DongAn Automotive Engine Manufacturing Co. Ltd., or Harbin DongAn, on a commercial basis. Shenyang Aerospace is an associated company of Brilliance China Automotive, in which Brilliance China Automotive has currently an indirect 12.8% equity interest. Harbin DongAn is a joint venture between Harbin DongAn Engine Group, Mitsubishi Group and Malaysia China Investment Holding Company. See “Item 4 — Information on the Company — Business Overview — Other Significant Subsidiaries, Jointly Controlled Entities and Associated Companies — Shenyang Aerospace.” Shenyang Automotive is currently in discussions with other domestic and overseas engine manufacturers, with a view towards broadening its engine sourcing for its Zhonghua sedans, and considering using foreign designs to produce domestically made engines for sedans and minibuses. Shenyang Automotive generally maintains an inventory of Mitsubishi and DongAn engines sufficient to sustain two months of planned production. To date, Shenyang Automotive has not experienced any material disruption in its supply of engines from Shenyang Aerospace and Harbin DongAn. However, there can be no assurance that Shenyang Automotive will at all times be able to obtain a steady supply of Mitsubishi engines from Shenyang Aerospace and Harbin DongAn. An extended disruption or reduction in Shenyang Aerospace’s and Harbin DongAn’s supply of engines to Shenyang Automotive would consequently limit Shenyang Automotive’s ability to produce its Zhonghua sedans. In addition, Shenyang Automotive plans to install engines manufactured by its new engine plant in its Zhonghua sedans. There is no assurance that these new engines will be successful or will not have quality-related problems. If Shenyang Automotive is not able to timely manufacture these new engines with the desired quality, Shenyang Automotive’s ability to produce its Zhonghua sedans may be materially and adversely effected. If Brilliance China Automotive fails to upgrade its existing production facilities or build new facilities in a timely and cost-efficient manner, its businesses, financial condition and results of operation may be negatively affected. In order to maintain its competitive edge, Brilliance China Automotive’s strategy is to upgrade its production facilities, including molding, welding, painting and assembly facilities and build new facilities, for example, the construction of its new engine plant. Any failure or delay in implementing such upgrading or construction plans in a timely and cost-efficient manner could limit its future growth and have a material adverse effect upon Brilliance China Automotive’s businesses, financial condition and results of operations. 6 Table of Contents Shenyang Automotive’s competitors may have access to more advanced technology, greater financial resources and more substantial support from the Chinese government, which could negatively affect Shenyang Automotive’s competitive position. Some of Shenyang Automotive’s competitors have formed joint ventures with, or licensed technology from, foreign automobile manufacturers, and others may do so in the future. These competitors may have access to greater financial resources than Brilliance China Automotive or to technology and equipment that are more advanced than the technology and equipment utilized by Brilliance China Automotive. In addition, some of Shenyang Automotive’s potential competitors may receive substantial support from the Chinese government, including priority access to loans, favorable import quotas and tariffs, expedited approvals of proposed projects and products and preferential tax treatment. Such advantages may make it difficult for Shenyang Automotive to compete with these other automobile manufacturers. Huachen, as Brilliance China Automotive’s substantial shareholder, may not always act in the best interest of other shareholders. Huachen, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Liaoning Provincial Government, currently owns 39.4% of the issued and outstanding shares of Brilliance China Automotive, which it acquired from the Chinese Financial Education Development Foundation in December 2002. Accordingly, Huachen is entitled to cast 39.4% of the votes on all matters voted on by the shareholders of Brilliance China Automotive (to the extent it is not required to abstain from exercising its voting rights under the Bye-laws of Brilliance China Automotive and applicable laws and regulations), and therefore is able to exert substantial influence over the election of Brilliance China Automotive’s directors, the outcome of actions requiring majority shareholder approval and the business in general of Brilliance China Automotive. Such influence could preclude the ability of minority shareholders to influence important business decisions of Brilliance China Automotive, and may result in actions or omissions by Brilliance China Automotive that are not in the best interest of the minority shareholders. Significant changes in the cost or availability of raw materials or components may have a material adverse impact on Brilliance China Automotive’s results of operations. Brilliance China Automotive has established relationships with over 280 suppliers in the PRC and sources the majority of its important components and raw materials from at least two different suppliers to ensure availability and increase competition among suppliers. Brilliance China Automotive has also made significant progress in increasing the domestic component content of its products. However, certain principal components of BMW sedans continue to be imported from overseas suppliers. For example, certain components used in sedans produced by BMW Brilliance are imported from BMW Group and certain other components used in minibuses are imported from Toyota. Because these components are imported from the BMW Group. Toyota and other suppliers in Europe and Japan, the costs as well as availability of such components may be affected by exchange rates, import restrictions, customs clearance, shipment schedules and import duties and consequently drive up Brilliance China Automotive’s costs of production. In addition, unexpected disruptions in the supply of certain components, particularly from foreign suppliers, may also require using alternative suppliers or cause delays in the production process. Furthermore, an increase in the price of electricity or certain raw materials, such as steel, may result in increased costs of production. Significant changes in the cost or availability of raw materials or components may have an adverse impact on Brilliance China Automotive’s results of operations. Product liabilities and recall claims may adversely affect Brilliance China Automotive’s results of operation. Manufacturers and sellers of defective products in China may be subject to liability for losses and injury caused by such defective products under China’s laws. However, there is currently no compulsory legal requirement under PRC legislation for automobile manufacturers to maintain insurance coverage in respect of production interruption, product liability or damage to third party properties. Brilliance China Automotive does not carry product liability insurance or insurance against losses due to production insurance, product recalls or damage to third party properties. Brilliance China Automotive cannot guarantee that product liability claims will not be brought against Brilliance China Automotive or its subsidiaries and affiliates in the future, and, if such claims are successful, that such claims will not have a material adverse impact upon Brilliance China Automotive’s results of operations, or that the Chinese government will not impose new requirement for sufficient insurance to be maintained to cover the risks associated with Brilliance China Automotive’s China operations, including those of Shenyang Automotive. 7 Table of Contents Brilliance China Automotive’s business and future growth depend on availability of funding. Research and development is capital intensive. Capital costs are funded by Brilliance China Automotive from operating cash flow and financing. The availability of future borrowings and access to the capital markets for financing depend on prevailing market conditions and the acceptability of the financing terms offered. Brilliance China Automotive cannot assure that future financings will be available on acceptable terms, or in amounts sufficient to fund its needs. If Brilliance China Automotive fails to obtain sufficient funding, it may be unable to implement its expansion plans, which may have a material adverse impact upon its business and financial condition. Brilliance China Automotive is required to comply with increasingly stringent environmental standards applicable to its vehicles and manufacturing facilities. Brilliance China Automotive’s production facilities are subject to government pollution regulations enforced by the relevant local governments. In addition, the Chinese government has set vehicle safety, exhaust and performance standards with which Brilliance China Automotive must comply. Brilliance China Automotive’s operations are sensitive to changes in the Chinese government’s environmental policies relating to all aspects of the automobile manufacturing. There is no assurance that changes in such policies would not have an adverse effect on the revenue or results of operations of Brilliance China Automotive. Brilliance China Automotive may encounter difficulties for compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The United States Securities and Exchange Commission, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every public company in the United States to include a management report on such company’s internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. These requirements will first apply to our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. Our management may conclude that our internal controls over our financial reporting are not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may still be unable to attest to our management’s assessment or may issue a report that concludes that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective. In preparation for the implementation of the requirements of Section 404, we are undertaking company-wide documentation of internal controls, performing the system and process evaluation and testing required. During the course of our evaluation, documentation and attestation, we may identify certain deficiencies that could adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial data consistent with our management‘s assertions in our financial statements. Although we will formulate plans for remedial measures to make necessary improvements to address any deficiency found, we cannot assure you that we will be able to remedy the identified deficiencies in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. We are also in the process of conducting further evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and may identify other deficiencies that we may not be able to remedy in time by the deadline for compliance with Section 404. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we or our auditors may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal controls, on an ongoing basis, over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading prices of our ADSs. Furthermore, we have already incurred considerable costs and spent significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs and use significant resources for compliance with Section 404. 8 Table of Contents There is no assurance that the research and development carried out by Brilliance China Automotive will materialize in products that can achieve market acceptance. Brilliance China Automotive invests and plans to continue to invest capital and other resources to develop or acquire proprietary automobile-related technologies. As the development of proprietary technologies is a highly complex, uncertain and costly process, there is no assurance that Brilliance China Automotive can successfully develop and commercialize new products based on its new technologies and innovations (or to do so in a timely manner), or that any new products that Brilliance China Automotive introduces will achieve market acceptance. For example, Brilliance China Automotive will begin manufacturing engines at its new engine plant in late June 2006 for installation in its sedans. Brilliance China Automotive has made significant investments for the development and manufacture of these new engines and there is no assurance that the engines built at the new engine plant will achieve the desired quality or market acceptance. If Brilliance China Automotive’s efforts to develop and commercialize new products based on such technologies are unsuccessful, it may not be able to recover its investment in such technologies and may suffer losses as a result of the failure of such products. Moreover, if Brilliance China Automotive’s research and development capabilities are impaired, the development of Brilliance China Automotive’s products may be delayed and which, in turn, may adversely affect its business plans and operations. Brilliance China Automotive’s intellectual property rights may be infringed by third parties and, Brilliance China Automotive may also face infringement claims brought by third parties. Brilliance China Automotive has adopted strict policies to protect its existing and future intellectual property under existing and future patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and unfair competition laws. However, policing breaches of its intellectual property rights is difficult and sometimes impracticable. There is no assurance that the current measures taken by Brilliance China Automotive will prevent infringement of Brilliance China Automotive’s intellectual property rights. Counterfeit automobiles and automotive parts that improperly use Brilliance China Automotive’s brands, technology or designs could cause it to lose sales and damage its reputation, brands and product images. Even if Brilliance China Automotive succeeds in establishing infringement claims against third parties, they may be unable to pay damages and expenses. Brilliance China Automotive may also face infringement claims brought by third parties. These claims against Brilliance China Automotive could cause it to incur significant legal fees and other costs, divert its management’s attention and cause significant disruptions to its businesses and operations. If an infringement claim is successfully asserted against Brilliance China Automotive, it could also be required to pay substantial monetary damages and be injoined from further production or sale of certain products, which could have a material adverse effect on its businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Brilliance China Automotive has uninsured risks. Brilliance China Automotive’s insurance coverage, as of December 31, 2005, includes fire, flood, riot, strike, malicious damage, business interruption, transportation, product and public liability. However, there are certain types of losses, for instance, losses resulting from acts of terrorism which are disproportionately expensive or practically infeasible for Brilliance China Automotive to fully insure against, or to insure at all. Therefore, there may be circumstances in which Brilliance China Automotive will not be fully insured for losses and liabilities, which may in turn result in the interruption of its business. These uninsured losses and liabilities could adversely affect the financial position of Brilliance China Automotive. Brilliance China Automotive may not succeed under the “Local Branding” approach to maintain and strengthen the name recognition of its “Zhonghua” brand and may subsequently suffer loss as PRC consumers give more weight to brand recognition as they make auto purchase decisions. The “Zhonghua” brand is considered one of PRC’s “Local Brands” of domestically produced vehicles. This “Local Branding” approach encourages PRC auto companies to establish and grow their self-established auto name brands and to use domestic technologies, production facilities and components to build vehicles. Shenyang Automotive’s “Zhonghua” had been recognized as a well-known “Local Brand” shortly after its launch. However, because PRC customers have associated auto brands with automobile quality, innovation and reliability, and brand recognition has become an increasingly important factor in consumers’ decisions in purchasing vehicles, certain foreign auto brands still have substantial brand recognition advantage over these “Local Brands”. Thus although Shenyang Automotive has committed itself to this branding approach and has made multi-faceted efforts to boost its brand recognition, there can be no assurance that this approach will be effective in the long run, nor can there be assurance that “Zhonghua” as well as other brands Brilliance China Automotive may launch in the future can withstand the severe competition from the long- established foreign auto brands. 9 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Minibus and Sedan Industries in China China’s automobile demands may become more volatile due to macroeconomic factors. After the rapid growth between 2000 and 2003, China’s sedan industry growth has slowed significantly in 2004. In particular, the sales volume increased 75% from 2002 to 2003, as compared to only 16% from 2003 to 2004. China’s sedan industry has however showed significant improvement in 2005. According to China Automotive Technology & Research Center, sedan sales volume increased by 28.0% to 3,131,950 sedan units in 2005, compared to the 2,448,557 sedan units sold in 2004. Sales performance in China’s sedan market improved further in the first four months of 2006 with a total of 1,719,032 sedan units being sold, compared to the 1,129,497 sedan units sold in the same period in 2005, an increase of 52.2% year on year. However, there is no assurance that this growth will continue. The demand for automobiles in China is affected by various factors beyond Brilliance China Automotive’s control, including: • economic and monetary policies implemented by the Chinese government; • availability of automobile consumption loans; • availability of automobile insurance policies; • consumer confidence; • volatility in petroleum, diesel and other commodity prices; and • development of transportation infrastructure, for example express ways. If the general economy in China slows down or the Chinese government adopts new policies that adversely affect the automotive industry, the demand for automobiles is also likely to experience a significant down turn. Over the years, Brilliance China Automotive has been increasing its production capacities in anticipation of a significant increase in automobile demand in China. Any slow down in automobile demand in China may lead to an increase in Brilliance China Automotive’s inventory and could result in a significant underutilization of its production capacity. As a result, Brilliance China Automotive’s results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Competition is intense in China’s automobile industry. Brilliance China Automotive currently faces intense competition mainly from other Chinese domestic automobile manufacturers. Many of Brilliance China Automotive’s competitors have joint ventures with leading foreign automobile manufacturers and may have significantly more resources than Brilliance China Automotive. Any further increase in competition may dilute Brilliance China Automotive’s market share and reduce its profit margin. The competition that Brilliance China Automotive faces also requires it to increase its marketing and development costs. As Chinese automotive components and parts industry is highly fragmented, Brilliance China Automotive competes with a large number of manufacturers in this market. Brilliance China Automotive also competes with other automobile manufacturers and automotive components and parts manufacturers in the hiring and retention of management and skilled employees. There can be no assurance that Brilliance China Automotive will be able to compete successfully with its competitors in the automobile and automotive components and parts industries. If Brilliance China Automotive’s competitors gain a competitive advantage in terms of value for money, product quality, brand recognition or financial resources, the market share, profitability and financial position of Brilliance China Automotive may be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Reduced tariffs and import restrictions on foreign-made motor vehicles and motor vehicle components as a result of China’s entry into the WTO may lead to increased competition for Brilliance China Automotive. The Chinese government imposes restrictions, quotas and tariffs on the import of foreign-made motor vehicles, as well as motor vehicle components. However, as a result of China’s accession to the WTO, which regulates trading and tariffs among its signatory states, in November 2001, China has committed to reducing its import restrictions on motor vehicles and motor vehicle components. In addition, China will be required to conform its import tariffs to the uniform tariffs under the WTO. Effective January 1, 2002, China reduced its import tariffs on motor vehicles and automotive components from between 80% to 100% and between 18% to 40%, respectively, to between 43.8% to 50.7% and between 14% to 31.4%, respectively. This range was lowered further to between 4.8% and 25% for automotive components in 2003, between 5% and 22.9% in 2004 and between 5% and 18.6% in 2005. In 2006, the import tariffs on automotive components were further reduced to between 5.0% and 14.3%. In 2004, the average import tariffs on automotive components for the deluxe minibuses (including Granse minibuses) and Zhonghua sedans were 13.8% and 10.5%, respectively, and in 2005, the average tariffs became 9.7% and 12.1% for the imported components for deluxe minibuses and Zhonghua sedans, respectively. In addition, tariffs on vehicles with nine seats or less and engine sizes of three liters or below fell from 43.9% in 2002 to 38.2% in 2003, while tariffs on vehicles with more than nine seats and engines of more than three liters decreased from 50.7% in 2002 to 43.0% in 2003. In 2004, tariffs were 34.2% for vehicles with nine seats or less and engine sizes of three liters or less and 37.6% for vehicles with more than nine seats and engines of more than three liters. In 2005, tariffs were fixed at 30% for all motor vehicles. These tariffs were further reduced to 28% in January 2006 and are scheduled for further reduction to 25% in July 2006. Although lower tariffs and reduced import restrictions may benefit Brilliance China Automotive in terms of lower cost of imported components, lower tariffs and reduced import restrictions could also lead to a substantial increase in the number of minibuses, sport utility vehicles, sedans and other motor vehicles imported into China, thereby significantly increasing competition in Brilliance China Automotive’s current and proposed markets. The automobile industry is heavily regulated in China, and automobile-related regulations may become even more stringent in the future. Brilliance China Automotive is subject to various laws, rules and regulations in China imposed at national, provincial and municipal levels that regulate or affect China automobile manufacturing industry and automotive components and parts manufacturing industry, including: • crash test requirements and other safety standards in relation to automobile and automotive parts and components; • emission standards; • maximum fuel consumption; • minimum warranty requirements; • automobile recall requirements; • noise, waste, discharge and other pollution controls relating to manufacturing of automobiles; • restrictions on road use, including time restriction and segmental restriction; and • market entry requirements and/or minimum production requirements for automobile and automotive components and parts manufacturers. 11 Table of Contents Moreover, every new product type must be approved by the Chinese government before it can be introduced into the market. This approval process can sometimes be lengthy, and can impact the ability of Brilliance China Automotive to introduce new products in a timely manner. This regulatory framework may limit the flexibility of Brilliance China Automotive to respond to market conditions or competition. The cost of complying with these policies and regulations can also be significant. Brilliance China Automotive’s operations are sensitive to changes in the Chinese government’s policies relating to all aspects of the automobile industry. There can be no assurance that changes in such policies would not have an adverse effect on the revenue or results of operations of Brilliance China Automotive. In addition, China’s regulators may introduce in the future more stringent regulations and measures which will affect Brilliance China Automotive’s automobile manufacturing and automotive components and parts manufacturing businesses. In June 2006, the regulators have announced that new measures will be introduced to trim overcapacity in the PRC automobile industry and promote local brands. For example, annual sales of automobile manufacturers in China must reach certain levels in order for them to build new manufacturing plants. The imposition of any such more stringent requirements may require Brilliance China Automotive to incur substantial and costly changes to its automobile and/or automotive components and parts designs and its business structure or organization, or restrict its ability to respond to changing market conditions or competition. Moreover, Brilliance China Automotive’s failure to comply with such laws and regulations would result in fines, penalties or lawsuits. China’s automobile industry is significantly dependent upon the economy of China. The performance of China’s automobile manufacturing industry is highly dependent on general economic conditions and the purchasing power of Chinese consumers. Thus, the revenue and profits of Brilliance China Automotive are subject to cyclical fluctuations and may be adversely affected by any unfavorable changes in the economic conditions in China. Increase in fuel prices may adversely affect demand for automobiles. Fuel prices (including prices of petroleum and diesel) in China reached historical heights in May 2006. Any further increase in fuel prices may: • have an adverse impact on China’s economy and may thereby result in a slow down for automobile demand; • increase Brilliance China Automotive’s production costs due to increase in costs of petrochemical products; and • discourage customers from purchasing automobiles due to increased running costs. If fuel prices continue to increase or remain at high levels, Brilliance China Automotive’s sales and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. China’s re-adjustment of consumption taxes on vehicles may cause decline of demand for certain models Brilliance China Automotive currently manufactures. On April 1, 2006, the State Administration of Taxation of China, in an effort to encourage environmental protection and fuel efficiency, re-adjusted consumption tax rates on passenger vehicles. Before the re-adjustment, the consumption tax rate for passenger vehicles was a three- tiered system: 3% for automobiles with engine displacement lower than 1.0-liter; 5% for automobiles with engine displacements between 1.0 liter and 2.0-liter, and 8% for automobiles with engine displacements above 2.0-liter. After the re-adjustment, tax rates on vehicles with smaller engines (under 2.0-liter) either fell or remained unaltered, whereas tax rates on automobile with larger engines were raised. The new tax rates are: 3% for 0.0-1.5-liter; 5% for 1.51-2.0-liter; 9% for 2.01-2.5-liter; 12% for 2.51-3.0-liter; 15% for 3.01-3.5-liter; and 20% for 4.0-liter and above. Consequently, the tax rates on the BMW 3 and 5 series sedans produced by BMW Brilliance, as well as the 2.4-liter Zhonghua sedans have been raised by this re-adjustment. As a result of this new consumption tax regime, the prices of the above-mentioned vehicles have increased, which may lower demand for these vehicles in 2006 and subsequent years, and therefore negatively impact Brilliance China Automotive’s businesses and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Risks Relating to China’s Economy and Regulatory System China’s economic, political and social conditions, as well as government policies, could affect Brilliance China Automotive’s businesses. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • extent of government involvement; • level of development; • growth rate; • control of foreign exchange; and • allocation of resources. While China’s economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among the various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on Brilliance China Automotive’s operations. For example, Brilliance China Automotive’s financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by the Chinese government’s control over capital investments or any changes in tax regulations or foreign exchange controls that are applicable to it. China’s economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating the development of industries in China by imposing top-down policies. It also exercises significant control over PRC economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling the payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Exchange rates fluctuations may affect the results of operations of Brilliance China Automotive. Brilliance China Automotive’s major operations are based in China and a significant proportion of its turnover is derived from its operations in China. Renminbi was revalued on July 21, 2005 to Rmb 8.11 per US$1.00 from its previously pegged rate of Rmb 8.28 per US$1.00. The People’s Bank of China also announced that Renminbi would be pegged to a basket of foreign currencies, rather than tied solely to the U.S. dollars, and would trade within a 0.3% band against this basket of currencies, which includes, without limitation, U.S. dollars, Euro, Japanese yen, South Korean won, British pounds, Thai baht and Russia ruble. There is no assurance on whether there will be any further revaluation of Renminbi. Any further revaluation of Renminbi may adversely affect China’s economy and may therefore lead to a down turn in the automobile demand in China. 13 Table of Contents Budgetary constraints on China’s government entities and state enterprises could affect Shenyang Automotive’s sales and pricing of products. Brilliance China Automotive believes that approximately 30% and 35% of Shenyang Automotive’s 2005 revenues from minibuses and sedans, respectively, were derived from sales to governmental agencies and certain state-run enterprises. Because of Shenyang Automotive’s customer composition, sales and pricing of its products can be affected by budgetary constraints applicable to government entities and state enterprises. Any significant failure or disruption of China’s banking system could materially and adversely affect Brilliance China Automotive’s ability to obtain credit. Most major banks in China are owned by the Chinese government. Most of these banks have historically extended significant amounts of loans according to governmental policy rather than for commercial reasons. As a result, these banks currently have significant loans outstanding to state-owned enterprises, many of which have incurred recurring and material losses. Consequently, many banks in China have substantial levels of loans that are not current with respect to payments of either interest or principal and may not have made adequate provisions to cover potential losses on these loans. Any significant failure or disruption of China’s banking system could materially and adversely affect Brilliance China Automotive’s ability to obtain credit and the economic environment in which it conducts its business and may also affect its customers and distributors. Shenyang Automotive’s ability to obtain sufficient foreign exchange to satisfy its requirements is dependent on authorization of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange of China. Substantially all of the revenues of Shenyang Automotive are denominated in Renminbi, while some of its operating expenses, purchase costs of components and capital expenditures are denominated in foreign currencies. The Renminbi currently is not a freely convertible currency. The State Administration of Foreign Exchange of China, under the authority of the People’s Bank of China, regulates the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currency. There can be no assurance that the current authorizations for foreign-invested enterprises, such as Shenyang Automotive, to retain its foreign exchange to satisfy foreign exchange liabilities or to pay dividends in the future will not be limited or eliminated or that Shenyang Automotive will be able to obtain sufficient foreign exchange to pay dividends and to satisfy their other foreign exchange requirements. There are inherent uncertainties in China’s legal system which may affect Brilliance China Automotive. China’s legal system is a civil law system. Unlike the common law system, the civil law system is based on written statutes in which decided legal cases have little value as precedents. Since 1979, the Chinese government has begun to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and has introduced many new laws and regulations to provide general guidance on economic and business practices in China and to regulate foreign investment. Progress has been made in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. The promulgation of new changes to existing laws and the abrogation of local regulations by national laws could have a negative impact on the business and prospects of Brilliance China Automotive and its joint ventures. In addition, as these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, their interpretation and enforcement may involve significant uncertainty. The interpretation of PRC laws may be subject to policy changes which reflect domestic political changes. As China’s legal system develops, the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws and the preemption of local regulations by national laws may have an adverse effect on Brilliance China Automotive’s prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Other Risks There can be no assurance that there will not be another significant outbreak of a highly contagious disease. In 2003, there was an outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, in the PRC, Singapore, Hong Kong, other Asian countries and Canada. The SARS outbreak had a significant adverse impact on the economies of the affected countries. Recently, there have been media reports regarding the spread of the H5N1 virus or “Avian Influenza A” among birds, poultry and in some isolated cases, transmission of Avian Influenza A virus from animals to human beings. There can be no assurance that there will not be another significant outbreak of a severe contagious disease. If such an outbreak were to occur, it may have a material adverse impact on the operations of Brilliance China Automotive and its results of operations may suffer. See also “Government Regulation” and “Environmental Matters” in “Item 4 — Information on the Company”, “Item 5 — Operating and Financial Review and Prospects,” “Item 8 — Financial Information — Legal Proceedings” and “Item 11 — Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”. 