ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Intense competition from traditional retail sources and the Internet may adversely affect our business. The retail book business is highly competitive, and competition within the industry is fragmented. We face direct competition from other superstores, such as Barnes & Noble and Borders, and we also face competition from mass merchandisers, such as Wal-Mart and Costco, and online retailers such as Amazon, Barnes and Noble, Borders and Wal-Mart. Our bookstores also compete with specialty retail stores that offer books in particular subject areas, independent single store operators, variety discounters, drug stores, warehouse clubs, mail order clubs and other retailers offering books. In addition, our bookstores may face additional competition from the expanding market for electronic books and from other categories of retailers entering the retail book market. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition, and significantly greater financial, marketing, and other resources than we have. They may be able to secure merchandise from vendors on more favorable terms and may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Competitors in both the retail and electronic commerce trade also may be able to devote more resources to technology development, fulfillment, and marketing than we are able to. Competition in electronic commerce trade may intensify. The online market is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, with few barriers to entry. Companies in the retail and electronic commerce trade may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. This increased competition may reduce our sales, operating profits, or both. Our business is highly seasonal. Our business is highly seasonal with sales and earnings generally highest in the fourth quarter and lowest in the first quarter. Our results of operations depend significantly upon the holiday selling season in the fourth quarter. During the fiscal year ended February 3, 2007, approximately 34% of our sales and approximately 79% of our operating income were generated in the fourth quarter. If we do not stock popular products in sufficient amounts or fail to have sources to timely restock popular products during the busy holiday period such that we fail to meet customer demand, it could significantly affect our revenue and earnings and our future growth. In addition, if we experience less than satisfactory net sales during the fourth quarter, we may not be able to sufficiently compensate for any losses which may be incurred during the first three quarters of the year. Our business is dependent upon consumer spending patterns. Sales of books may depend upon discretionary consumer spending, which may be affected by general economic conditions, consumer confidence and other factors beyond our control. Weather, among other things, can affect comparable store sales, because inclement weather can require us to close certain stores temporarily and thus reduce store traffic. Even if stores are not closed, customers may decide to avoid going to stores in bad weather. In addition, sales are dependant in part on 7 the strength of new release titles offered by vendors. A decline in consumer spending on books could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be affected by our relationships with suppliers and delays in product shipments. We rely heavily upon our suppliers to provide us with new products as quickly as possible. The loss of any of our suppliers could reduce our product offerings, which could cause us to be at a competitive disadvantage. In addition, we depend upon the business terms we can obtain from suppliers, including competitive prices, unsold product return policies, new release title quantity allocations, advertising and market development allowances, freight charges and payment terms. Our failure to maintain favorable business terms with our suppliers could adversely affect our ability to offer products to consumers at competitive prices. To the extent that our suppliers rely on overseas sources for a large portion of their products, any event causing a disruption of imports, including the imposition of import restrictions in the form of tariffs or quotas and currency fluctuations, could hurt our business. Our vendor relationships subject us to a number of risks, and we heavily rely on one supplier for magazine purchases that is a related party. Although we purchase merchandise from over 1,500 vendors and no one vendor accounted for more than 13% of our inventory purchases in the fiscal year ended February 3, 2007, we have significant vendors that are important to us. If our current vendors were to stop selling merchandise to us on acceptable terms, we may not be able to acquire merchandise from other suppliers in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms. We have entered into and may, in the future, enter into various transactions and agreements with entities wholly or partially owned by certain stockholders or directors (including certain officers) of the Company. We believe that the transactions and agreements that we have entered into with related parties are on terms that are at least as favorable to us as could reasonably have been obtained at such time from third parties. If we do not successfully optimize inventory and manage our distribution, our business could be harmed If we do not successfully optimize our inventory and operate our distribution centers, it could significantly limit our ability to meet customer demand. Because it is difficult to predict demand, we may not manage our facilities in an optimal way, which may result in excess or insufficient inventory or warehousing, fulfillment, or distribution capacity. Additionally, if we open new stores in new geographic areas where we don’t currently have a presence, we may not be able to provide those stores with efficient distribution and fulfillment services which may impact our stores in those markets. We may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment and customer service centers to meet customer demand. There can be no assurance that we will be able to operate our network effectively. We rely heavily on the American Wholesale warehouse distribution facilities for merchandise distribution functions and to maintain inventory stock for our retail stores. Our ability to distribute merchandise to our stores and maintain adequate inventory levels may be materially impacted by any material damage incurred at our warehouse facilities caused by inclement weather, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God and similar factors. We also rely heavily on American Wholesale’s dedicated transportation fleet for deliveries of inventory. As a result, our ability to receive inbound inventory efficiently may be negatively affected by inclement weather, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, labor disputes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God and similar factors. Any of the inventory risk factors set forth above may adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Failure to retain key personnel Our continued success depends to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management. The failure to retain our senior managers could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance on any of our senior managers. Failure to attract and retain qualified associates and other labor issues could adversely affect our financial performance. Our ability to continue to expand our operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates. Our ability to meet our labor needs generally while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force, unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and changes in employment legislation. If we are unable to locate, attract and retain qualified personnel or if our costs of labor or related costs increase significantly, our financial performance could be affected adversely. 8 We rely extensively on communication and computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. Disruptions in these systems could harm our ability to run our business. Given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems. Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as acts of God, fires, tornadoes, hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, acts of war or terrorism, physical or electronic break-ins, and similar events or disruptions, and usage errors by our employees. If our systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. Any material interruption in our computer operations may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Our electronic commerce trade faces business risks, which include: • risks associated with a limited operating history; • competition from other Internet-based companies and traditional retailers; • risks associated with a failure to manage growth effectively; • risks of the Internet as a medium for commerce, including internet security risks; • risks associated with the need to keep pace with rapid technological change; • risks of system failure or inadequacy; and • risks associated with the maintenance of domain names. If any of these risks materializes, it could have an adverse effect on our electronic commerce trade. Government regulation of the Internet and E-commerce is evolving and unfavorable changes could harm our business. We are subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Such existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, unencumbered Internet access to our services, and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel, and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce. Unfavorable resolution of these issues may harm our business. We could be liable for breaches of security on our website. A fundamental requirement for e-commerce is the secure storage and transmission of confidential information. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect consumer information and prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches, failure to prevent or mitigate such fraud or breaches may adversely affect our operating results. We are subject to a number of risks related to payments we accept. We accept payments by a variety of methods, including credit card, debit card, gift cards, direct debit from a customer’s bank account, physical bank check and cash. For certain payment transactions, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower our profit margins. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers, process electronic funds transfers, or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. If one or more of these agreements are terminated and we are unable to replace them on similar terms, or at all, it could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, as we offer new payment options to our customers, we may be subject to additional regulations and compliance requirements and a greater risk of fraud. 9 We may be unable to protect our intellectual property, which could harm our brand and reputation. To protect our proprietary rights in our intellectually property, we rely generally on copyright, trademark and trade secret laws. Although we do not believe that our trademarks and other intellectual property are materially important to the continuation of our operations, our failure or inability to maintain or protect our proprietary rights could materially decrease their value, and our brand and reputation could be impaired as a result. We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may affect our financial condition and results of operation. We are involved in a number of legal proceedings. In the opinion of management, after consultation with legal counsel, the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to those proceedings is not presently expected to materially affect our financial condition or results of operations. However, we can give no assurances that certain lawsuits either now or in the future will not materially affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our stock price may be subject to volatility. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, many of which are beyond our control, such as: • general economic conditions; • changes in interest rates; • conditions or trends in the retail book and electronic commerce trade industries; • fluctuations in the stock market in general; • quarterly variations in operating results; • new products, services, innovations, and strategic developments by our competitors or us, or business combinations and investments by our competitors or us; • changes in financial estimates by us or securities analysts and recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in regulation; • changes in our capital structure, including issuance of additional debt or equity to the public; • corporate restructurings, including layoffs or closures of facilities; • changes in the valuation methodology of, or performance by, others in the retail book and electronic trade industries; and • transactions in our common stock by major investors, and analyst reports, news, and speculation. Any of these events may cause our stock price to rise or fall and may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 