ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our business strategy. Our future results will depend, among other things, on our success in implementing our business strategy. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our business strategy or that the strategy will be successful in sustaining acceptable levels of sales growth and profitability. Intense competition from traditional retail sources and the internet may adversely affect our business. The retail book business is highly competitive, and competition within the industry is fragmented. We face direct competition from other superstores, such as Barnes & Noble, and we also face competition from mass merchandisers, such as Wal-Mart and Costco, and online retailers, such as Amazon.com, Barnes & Noble and Wal-Mart. Our bookstores also compete with specialty retail stores that offer books in particular subject areas, independent single store operators, variety discounters, drug stores, warehouse clubs, mail order clubs and other retailers offering books. In addition, our bookstores face additional and growing competition from the expanding market for electronic books and other e-content and may face competition from other categories of retailers entering the retail book market. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. They may be able to secure merchandise from vendors on more favorable terms and may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Competitors in both the retail and electronic commerce trade also may be able to devote more resources to technology development, fulfillment and marketing than we are. Competition in electronic commerce trade may further intensify. The online market is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, with few barriers to entry. Companies in the retail and electronic commerce trade may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. This increased competition may reduce our sales or operating profits, or both. Our business is highly seasonal. Our business is highly seasonal, with sales and earnings generally highest in the fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in the first fiscal quarter. Our results of operations depend significantly upon the holiday selling season in the fourth fiscal quarter. During the fiscal year ended February 1, 2014, approximately 33.6% of our sales were generated in the fourth fiscal quarter. If we do not stock popular products in sufficient amounts, or if we fail to have sources to timely restock popular products during the busy holiday period such that we fail to meet customer demand, our revenue, our earnings and our future growth could be significantly impacted. In addition, if we experience less than satisfactory net sales during a fourth fiscal quarter, we may not be able to sufficiently compensate for any losses that may have been incurred during the first three quarters of that fiscal year. 7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by economic conditions. The Company believes that the United States and global economies recovery is moderate and that the overall economic environment continues to be challenging. As this situation persists, the Company believes that these conditions have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on spending by the Company’s current retail customer base and potential new customers. Because of these significant challenges, we are continuously reviewing and adjusting our business activities to address the changing economic environment. We are carefully managing our inventory and liquidity and enforcing expense controls while working diligently and prudently to grow our business. However, our business and financial performance may be adversely affected by current and future economic conditions that cause a decline in business and consumer spending, including reduced availability of credit, increased unemployment levels, increased health care costs, higher energy and fuel costs, rising interest rates, high household debt costs, financial market volatility and long-term economic downturn. These conditions could have a negative impact on the earnings, liquidity and capital resources of the Company. Recent economic conditions have accentuated these risks and magnified their potential effect on us and our business. Economic uncertainty and difficult conditions in the capital and credit markets may affect our business in a number of ways. For example: • Economic uncertainty could have a significant adverse impact on consumer confidence and discretionary consumer spending, which may result in decreased sales and earnings for us. • Although we believe that we have sufficient liquidity under our credit agreement to run our business and to provide for our plans for growth, under depressed economic or extreme market conditions, there can be no assurance that such funds would be available or sufficient, and, in such a case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional debt financing on favorable terms, or at all. • Secular market volatility due to the uncertainty of traditional retail of books has exerted downward pressure on our stock price, which may make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital in the future. Failure to continue to open new stores, successfully integrate new stores and manage the effects of the Company’s expansion strategy could adversely affect our business. The Company’s growth depends in part on our ability to expand by opening new stores and operating them profitably. In general, the rate of expansion depends, among other things, on general economic and business conditions affecting consumer confidence and spending, the availability of desired locations and qualified management personnel, the negotiation of acceptable lease terms and the ability to manage the operational aspects of growth. It also depends upon the availability of adequate capital, which in turn depends in large part upon cash flow generated by the Company. If stores are opened more slowly than expected (or not at all) based on any of these factors, our growth may decline, and our operating results may be adversely affected. The Company opened 14 new stores during the 2014 fiscal year. There can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate these new stores successfully, which could have a negative impact on the earnings, liquidity and capital resources of the Company. Sales at new stores may reach targeted levels more slowly than expected (or fail to reach targeted levels), and related overhead costs may increase in excess of expected levels. The Company may open new stores in certain markets in which the Company is already operating stores, which could adversely affect sales at those existing stores. Furthermore, the Company’s expansion strategy could place a significant strain on our management, operations, technical performance, financial resources and internal financial control and reporting functions, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to manage this effectively. The Company’s current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support and effectively manage our future operations, especially as the Company employs personnel in multiple geographic locations. The Company may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth. If 8 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements any of this were to occur, it could damage the Company’s reputation, limit growth, negatively affect operating results and harm the Company’s business. Our business is dependent upon consumer spending patterns. Sales of books generally depend upon discretionary consumer spending, which may be affected by general economic conditions, consumer confidence and other factors beyond our control. Weather, among other things, can affect comparable store sales, because inclement weather can require us to close certain stores temporarily and thus reduce store traffic. Even if stores are not closed, customers may decide to avoid going to stores in bad weather. In addition, sales are dependent in part on the strength of new release titles offered by vendors and special promotions, which factors are not within the Company’s control. A decline in consumer spending on books based on any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Company faces risks relating to the shift in consumer spending patterns to e-content. As technology evolves and consumers shift spending patterns to e-content, the Company may continue to enter new markets in which we have limited experience. The offering of e-content may present new and difficult challenges. The Company’s gross margin of e-content products may be lower than our traditional product lines, and the Company may not recover our investments in this area. We may face greater competition from companies who have greater financial resources available to become more engaged in the distribution of e-content or who develop or control certain technologies related to the distribution of e-content. These challenges may negatively affect the Company’s operating results. The Company faces risks as an internet retailer. As an internet retailer, we are subject to risks associated with the need to keep pace with rapid technological change, risks associated with the timing and adoption of new digital products or platforms, internet security risks, risks of system failure or inadequacy, supply chain risks, governmental regulation and uncertainties with respect to the internet and digital content, risks related to data privacy and collection of sales or other taxes. If any of these risks materializes, it could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Within our real estate development and management segment, we may be unable to lease space at our new properties or renew leases or re-lease space at our existing properties, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We derive the majority of our income in our real estate development and management segment from tenants who lease space from us at our properties. A number of factors may adversely affect our ability to attract tenants at favorable rental rates and generate sufficient income, including: • the attractiveness of our properties to shoppers and tenants; • decreases in market rental rates; and • our ability to collect rent from our tenants. As leases expire at our existing properties, tenants may elect not to renew them. Even if our tenants do renew or if we can re-lease the space, the terms of renewal or re-leasing, including the cost of required renovations, may be less favorable than current lease terms. In addition, for new properties, we may be unable to attract enough tenants, or the occupancy rates and rents may not be sufficient to make the property profitable. Moreover, continued weakness in the economy or a future recession may impede the ability of our tenants to perform their contractual obligations, which could lead to an increase in defaults by tenants. If we are unable to renew the leases or re-lease the space at our existing properties promptly and/or lease the space at our new properties, or if 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements the rental rates upon renewal or re-leasing at existing properties are significantly lower than expected rates, or if there is an increase in tenant defaults, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may be unable to develop new properties or redevelop existing properties successfully, which could adversely affect our results of operations due to unexpected costs, delays and other contingencies. As part of our operating strategy for the real estate development and management segment, we intend to continue to develop new properties and to expand and/or redevelop existing properties as market conditions warrant. In addition to the risks associated with real estate investments in general, there are significant risks associated with development activities, including the following: • we may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased development costs and/or lower than expected leases; • we may incur development costs for a property that exceed original estimates due to increased materials, labor or other costs, changes in development plans or unforeseen environmental conditions, which could make completion of the property more costly or uneconomical; • land, insurance and construction costs may be higher than expected in our markets; therefore, we may be unable to attract rents that compensate for these increases in costs; • we may abandon development opportunities that we have already begun to explore, and we may fail to recover expenses already incurred in connection with exploring any such opportunities; • rental rates and occupancy levels may be lower than anticipated; • changes in applicable zoning and land use laws may require us to abandon projects prior to their completion, resulting in the loss of development costs incurred up to the time of abandonment; and • possible delays in completion because of construction delays, delays in the receipt of zoning, occupancy and other approvals, or other factors outside of our control. The illiquidity of real estate investments may significantly impede our ability to respond to changes in economic or market conditions, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid generally, and may become even more illiquid during periods of economic downturn. As a result, we may not be able to sell a property or properties quickly or on favorable terms in response to changes in the economy or other conditions when it otherwise may be prudent to do so. This inability to respond quickly to changes in the performance of our properties could adversely affect our results of operations if we cannot sell an unprofitable property. The Company’s costs of doing business could increase as a result of changes in federal, state or local laws or regulations. Changes in federal, state or local laws or regulations, including, but not limited to, laws related to employment, wages, data privacy and information security, taxes and consumer products, could increase the Company’s costs of doing business or otherwise negatively impact our operating results. Our business may be affected by our relationships with suppliers and delays in product shipments. We rely heavily upon our suppliers to provide us with new products as quickly as possible. The loss of any of our suppliers could reduce our product offerings, which could cause us to be at a competitive disadvantage. In addition, we depend upon the business terms that we can obtain from suppliers, including competitive prices, 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements unsold product return policies, new release title quantity allocations, advertising and market development allowances, freight charges and payment terms. Our failure to maintain favorable business terms with our suppliers could adversely affect our ability to offer products to consumers at competitive prices. As suppliers merge and consolidate our ability to negotiate favorable prices and terms may decline. To the extent that our suppliers rely on overseas sources for a large portion of their products, any event causing a disruption of imports, including the imposition of import restrictions in the form of tariffs or quotas and currency fluctuations, could hurt our business. Our vendor relationships subject us to a number of risks, and we rely on certain vendors that are related parties. Although we purchase merchandise from over 3,000 vendors, and no one vendor accounted for more than 10% of our inventory purchases in the fiscal year ended February 1, 2014, we have significant vendors that are important to us. If our current vendors were to stop selling merchandise to us on acceptable terms, we may not be able to acquire merchandise from other suppliers in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms. We have entered into and may, in the future, enter into various transactions and agreements with entities wholly or partially owned by certain stockholders or directors (including certain officers) of the Company, including one such entity that serves as our primary magazine vendor and another that serves as our primary provider of collectors’ supplies, as further described in Note 7, “Related Party Transactions,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, contained herein. We believe that the transactions and agreements that we have entered into with related parties are on terms that are at least as favorable to us as could reasonably have been obtained at such time from unrelated third parties. The concentration of the Company’s capital stock ownership with certain executive officers, directors and their affiliates may limit other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and may involve other risks. The Executive Chairman of the Company’s Board of Directors, Clyde B. Anderson, and his brother, Terry C. Anderson, who is a director of the Company, together with their family members and affiliates, were the beneficial owners of an aggregate of approximately 55.5% of the Company’s outstanding common stock as of April 7, 2014. This concentrated ownership may limit the ability of the Company’s other stockholders to influence corporate matters, and, as a result, the Company may take actions with which our other stockholders do not agree. In addition, there may be risks related to the relationships that members of the Anderson family have with the various entities with which the Company has related party transactions. If we do not successfully optimize inventory and manage our distribution, our business could be harmed. If we do not successfully optimize our inventory and operate our distribution centers, it could significantly limit our ability to meet customer demand. Because it is difficult to predict demand, we may not manage our facilities in an optimal way, which may result in excess or insufficient inventory or warehousing, fulfillment or distribution capacity. Additionally, if we open new stores in new geographic areas where we do not currently have a presence, we may not be able to provide those stores with efficient distribution and fulfillment services, which may impact our stores in those markets. We may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment and customer service centers to meet customer demand. There can be no assurance that we will be able to operate our network effectively. We rely heavily on the American Wholesale warehouse distribution facilities for merchandise distribution functions and to maintain inventory stock for our retail stores. Our ability to distribute merchandise to our stores and maintain adequate inventory levels may be materially impacted by any damage incurred at our warehouse facilities caused by inclement weather, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God and similar factors. We also rely heavily on our dedicated transportation fleet for deliveries of inventory. As a result, our ability to receive or ship inventory efficiently may be negatively affected by inclement weather, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, labor disputes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God and similar factors. 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Any of the inventory risk factors set forth above may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Failure to retain key personnel could adversely affect our business. Our continued success depends to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management. The failure to retain our senior management could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance on any of our senior managers. Failure to attract and retain qualified associates and other labor issues could adversely affect our financial performance. Our ability to continue to expand our operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large number of qualified associates. Our ability to meet our labor needs generally while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force, unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and changes in employment legislation. If we are unable to locate, attract and retain qualified personnel, or if our costs of labor or related costs increase significantly, our financial performance could be affected adversely. We rely extensively on communication and computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. Disruptions in these systems could harm our ability to run our business. Given the number of individual transactions that we have each year, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems. Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events, such as acts of God, fires, tornadoes, hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, acts of war or terrorism, physical or electronic break-ins and similar events or disruptions, and usage errors by our employees. If our systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. Any material interruption in our computer operations may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Our electronic commerce trade faces business risks. We face a number of risks related to our involvement in electronic commerce, including: • competition from other internet-based companies and traditional retailers; • risks associated with a failure to manage growth effectively; • risks of the internet as a medium for commerce, including internet security risks; • risks associated with the need to keep pace with rapid technological change; • risks of system failure or inadequacy; and • risks associated with the maintenance of domain names. If any of these risks materialize, it could have an adverse effect on our electronic commerce trade and our business in general. Government regulation of the internet and e-commerce is evolving, and unfavorable changes could harm our business. We are subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the internet and e-commerce. Such existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements internet or other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, unencumbered internet access to our services and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not always clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply to the internet and e-commerce. Unfavorable resolution of these issues or compliance with such laws may harm our business or affect our financial performance. The Company faces security risks with respect to the receipt and storage of personal data about our customers and employees. A fundamental requirement for e-commerce is the secure storage and transmission of personal information about our customers and employees. Our use of this information is regulated by various privacy and information security laws that are constantly changing. Compliance with these laws and regulations may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes and the development of new processes. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect consumer information and prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches on our website and otherwise, failure to prevent or mitigate such fraud or breaches, or to discover such fraud or breaches that may go undetected for an extended period of time, may adversely affect our business or results of operations, damage our reputation or subject us to legal risk. We are subject to a number of risks related to payments that we accept. We accept payments by a variety of methods, including credit card, debit card, gift card, direct debit from a customer’s bank account, physical bank checks and cash. For certain payment transactions, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time, raising our operating costs and lowering our profit margins. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers, process electronic funds transfers or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. If one or more of these agreements are terminated, and we are unable to replace them on similar terms, or at all, it could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, as we offer new payment options to our customers, we may be subject to additional regulations and compliance requirements. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property, which could harm our brand and reputation. To protect our proprietary rights in our intellectual property, we rely generally on copyright, trademark and trade secret laws. Although we do not believe that our trademarks and other intellectual property are materially important to the continuation of our operations, our failure or inability to maintain or protect our proprietary rights, or discover the unauthorized use of our proprietary rights, could materially decrease their value, and our brand and reputation could be harmed as a result. We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are party to various legal proceedings incidental to our business. In the opinion of management, after consultation with legal counsel, the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to those proceedings is not presently expected to materially affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. However, we can give no assurances that certain lawsuits either now or in the future will not materially affect our financial condition or results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Changes in our effective income tax rate could affect our results of operations. Our effective income tax rate is influenced by a number of factors. Changes in the tax laws, the interpretation of existing laws or our failure to sustain our reporting positions on examination could adversely affect our effective income tax rate and, as a result, our results of operations. Changes in accounting standards could affect our results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results of operations. New accounting pronouncements and interpretations of existing accounting rules and practices have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules may adversely affect our reported financial results. If the Company is unable to renew or enter into new leases for our retail operations on favorable terms, our revenue growth may decline. Substantially all of the Company’s stores are located in leased premises. If the cost of leasing existing stores increases, the Company cannot assure that we will be able to maintain our existing store locations as leases expire. In addition, the Company may not be able to enter into new leases on favorable terms, or at all, or we may not be able to locate suitable alternative sites or additional sites for new store expansion in a timely manner. The Company’s revenues and earnings may decline if the Company fails to maintain existing store locations, enter into new leases, locate alternative sites or find additional sites for new store expansion. The Company may engage in acquisitions, which, among other things, could negatively impact our business if we fail to successfully complete and integrate them. To enhance our efforts to grow and compete, the Company may engage in acquisitions. Any future acquisitions are subject to the Company’s ability to negotiate favorable terms for them. Accordingly, the Company cannot assure that future acquisitions will be completed. In addition, to facilitate future acquisitions, the Company may take actions that could dilute the equity interests of our stockholders, increase our debt or cause us to assume contingent liabilities, all of which may have a detrimental effect on the price of our common stock. Finally, if any acquisitions are not successfully integrated with the Company’s business, the Company’s ongoing operations could be adversely affected. The occurrence of severe weather events, catastrophic health events or natural disasters could significantly damage or destroy our retail locations, could prohibit consumers from traveling to our retail locations or could prevent us from resupplying our stores or distribution centers, especially during peak shopping seasons. Unforeseen events, including public health issues and natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, snow storms, floods and heavy rains, could disrupt our operations or the operations of our suppliers, as well as the behavior of our consumers. We believe that we take reasonable precautions to prepare particularly for weather-related events; however, our precautions may not be adequate to deal with such events in the future. As these events occur in the future, if they should impact areas in which we have our distribution centers or a concentration of retail stores, such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly if they occur during peak shopping seasons. Increases in transportation costs due to rising fuel costs, climate change regulation and other factors may negatively impact our operating results. We rely upon various means of transportation, including by water and by land, to deliver products from vendors to our distribution centers and from our distribution centers to our stores. Consequently, our results can vary depending upon the price of fuel. The price of oil has fluctuated drastically over the last few years, and may rapidly increase at any time, which would sharply increase our fuel costs. In addition, efforts to combat climate 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements change through reduction of greenhouse gases may result in higher fuel costs through taxation or other means. Any such future increases in fuel costs would increase our transportation costs for delivery of products to our distribution centers and distribution to our stores, as well as our vendors’ transportation costs, which could harm our operating results. In addition, labor shortages in the transportation industry could negatively affect transportation costs and our ability to supply our stores in a timely manner. In particular, our business is highly dependent on the trucking industry to deliver products to our distribution centers and our stores. Our operating results may be adversely affected if we or our vendors are unable to secure adequate trucking resources at competitive prices to fulfill our delivery schedules to our distribution centers or our stores. Our stock price may be subject to volatility. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, many of which are beyond our control, such as: • general economic conditions; • changes in interest rates; • conditions or trends in the retail book, electronic commerce trade and real estate industries; • fluctuations in the stock market in general; • quarterly variations in operating results; • new products, services, innovations and strategic developments by our competitors or us, or business combinations and investments by our competitors or us; • changes in financial estimates by us (if any) or securities analysts and recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in regulation; • changes in our capital structure, including issuance of additional debt or equity to the public; • corporate restructurings, including layoffs or closures of facilities; • changes in the valuation methodology of, or performance by, others in our industries; and • transactions in our common stock by major investors, and analyst reports, news and speculation. Any of these events may cause our stock price to rise or fall and may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 