risk factors: • reduces triglycerides and raises the HDL or “good” cholesterol; • reduces blood pressure; • reduces heart rate; and • increases LDL and HDL cholesterol particle size. DHA and other human health benefits— Discussed below are the findings of studies that highlight the benefits of DHA on other human applications. • An independent observational study by Dr. J.M. Norris and others published in the Journal of the American Medical Association (September 2007) was designed to determine whether the intake of omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids is associated with the development of Type 1 diabetes in children. This study was conducted with a cohort of 1,770 children known to be at genetic risk for developing Type 1 diabetes. Results showed that the omega-3 fatty acid levels were inversely correlated with the risk for developing diabetes in this group of at-risk children. These investigators are further investigating this relationship in an ongoing clinical trial to determine whether DHA, specifically, has a role in Type 1 diabetes prevention. • A study by Dr. K. Connor and others published in Nature Medicine in July 2007 reported that increasing consumption of long-chain omega-3 fatty acids, including DHA, reduces destructive vascularization in the retina. In this animal study of retinopathy associated with prematurity, the authors summarize a series of experiments demonstrating that long-chain omega-3 fatty acids, and selected metabolites, are effective in reducing retinal vascular disease, which is a leading cause of blindness. A portion of these studies included Martek oils as the source of long-chain fatty acids. Life’sDHA™ is sold by Martek as an ingredient to supplement manufacturers and is also the brand name of Martek’s consumer supplement product. Martek’s Neuromins® brand, which contains life’sDHA™, is distributed by the Company and sold under license by several supplement manufacturers and can be found nationwide. We are currently marketing for food and beverage and animal feed applications to both U.S. and international companies. To date, approximately 25 domestic and international companies have launched foods or beverages that contain life’sDHA™ (see “Sales and Marketing” below). We continue to aggressively pursue further penetration of our DHA oils in the food and beverage market. We are in discussions with many companies in the food and beverage market to sell products containing our DHA oils for cognitive function, cardiovascular health and other applications. In addition, we have recently signed license and supply agreements with several major consumer food products companies that establish Martek, subject to certain exceptions, as their exclusive supplier of DHA for minimum periods of time. We, along with our customers and certain third parties, are developing other DHA delivery methods, including powders and emulsions, to facilitate further entry into the food and beverage market. Management believes that over the next few years, the food and beverage and dietary supplements markets will continue to expand and could ultimately represent a larger opportunity than infant formula. Our sales of nutritional oils for products outside of infant formula uses were $22.9 million, $11.5 million and $11.0 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. CONTRACT MANUFACTURING We provide contract manufacturing services at our Kingstree, South Carolina production facility. We began offering these services following our September 2003 acquisition of FermPro Manufacturing, LP, which had been providing third-party manufacturing services since the mid-1960’s. During this time period, Kingstree personnel have developed an expertise in large-scale fermentation with many different microorganisms, including algae, bacteria, fungi and yeast. Martek’s Kingstree plant has certain fermentation capacity designated for use in contract manufacturing. Kingstree also has numerous types of recovery equipment which allow us to efficiently customize production processes and state-of-the-art microbiological and analytical laboratories which provide highly automated product testing capabilities. Our facilities are especially well-suited for the contracted production of enzymes, specialty chemicals, vitamins, agricultural specialties and intermediates. Our contract manufacturing customers have ranged from relatively small specialty chemical companies without in-house production capabilities to very large, multinational pharmaceutical companies who require or prefer a distinct site for the manufacture of a particular product line. Our contract manufacturing revenues were $14.3 million, $14.8 million and $14.1 million for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. During fiscal 2007, we decided to narrow our contract manufacturing services to include only products with reasonable profit margins or those that we expect could have a strategic fit in the future. 7 TECHNOLOGY Martek is a leading innovator in the development of nutritional products that promote health and wellness throughout every stage of life. We leverage our knowledge of microalgae and other microorganisms and expertise in fermentation sciences and natural product isolation to develop commercially attractive, proprietary and environmentally sustainable sources of nutrients which have proven or emerging health benefits. These processes and use of the products derived from these processes form the basis of our intellectual property estate. Product development involves four major activities: discovery, process development and product formulation, product safety and efficacy evaluation, and scale-up and commercial production. Discovery — Having identified an appropriate nutritional product target, Martek screens its large database of live and preserved, genetically diverse microalgal species to identify candidate microalgal producers. Martek’s culture collection consists of microalgal strains that have been isolated from nature by Martek’s scientists and those that have been obtained from both public and private culture collections. Martek’s culture collection also includes non-microalgal microbial species, which we believe may be increasingly important in the development of future products. Martek’s microorganisms have a range of physiological and biochemical characteristics which naturally produce many different lipids, carbohydrates and proteins. Promising candidates are further developed and screened for their ability to meet desired product requirements within the desired cost structure. Process Development and Product Formulation — Commercial processes for production of candidate products are developed through application of sound scientific and engineering principles by Martek’s scientists and engineers. Martek’s processes consist of several basic steps including microbial culture inoculum germination and expansion, fermentation, and product isolation and purification. Martek’s scientists utilize a broad range of technical skills and state-of-the-art equipment of progressively larger scale to develop reproducible and economical processes. We apply standard industrial microbiological techniques to microorganisms, including classical strain development and culturing condition (growth medium composition, temperature, pH) manipulation to optimize product yield and productivity. Martek’s expertise in oil processing is broadly applicable to a number of nutrients which are lipid soluble. Finally, Martek develops suitable liquid and dry powder product forms to enable our customers to utilize our products in a broad range of desired consumer products. Martek has invested in extensive lab-scale and large pilot-scale fermentation and product recovery equipment to enable efficient and cost-effective product development and to support on-going product cost reduction efforts. While we do not utilize genetically-engineered microorganisms in the production of current commercial products, in the future we may use genetic engineering technology for the production of products at lower-cost or with improved functionality. For example, Martek successfully isolated the genes responsible for producing DHA in one commercial strain of microalgae, and is researching the use of these genes to produce low-cost seed oil DHA and long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid (“LCPUFA”) products in transgenic terrestrial oilseed crops. Product Safety and Efficacy Evaluation — In the course of product development, products undergo thorough safety testing and evaluation to assure our ability to reproducibly produce products that are safe and compliant with worldwide regulatory requirements. All commercial products are produced utilizing Good Manufacturing Practices (“GMP”) conditions appropriate for the intended food and beverage, supplement, or pharmaceutical market. The health benefits and efficacy of our products are tested and demonstrated utilizing appropriate preclinical animal models and human clinical studies. These studies are conducted by Martek, academic researchers and/or corporate partners affiliated with Martek. We are expanding our preclinical and clinical research capabilities in brain development, cognitive function, immune system health and inflammation while continuing research in eye development, eye health and cardiovascular health. Results from these studies are used to establish and support product claims for market development. Scale-up and Commercial Production — Successful exploitation of the unique characteristics of microalgae is in large measure dependent upon the availability of large-scale culturing technology. We have successfully scaled-up several strains of microalgae capable of producing large amounts of DHA heterotrophically using common organic nutrients and salts. Heterotrophic culturing of these DHA-producing microalgae at commercially viable levels enables significantly lower production costs to be achieved, which were not possible prior to our achievements. Aspects of our technology for the heterotrophic growth of DHA-producing microalgae are the subject of many U.S. and international patents and patent applications. Martek employs a systematic process to identify, develop, prosecute and defend commercially-valuable intellectual property. COLLABORATIVE AND LICENSING AGREEMENTS We have entered into license agreements with 28 infant formula manufacturers, who collectively represent approximately 70% of the estimated $8.5 to $9.5 billion worldwide wholesale market for infant formula and nearly 100% of the estimated $3.0 to $3.5 billion U.S. wholesale market for infant formula, including the wholesale value of Women, Infant & Children program (“WIC”) rebates. WIC is a federal grant program administered by the states for the benefit of low-income, nutritionally at-risk women, infants and children. Our licensees include infant formula market leaders Mead Johnson Nutritionals, Nestle, Abbott Laboratories, Wyeth and Royal Numico, each of whom is selling infant formula supplemented with our nutritional oils. In general, under these agreements, we receive up-front license fees and will receive either i) a flat rate price per kilogram upon the sale of our oils to our licensees, or ii) a transfer price on sales of our oils to our licensees plus ongoing royalties based on our licensees’ sales of infant formula products containing our oils. The most significant license agreements have remaining terms ranging from approximately 10 to 25 years, contain no future purchase commitments on our part or that of our licensees, and, generally, may be terminated by our licensees upon proper notification, which, in certain cases, only requires short notice periods. In many license agreements, our licensees have the right to buy other sources of DHA and/ or ARA oils; however, if they do so, the licensees must either make royalty payments to us upon the sale of the final infant formula product that contains the oils purchased from another source or pay us greater amounts, on a per unit basis, for the DHA or ARA that they purchase from us. 8 In May 2006, we entered into a long-term supply agreement with Mead Johnson Nutritionals, a leading worldwide infant formula producer and the largest infant formula manufacturer in the United States. Under the agreement, Martek serves as the exclusive worldwide DHA and ARA supplier for all Mead Johnson infant formula products. The agreement provides for a ten-year term with certain rights for either party to terminate the arrangement after December 31, 2011. Martek has been supplying DHA and ARA to Mead Johnson for use in infant formula under a 25-year license agreement signed in 1992, which has been incorporated into the new agreement and remains in effect. In October 2007, we entered into a long-term supply agreement with Abbott Nutrition, a leading worldwide producer of infant formula products including the Similac® Advance® brand. Under the agreement, Martek serves as Abbott’s exclusive worldwide DHA and ARA supplier for all of Abbott’s infant formula products. The agreement provides for a ten-year term with Abbott having the right to terminate the arrangement as of January 1, 2012, provided that Abbott has given twelve months prior written notice. Martek has been supplying DHA and ARA to Abbott for use in infant formula under a 25-year license agreement signed in 2000 which has been incorporated into the new agreement and remains in effect. In addition to these, we also serve as the exclusive supplier of ARA or ARA and DHA to several other infant formula licensees. Under the terms of the licensing agreements, our licensees are responsible for obtaining all necessary regulatory approvals with respect to the use of these nutritional oils in infant formula products. Under each of our current license agreements, our licensees generally are obligated to indemnify us against product liability claims relating to our nutritional oils unless our nutritional oils do not meet agreed-upon specifications. Under the terms of several of our license agreements, we are prohibited from granting a license to any party for the inclusion of our nutritional oils in infant formula with payment terms or royalty rates that are more favorable to such licensee than those provided in our agreements with our current licensees without either the prior written consent of the current licensees or prospectively offering such new favorable terms to these licensees. This restriction does not apply to any lump sum payments to us pursuant to a territorially restricted license under which the reduced payment is reasonably related to the reduced marketing opportunities available under such a restricted license. Since fiscal 2005, the Company has entered into several license and supply agreements permitting the use of life’sDHA™ in various foods and beverages. Certain of these agreements are for terms of 15 years and establish Martek, subject to certain exceptions, as the licensees’ exclusive provider of DHA for minimum periods of time. There are no minimum purchase requirements or other financial commitments to Martek under these agreements. Certain other food and beverage license and supply agreements are non-exclusive in nature and the licensee is able to purchase life’sDHA™ on an “as needed” basis, subject to certain limitations. These non-exclusive arrangements generally include product pricing to the licensee that is higher than the pricing to our licensees that have agreed to use Martek’s life’sDHA™ on an exclusive basis. In fiscal 2004, we entered into an agreement with DSM Food Specialties’ B.V. (“DSM”) extending the existing relationship between the two companies involving the production and supply of ARA, one of our nutritional oils that we sell to our infant formula licensees. Among other things, this agreement provides for the grant to Martek by DSM of a license related to certain technologies associated with the manufacture of ARA. This grant involved a license fee totaling $10 million, which is being amortized over the 15-year term of the agreement using the straight-line method. The agreement with DSM, as amended, also provides for the granting to DSM by us of an exclusive license under certain of our patents and intellectual property rights for the production by DSM of products containing ARA for non-human applications, including animal feed products as well as for certain limited human applications. In addition, we and DSM have agreed to contribute our complementary resources to cooperative marketing and joint research and development efforts to expand the applications and fields of use for ARA, with both parties sharing any economic benefits of such efforts. This agreement was amended in 2006 and 2007 as discussed below in “Production.” In December 2003, we entered into a collaboration agreement with a Canadian biotechnology company to co-develop DHA products from plants. In January 2007, an amendment to this agreement was executed, whereby we acquired exclusive license rights to the plant-based DHA technology developed by the co-collaborator for a period of at least 16 years. As consideration for this exclusive license, we made a license payment of $750,000, subject to minimum royalties of 1.5% of gross margin, as defined, on future sales by us of such plant-based DHA. During the term of the license, we may be required to pay additional royalties of up to 1.0% of gross margin, as defined, on sales of products in the future which utilize certain licensed technologies. The collaboration obligations under the agreement expired in June 2007. We have also entered into various additional collaborative research and license agreements. Under these agreements, we are required to fund research or to collaborate on the development of potential products. As of October 31, 2007, we had no material commitments to fund any future development activities under these arrangements. Certain of these agreements also commit us to make payments upon the occurrence of certain milestones and pay royalties upon the sale of certain products resulting from such collaborations. PRODUCTION We manufacture oils rich in DHA at our production facilities located in Winchester, Kentucky, and in Kingstree, South Carolina. The oils that we produce in these facilities are certified kosher by the Orthodox Union and are certified Halal by the Islamic Food and Nutrition Council of America. In addition, both manufacturing facilities have received favorable ratings by the American Institute of Baking, an independent auditor of food manufacturing facilities. Also, upon inspection of the Winchester facility, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration has granted Martek a health certificate, which is required for import of products into many countries, including China and neighboring countries in the Pacific Rim. In October 2006, we restructured our plant operations following a review of the Company’s production and cost structure. Under the restructuring, a substantial portion of production formerly taking place in Winchester was transferred to Kingstree. The restructuring has reduced manufacturing costs and operating expenses, due to improved manufacturing efficiency and a reduction in our workforce at the Winchester site. We plan to maintain the essential redundancy of dual-plant manufacturing capacity in order to mitigate production risk and to meet future expected customer demand. We believe that we can bring the Winchester assets back to full production in a matter of months as required by customer demand. 9 Our ARA oils are purchased from DSM as manufactured at its Capua, Italy and Belvidere, New Jersey plants. Because DSM is a third-party manufacturer, we have only limited control over the timing and level of its Capua and Belvidere production volumes. Under our agreement with DSM, annual ARA unit pricing is calculated utilizing a cost-plus approach that is based on the prior year’s actual costs incurred, adjusted for current year volume and cost expectations. In February 2006, we and DSM entered into an amendment to the original agreement (“the 2006 Amendment”). The 2006 Amendment established the overall economics associated with DSM’s expansion at both its Belvidere, New Jersey and Capua, Italy production facilities. We guaranteed the recovery of certain costs incurred by DSM in connection with these expansions, up to $40 million, with such amount being reduced annually through December 31, 2008 (the “Recoupment Period”) based upon ARA purchases by us in excess of specified minimum thresholds. As of October 31, 2007, we estimate that the guarantee amount has been reduced to approximately $25.0 million. The guarantee amount payable, if any, at the end of the Recoupment Period must be paid by January 31, 2009. The amount paid, if any, will be credited against a portion of DSM invoices for purchases made after the Recoupment Period. In July 2007, we and DSM entered into a second amendment to the original agreement (“the 2007 Amendment”). The 2007 Amendment finalized ARA pricing to us for calendar 2007 as well as the parameters and methodologies for the establishment of ARA pricing for calendar years 2008, 2009 and, if certain criteria are met, 2010. The 2007 Amendment also established minimum ARA purchase quantities for us during calendar years 2007 and 2008. As of October 31, 2007, the value of the remaining calendar 2007 and full 2008 minimum purchase requirements are approximately $16 million and $97 million, respectively. The minimum purchase quantities for 2007 and 2008 approximate the amounts expected to be purchased by us in the normal course of business during the respective periods. We have attempted to reduce the risk inherent in having a single supplier, such as DSM, through certain elements of our supply agreement with DSM. In connection with this agreement, we have the ability to produce, either directly or through a third party, an unlimited amount of ARA. The sale of such self-produced ARA is limited annually, however, to the greater of (i) 100 tons of ARA oil or (ii) any amounts ordered by us that DSM is unable to fulfill. We have demonstrated the ability to produce limited amounts of ARA in our plants. To further improve our overall ARA supply chain, we have directly engaged a U.S.-based provider of certain post-fermentation ARA manufacturing services. Along with our ARA downstream processing capabilities at Kingstree and Winchester, this third-party facility provides us with multiple U.S. sites for the full downstream processing of ARA. When combining our current DHA production capabilities in Winchester and Kingstree with DSM’s current ARA production capabilities in Italy and the U.S., we have production capacity for DHA and ARA products in excess of $500 million in annualized sales to the infant formula and perinatal market and the food, beverage and dietary supplement market. As such, our production capabilities exceed current demand; however, we have the ability to manage production levels and, to a certain extent, control our manufacturing costs. Nonetheless, when experiencing excess capacity, we may be unable to produce the required quantities of oil cost-effectively due to the existence of significant levels of fixed production costs at our plants and the plants of our suppliers. The commercial success of our nutritional oils will depend, in part, on our ability to manufacture these oils or have them manufactured at large scale on a routine basis and at a commercially acceptable cost. Our success will also be somewhat dependent on our ability to align our production with customer demand, which is inherently uncertain. There can also be no assurance that we will be able to continue to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, including GMP requirements. Under the terms of several of our infant formula licenses, those licensees may elect to manufacture these oils themselves. We are currently unaware of any of our licensees producing our oils or preparing to produce our oils, and estimate that it would take a licensee a minimum of one year to implement a process for making our oils. SOURCES OF SUPPLY Our raw material suppliers for production of DHA oil include major chemical companies and food and beverage ingredient suppliers. We have identified and validated multiple sources for each of our major ingredients and do not anticipate that the lack of availability of raw materials will cause future production shortages. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Our research and development focus areas include: (i) improving manufacturing processes; (ii) broadening the scientific evidence supporting the benefits of life’sDHA™ throughout life; (iii) developing new food and beverage applications for life’sDHA™; and (iv) developing new products to expand market offerings. We perform research and development at our Columbia, Maryland and Boulder, Colorado facilities as well as at our Winchester, Kentucky facility. Our research and development expenditures in fiscal 2007 included development activity at the Columbia, Maryland lab directed toward improving the quality, sensory properties and stability of our nutritional oils, developing new ingredient forms and applications technology for DHA-enriched food and beverage products, optimizing production characteristics of microalgal strains, investigating the clinical health benefits of DHA and ARA fatty acids, and exploring the biochemical pathways utilized by microalgae to produce DHA. Additional research and development expenses incurred at our Winchester facility were directed towards increasing our DHA production yields, improving our ability to produce ARA, reducing waste and continuing to improve the overall quality of our oils. Research conducted at our lab in Boulder, Colorado is focused on developing feasible approaches to the expression of nutritional fatty acids, especially DHA, in plant oilseeds and investigating the feasibility of utilizing our proprietary genes to produce other bioactive compounds with applications in the health and wellness fields. We incurred total research and development expense of approximately $24.9 million, $24.0 million and $19.4 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 10 SALES AND MARKETING Our nutritional oils are marketed and sold primarily to the infant formula, dietary supplement, animal feed and food and beverage industries. Infant formula manufacturers are required to purchase a license from us in order to use our DHA and ARA oils in infant formula. To date, we have entered into license agreements with 28 infant formula manufacturers who represent approximately 70% of the world’s wholesale infant formula market. Our licensees include infant formula market leaders Mead Johnson Nutritionals, Nestle, Abbott Laboratories, Wyeth and Royal Numico, each of whom is selling infant formula supplemented with our nutritional oils. Due to the success of the supplemented infant formula products, several of our licensees are also selling extension products beyond infant formula, which contain our oils and are targeted to children ages nine months to three years of age. In addition, our customers are currently selling products containing life’sDHA™ targeted to pregnant and nursing women as follows: • Mead Johnson Nutritionals’ Expecta™LIPIL® • Life Fitness’ Life’s DHA™ Prenatal Multivitamin and DHA (exclusively at CVS/pharmacy and online at CVS.com) • British Biologicals’ Pro-PL Protein Supplement • Everett Laboratories’ prescription prenatal supplement Vitafol® -OB+DHA • Sciele Pharma, Inc.’s prescription prenatal supplement OptiNate™ • Mission Pharmacal’s prescription prenatal supplement Citracal® Prenatal + DHA and Citracal® Prenatal 90 + DHA • Vincent Foods, LLC’s Oh Mama! nutrition bars • NutraBella’s Bellybar™ nutrition bars (expanded to entire product line) Life’sDHA™ is sold as an ingredient to supplement manufacturers and is also a branded supplement sold directly by Martek. Neuromins® is a Martek supplement brand that is distributed and sold nationwide under license by several supplement manufacturers. We are currently marketing food and beverage and animal feed applications to both U.S. and international companies. The following food and beverage products currently contain life’sDHA™ and are co-branded with the life’sDHA™ logo: • Gold Circle Farms®’s eggs and liquid eggs (United States and Europe) • Priégola’s Simbi + Omega-3 yogurt (Spain) • Odwalla, Inc.’s and Soy Smart™ soymilk drinks (United States) • Dynamic Confections’ Botticelli Choco-Omeg® line of nutritional bars (Canada) • Flora, Inc.’s Udo’s Choice® DHA Oil Blend (United States) • Latteria Merano/Milchhof Meran’s Mente Viva™ fortified drinkable yogurt (Italy) • Centrale Del Latte Di Brescia’s Sprintissimo™ fortified drinkable yogurt (Italy) • Life Science Nutritionals’ Nutri-Kids Nutrition-to-Go™ ready-to-drink milk product (United States and Canada) • General Mills’ Yoplait Kids® yogurt and Yoplait Kids yogurt drink (United States) • ZenSoy’s Soy on the Go Soymilk (United States) • FoodTech International’s Veggie Patch™ All Natural California Veggie Burgers (United States) • NuGo Nutrition’s NuGo Organic™ snack bars (United States) • Fuji Food Products’ Fujisan sushi products (United States) • Parmalat Australia’s Vaalia brand yoghurts for infants, toddlers and adults (Australia) • Danone S.A.’s Danonino Petit Genio children’s drinkable yogurt (Spain) • Dean Foods Company (including WhiteWave Foods) products: • WhiteWave Foods’ Horizon Organic® Milk Plus DHA (United States) • WhiteWave Foods’ Silk® Plus Omega-3 DHA Soymilk (United States and Canada) • WhiteWave Foods’ Rachel’s® Wickedly Delicious Yogurt (United States) • Central Lechera Asturiana’s ABC infant yogurt (Spain) • National Foods’ Pura® Kids milk product (Australia) • Stremicks Heritage Foods™ Organic Milk Enriched with Omega-3 DHA (United States) • Breyers Yogurt Company’s Breyers Smart! Yogurt (United States) • Minute Maid® Pomegranate Blueberry Flavored 100% fruit juice blend (United States) • Beech-Nut® DHA Plus with life’sDHA™ baby food and cereals (United States) • British Biologicals’ Kids-Pro Nutrition Drink (India) • Ricos® Cheese Sauce (United States) We continue to aggressively pursue further penetration of our DHA oils in the food and beverage market. We are in discussions with many companies in the food and beverage market to sell products containing our DHA oils for cognitive function, cardiovascular health and other benefits. In addition, we have recently signed license and supply agreements with several major consumer food products companies that establish Martek, subject to certain exceptions, as their exclusive supplier of DHA for minimum periods of time. We, along with our customers and certain third parties, are developing other DHA delivery methods, including powders and emulsions, to facilitate further entry into the food and beverage market. Management believes that over the next few years, the food and beverage and dietary supplements markets will continue to expand and could ultimately represent a larger opportunity than infant formula. Consumer marketing efforts are performed primarily by our customers although we play a supportive role. Our infant formula licensees market their DHA and ARA supplemented formulas directly to consumers and healthcare professionals. Our dietary supplement and food and beverage customers 11 also create and implement their own advertising campaigns. We support these efforts through trade show participation and targeted direct mail campaigns as well as limited advertising and public relations campaigns. In September 2006, we introduced a new brand name and logo and a new corporate logo and tagline. The purpose of this branding initiative is to support corporate partners in anticipation of product launches by accentuating Martek’s positive public image and increasing public awareness. Our flagship product is called life’sDHA™ and includes the tagline “Healthy brain, eyes, heart” which is designed to be consumer friendly and to communicate the importance of DHA for health throughout life. COMPETITION The healthcare and biological sciences industries are characterized by rapidly evolving technology and intense competition. Our competitors include major pharmaceutical, chemical, specialized biotechnology and food and beverage ingredient companies, many of whom have financial, technical and marketing resources significantly greater than ours. In addition, many specialized biotechnology companies have formed collaborations with large, established companies to support research, development and commercialization of products and technologies that may be competitive with our products and technologies. Academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are also conducting research and development activities that may be competitive with our products. These organizations are seeking patent protection and may commercialize products and technologies on their own or through joint ventures that are competitive with our products and technologies. The existence of products and technologies of which we are not aware, or those that may be developed in the future, may adversely affect the marketability of the products and technologies that we have developed. Fish oil-based products currently dominate the adult DHA supplement market and certain foods containing fish oils are on the market in various parts of the world. DHA-containing fish oil for infant formula applications provides an alternative to our DHA nutritional oil and is used by certain of our licensees and other infant formula manufacturers outside the United States. In addition, in April 2006, the FDA notified the Ross Products Division of Abbott Laboratories that it had no questions at that time regarding Ross’ conclusion that DHA-rich oil from tuna and ARA-rich oil from Mortierella alpina are safe as sources of DHA and ARA in term and post-discharge preterm infant formulas. While Ross Products has the ability to introduce its oils into infant formula in the U.S., under the terms of the agreement executed by Abbott with us in October 2007, Abbott has agreed to purchase its total needs for DHA and ARA from Martek through at least 2011. Furthermore, we are not aware of any plans by any of our other licensees to incorporate this alternative DHA and ARA blend into their infant formulas. The GRAS notification, however, removes a significant regulatory hurdle to the introduction of competitive products in the U.S. Fish oil is generally less costly than our DHA oil, and therefore presents a substantial competitive threat to our DHA product line. Although fish oil is generally a lower cost product relative to our DHA, it has odor, stability and taste characteristics and potentially certain toxins that may limit its usefulness in food and beverage products. Several companies, including BASF AG, DSM and Ocean Nutrition, and a number of other companies, manufacture microencapsulated fish oil products. Although microencapsulation of the oil resolves many of the odor, stability and taste issues found with fish oil, a microencapsulated product currently is more costly than regular fish oil. Because fish oil is generally less costly than our DHA oil, even when microencapsulated, and continues to improve in quality and gain general market acceptance, fish oil presents a substantial competitive threat. We continue to work to reduce the costs of our products and to improve the sensory and stability characteristics to make it easier for our customers to incorporate our products into their products. We have also continued to refine our manufacturing processes in order to produce high levels of DHA and thereby reducing our DHA unit costs. These improvements and changes make our DHA more cost competitive with certain microencapsulated fish oils, on a price per DHA unit basis, but not on a total omega-3 basis due to the presence of large quantities of EPA and other non-DHA omega-3 fatty acids in fish oil. Published reports have cited a number of fish oils as containing chemical toxins not present in our oils. In addition, we believe the combination of low-EPA fish oil with a microbial source of ARA for use in infant formula would likely infringe upon our patent position in several countries. Reliant Pharmaceuticals, which as recently announced will be acquired by GlaxoSmithKline, is currently selling LOVAZA™, a prescription DHA/ EPA ethyl ester for treatment of hyperlipidemia. LOVAZA™ is a lipid-regulating agent which includes both EPA and DHA from fish oil. Reliant Pharmaceuticals has filed an application with the FDA for an indication that will expand the use of LOVAZA™. Other pharmaceutical applications using omega-3 fatty acids may be expected. We believe that our nutritional oils have the following advantages over fish oil and other currently available sources of DHA and ARA for use in infant formula, as food and beverage ingredients, or as dietary supplements: • our oils do not have the impurities that may limit the usefulness of DHA derived from unencapsulated fish oil; • our oils, in general, are easier to formulate in food and beverage products; • our oils can be blended in a variety of mixtures in precise ratios for specific applications, whereas the composition of fish oils may vary; • each of our oils used in infant formula is comprised of a fatty acid blend that does not contain certain other fatty acids in significant quantities such as eicosapentaenoic acid (“EPA”), which may not be appropriate for consumption by infants. • our oils do not contain substances found in certain fish and fish oils such as methylmercury, polychlorinated biphenyls (“PCBs”), dioxins and other toxic contaminants; • our oils have a higher oxidative stability and longer shelf life than fish oil and are, therefore, more amenable to the spray drying process required for powdered formula; 12 • our oils are not produced from animal sources and, therefore, should be more desirable for use in food and beverage products as the available market does not exclude consumers who require a vegetable-sourced DHA, unlike fish oil; • our oils are produced from renewable, sustainable natural resources, unlike fish oil; • our DHA and ARA-enriched oils are in an easily digestible triglyceride form similar to that found in breast milk, but different from the phospholipid form found in egg yolk lipids; and • our oils can be produced in large quantities under controlled conditions satisfying strict regulatory scrutiny. At this time, our oils are the only DHA and ARA oils used in infant formula in the U.S. Suntory Limited, Cargill Inc., through a joint venture with a company in China, and other independent Chinese manufacturers are producing and distributing a fungal source of ARA. In addition, we are aware that there may be manufacturers in China and India attempting to produce an algal source of DHA, but we are uncertain of the overall status and commercial potential of these development efforts. Other companies, several with greater financial resources than ours, are developing plant-based DHA and other companies may be developing chemically synthesized DHA. Small amounts of DHA and ARA can be derived from egg yolk lipids, but DHA and ARA of this type are not in the same molecular form as that predominantly found in breast milk (i.e., phospholipid vs. triglyceride). DHA and ARA derived from egg yolks are currently being added to some brands of infant formula marketed by Royal Numico and several smaller companies. We believe that the processes to produce DHA and ARA from egg lipids are more costly than the processes that we use for producing DHA and ARA from microbial sources. Furthermore, the addition of DHA and ARA from egg yolks at levels equivalent to those found in human breast milk may result in dietary levels of lecithin and cholesterol in excess of those found in human breast milk. In December 2005, Lonza Group LTD, a Swiss chemical and biotechnology group, acquired from Nutrinova Nutrition Specialties & Food Ingredients GmbH, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Celanese Corporation, Nutrinova’s business having as its product a DHA-rich microalgal oil. Since the acquisition, Lonza has actively marketed its DHA oil to the food, beverage and dietary supplement market in Europe and China, and was actively marketing in the United States. Nutrinova and Lonza are defendants in patent infringement actions involving our DHA patents that we have brought in both the United States and Germany. One of Nutrinova’s customers is also a defendant in these actions in Germany. In October 2006, the infringement action in the United States was tried, and a verdict favorable to Martek was returned. The jury found that the defendants infringed all the asserted claims of three Martek patents and that these patents were valid. It also found that the defendants willfully infringed one of these patents. In October 2007, the judge upheld the October 2006 jury verdict that the defendants infringed all of the asserted claims of U.S. Patent Nos. 5,340,594 and 6,410,281 (the “‘281 Patent”) and that these patents were not invalid. The judge has granted a permanent injunction against the defendants with respect to those two patents. The judge also upheld the jury verdict that the defendants had acted willfully in their infringement of the ‘281 Patent. It is likely that the defendants will appeal the decision. Regarding the third patent involved in the case, U.S. Patent No. 6,451,567, the judge reversed the jury verdict and found that the asserted claims of this patent were invalid. Martek has requested the judge to reconsider his ruling on the third patent. A hearing in the German case was held in September 2007 and the court issued its decision in October 2007, ruling that Martek’s patent was infringed by the defendants. The defendants have appealed, and the appeal is expected to be heard in early 2009. These lawsuits are further described in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” of Part I of this Form 10-K. There may be other competitive sources of DHA and ARA of which we are not aware. The fact that many of the companies mentioned above are larger, more experienced and better capitalized than Martek raises the significant risk that these companies may be able to use their resources to develop less costly sources of DHA and ARA than our current technology permits. Our competitive position will also depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific and other personnel, develop effective proprietary products, implement production and marketing plans, obtain and maintain patent protection and secure adequate capital resources. PATENTS, LICENSES AND PROPRIETARY TECHNOLOGY We have received numerous patents protecting our nutritional products technology, including the fermentation methods of producing our DHA and ARA oils, as well as the blending and use of certain DHA and/ or ARA oils in infant formula. In 1994, we received a U.S. patent covering certain blends of a microbial oil enriched with DHA and a microbial oil enriched with ARA, as well as the use of such blends in infant formulas. In 1995, we received a U.S. patent covering a process for making an edible oil containing DHA under certain specified conditions and the edible oil made by such process as well as a U.S. patent covering an infant formula comprising an edible DHA-containing oil with certain specified characteristics. In 1996, we received two additional U.S. patents covering our nutritional oils technology. The first patent protects pharmaceutical compositions and dietary supplements comprising a single cell oil in concentrations of at least 20% DHA in a triglyceride form made using our method of producing DHA oil. The second patent clarifies that our patent coverage includes the blending, in infant formula and dietary supplements, of microbially derived ARA oil with low EPA fish oils. Fish oil is a potential competitive source of DHA to Martek’s algal-derived DHA oil. This patent makes it more difficult for low EPA fish oils to be combined with microbial sources of ARA oils in the U.S. without violating our patents. A U.S. patent was granted in 1997, which protects the production, use and sale of oils rich in ARA (30% or greater concentration). In 1998, a U.S. patent was issued protecting our DHA-rich algal biomass. DHA-rich algal biomass is the raw product of the DHA fermentation process and represents an inexpensive source of DHA that may potentially be a low cost product itself. We also have been awarded a number of foreign patents covering various aspects of our nutritional oils, including European patents covering our DHA and ARA-rich oils. 13 We also own patents and applications that cover certain algal fermentation processes, lipid extraction/purification, genomic-based approaches to lipid production, arachidonic acid production and use, animal feeding protocols, and food and beverage applications for PUFAs, as a result of the OmegaTech purchase in 2002. From 1992 to 2007, eight U.S. patents were issued to us covering the use of algae in the production of omega-3 PUFAs (e.g. DHA-S), and the use of such PUFAs in such products as human foods and beverages, animal feed, aquaculture and the resulting supplemented meat, seafood, milk and eggs. Additional patent applications directed to this technology are still pending. From 1994 to 2007, eleven U.S. patents were issued covering the fermentation of microorganisms in low chloride fermentation medium. Small microorganisms, the use of such microorganisms in aquaculture, and the resulting products are also claimed. Additional patent applications covering this technology are still pending. Other U.S. patents have been issued and a number of patents are pending worldwide. Our success is largely dependent on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. Our policy is to aggressively protect our proprietary technology through patents, where appropriate, and in other cases, through trade secrets. Additionally, in certain cases, we rely on the licenses of patents and technology of third parties. We hold approximately 70 U.S. patents, covering various aspects of our technology, which will expire on various dates between 2008 and 2024. Our core infant formula-related U.S. patents expire between 2011 and 2014. Martek has been granted U.S. patents covering food and beverage products containing Martek’s DHA oil which expire between 2008 and 2009, and granted U.S. patents covering certain processes for producing DHA-containing oil that may be used in foods and beverages which expire between 2008 and 2021. In addition, Martek has several pending patents related to DHA, including products and processes, which could offer longer term protection but with uncertain commercial value at this time. We have filed, and intend to file, applications for additional patents covering both our products and processes as appropriate. Currently, we have over 300 issued patents and over 400 pending patent applications worldwide. There can be no assurance that: • any patent applications filed by, assigned to or licensed to us will be granted; • we will develop additional products that are patentable; • any patents issued to or licensed by us will provide us with any competitive advantages or adequate protection for inventions; • any patents issued to or licensed by us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others; or • issued patents, or patents that may be issued, will provide protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable. Furthermore, patent law relating to the scope of claims in the fields of healthcare and biosciences is still evolving, and our patent rights are subject to this uncertainty. European, United States and Asian patent authorities have not adopted a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed for health and bioscience patents. Our patent rights on our products therefore might conflict with the patent rights of others, whether existing now or in the future. Similarly, the products of others could infringe our patent rights. The defense and prosecution of patent claims are both costly and time consuming, even if the outcome is ultimately in our favor. An adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease selling the affected products. It is our corporate policy to vigorously protect our substantial investment in the research and development of our products and to continue to enforce our patent and other intellectual property rights against third parties who engage in the unauthorized manufacture, sale, or use of our technology. We currently have several challenges to our European patents covering our DHA and ARA oils and these challenges, as well as our lawsuit against others for infringement of our patents, are described in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings “ of Part I of this Form 10-K. Total patent litigation expenditures were approximately $2.3 million and $7.4 million in fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively, of which approximately $1.4 million and $6.7 million related to our successful patent infringement litigation against Lonza and Nutrinova. We expect that, in the future, as our nutritional oils continue to be commercialized, opposition to our intellectual property by our competitors will continue and most likely increase. We believe that additional challenges to our suite of U.S. patents may arise in the future. We will likely incur substantial costs in the future protecting and defending our patent and other intellectual property rights. If we fail to maintain patent protection for our nutritional oils or our patents expire, it would have a material adverse effect on our ability to gain a competitive advantage for these oils and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly future sales of our nutritional oils and future license fees related to sales of infant formula containing these oils. In particular, a lack of patent protection would permit our competitors to manufacture products that would be directly competitive with our nutritional oils using similar or identical processes, and it is possible that our current infant formula or food and beverage licensees or those which may be under license in the future may choose ingredients from these competitors if they choose to include the ingredients at all. Furthermore, even if our licensees continue to use our oils, direct competition could force us to reduce the price of our products which could materially affect future revenues and product margins. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how, which we seek to protect in part by confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any such breach or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. GOVERNMENT REGULATION AND PRODUCT TESTING Our products and our manufacturing and research activities are subject to varying degrees of regulation by state and federal regulatory authorities in the United States, including the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (the “FDC Act”). The products developed by us are subject to potential regulation by the FDA as food and beverage ingredients, dietary supplements, drugs and/or medical devices. The regulatory status of any product is largely determined by its intended use. 14 Drugs and medical devices generally may not be marketed without first obtaining FDA authorization to do so. New infant formulas also are subject to premarket notification requirements. Although there are no premarket authorization requirements for whole foods per se, there are premarket approval requirements for food and beverage additives. Specifically exempt from the food additive definition and, therefore, the premarket approval requirements, are generally recognized as safe food and beverage ingredients. Dietary supplements for the most part are not subject to premarket authorization requirements, although there is a premarket notification requirement for certain new dietary ingredients that were not marketed as dietary supplements prior to October 1994. The FDA has established detailed GMP, labeling and other requirements for drugs, medical devices, infant formulas, foods and beverages and dietary supplements. The requirements for drugs, medical devices and infant formulas generally are much more stringent than the requirements for foods and beverages and dietary supplements. Our infant formula licensees are responsible for obtaining the requisite regulatory clearances to market their products containing our oils. Sales of our products outside the United States are subject to foreign regulatory requirements that may vary widely from country to country. In May 2001, the FDA completed a favorable review of our generally recognized as safe (“GRAS”) notification for the use of our DHASCO® and ARASCO® oil blend in specified ratios in infant formulas. Since the first product introduction in February 2002, supplemented infant formulas manufactured by six of our licensees, Mead Johnson Nutritionals, Abbott Laboratories, PBM Products, Nestle, Hain Celestial and Nutricia North America, have been sold in the United States. The FDA regulates the use and marketing of dietary supplements under the provisions of the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994 (“DSHEA”). We are currently selling several lines of DHA dietary supplements. In addition, we are researching and developing new applications for our DHA and ARA oils. We believe that our DHA and ARA are not new dietary ingredients and, as such, are not subject to premarket notification requirements when marketed for use as dietary supplements. There can be no assurance that the FDA would agree that a premarket notification is not required or that we will be able to comply with the requirements of DSHEA or any regulations that the FDA may promulgate thereunder. In June 2002, the Australia New Zealand Food Authority authorized the use of DHA-S oil for use as a novel food ingredient in Australia and New Zealand. In June 2003, the European Commission authorized the use of our DHA-S oil as a novel food ingredient in certain foods in the European Community. This novel food designation authorizes the use of our DHA-S as an ingredient in certain foods such as certain dairy products, including cheese and yogurt (but not milk-based drinks), spreads and dressings, breakfast cereals, food supplements and dietary foods for special medical purposes in the European Community. In February 2004, the FDA completed a favorable review of our GRAS notification for the use of DHA-S in food and beverage applications. In October 2006, Health Canada approved per serving levels of Martek’s DHA of not less than eight mg and not more than 100 mg of DHA when used as a food ingredient. In June 2007, we received approval for the use of our DHA-S oil in food and beverages in Mexico. In August 2007, the Ministry of Health in China authorized the use of our life’sDHA™ as a novel food ingredient. This new designation will permit the immediate use of life’sDHA™ in foods, beverages and supplements in China for persons older than twelve months. This initial approval by the Ministry of Health is part of the regulatory process applicable to Chinese novel foods and continues through August 2009. We may then apply for a final novel food certificate. Other products derived from microalgae and other organisms may be subject to potential regulation by FDA as either medical devices or as a combination medical device/drug product to the extent that they are used in the diagnosis, mitigation, treatment, cure or prevention of diseases. Such classification would subject the products to premarket clearances and/or regulatory approvals. There can be no assurances that we or our licensees or collaborators would be able to develop the extensive safety and efficacy data needed to support such FDA premarket authorizations or that the FDA ultimately would authorize the marketing of such products on a timely basis, if at all. For potential pharmaceutical uses of products derived from microalgae and other organisms, there can be no assurance that required clinical testing will be completed successfully within any specified time period, if at all, with respect to our products. Additionally, there is no assurance that we or our licensees or collaborators will be able to develop the extensive data needed to establish the safety and efficacy of these products for approval for drug uses, or that such drug products will not be subject to regulation as biological products or as controlled substances, which would affect marketing and other requirements. Some of our products are in research or development phases. We cannot predict all of the regulatory requirements or issues that may apply to or arise in connection with our products. Changes in existing laws, regulations or policies and the adoption of new laws, regulations or policies could prevent us or our licensees or collaborators from complying with such requirements. Due to the cost and time commitment associated with the FDA regulatory process, we will decide on a product-by-product basis whether to handle relevant clearance and other requirements independently or to assign such responsibilities to our licensees or future collaborative partners. There can be no assurance that we or our licensees or collaborators will be able to obtain such regulatory clearances, if required, on a timely basis or at all. Delays in receipt of, or failure to receive, such clearances, the loss of previously received approvals or clearances, or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In connection with the manufacture of certain of our products, we are required to adhere to applicable current “good manufacturing practice” (“GMP”) regulations as required by the FDA. GMP regulations specify component and product testing standards, quality control and quality assurance requirements, and records and other documentation controls. The GMP requirements for foods and beverages, infant formulas, drugs and medical devices vary widely. As a manufacturer of DHA and ARA that are marketed as dietary supplements and used as ingredients in infant formulas sold in the United States and in foods and beverages, we are subject to GMP and various other requirements applicable to such products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to manufacture our nutritional oils in accordance with relevant dietary supplement, food and beverage and infant formula requirements for commercial use. Ongoing compliance with GMP and other applicable regulatory requirements is monitored through periodic inspections by state and federal agencies, including the FDA and comparable agencies in other countries. A determination that we are in violation of such GMP and other regulations could lead to an interruption of our production output and the imposition of civil penalties, including fines, product recalls or product seizures, and, in the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions. 15 As large scale manufacturing facilities, our plants in Winchester, Kentucky and Kingstree, South Carolina are required to abide by applicable federal and state environmental and safety laws, including regulations established by the Environmental Protection Agency (“U.S. EPA”) and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) and similar state agencies. In addition, our solvent extraction processes include the use of hexane, which is extremely flammable and subject to emission requirements. If we fail to abide by these laws we could receive fines, or if the violations were serious enough, our operations could be shut down or restricted until the problems are fixed. Such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture our nutritional oils, and our financial results could be negatively impacted. While the costs of our compliance with environmental laws and regulations cannot be predicted with certainty, such costs are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our earnings or financial or competitive position. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” of Part I of this Form 10-K for further discussion. The Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) regulates certain aspects of the advertising and marketing of our products. Under the Federal Trade Commission Act, a company must be able to substantiate both the express and implied claims that are conveyed by an advertisement. It is not uncommon for the FTC to conduct an investigation of the claims that are made about products in new and emerging areas of science that involve a potentially vulnerable population such as infants. EMPLOYEES As of October 31, 2007, we had 515 full-time employees, one of whom is an M.D. and 39 of whom have Ph.D.s. Approximately 118 employees are engaged in research and development activities, 240 are engaged in production or production development related activities and 157 are in administrative, business development and sales and marketing positions. We consider relations with our employees to be good. None of our employees is covered by a collective bargaining agreement. 16 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Our executive officers are as follows: Name Age Position Steve Dubin 54 Chief Executive Officer and Director David M. Abramson 54 President Peter L. Buzy 48 Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Executive Vice President for Finance and Administration Barney B. Easterling 62 Senior Vice President, Manufacturing Tim Fealey, Ph.D. 63 Senior Vice President and Chief Innovation Officer David M. Feitel 44 Senior Vice President and General Counsel Peter A. Nitze 49 Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President Mr. Dubin became Chief Executive Officer of Martek on June 30, 2006 after serving since September 2003 as President of Martek. Mr. Dubin joined Martek in 1992 and has served in various management positions, including CFO, Treasurer, Secretary, General Counsel and Senior Vice President of Business Development. In 2000, he moved to a part-time position of Senior Advisor — Business Development, a role he filled until his election to President of Martek in September 2003. He also spent time during 2000 through 2003 co-founding and co-managing a Maryland-based, angel-investing club that funds early-stage, high-potential businesses. He was also “Of Counsel” to the law firm Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky and Popeo, P.C. during part of 2001 and 2002. Prior to 1992, Mr. Dubin worked in the financing and management of early-stage businesses and, over a period of 12 years, served in various positions at Suburban Bank, now part of Bank of America, including Vice President and Treasurer of their venture capital subsidiary, Suburban Capital Corporation. Mr. Dubin received a B.S in accounting from the University of Maryland and a Juris Doctor degree from the George Washington University. Mr. Dubin is a Certified Public Accountant and a member of the Maryland Bar. Mr. Dubin has been a director of Martek since July 2006. His term expires in 2009. Mr. Abramson joined Martek in 2003 as head of Corporate Development and was elected President in September 2006. Prior to joining Martek, he was the Executive Vice President and General Counsel for U.S. Foodservice from 1996 to 2003. In this position, Mr. Abramson oversaw the legal and regulatory affairs of U.S. Foodservice, a large foodservice distributor in the United States, and advised on business development opportunities for this company. U.S. Foodservice became a subsidiary of Royal Ahold in 2000. In addition, Mr. Abramson was also the Executive Vice President for Legal Affairs at Ahold, U.S.A. from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Abramson also served on the Board of Directors of U.S. Foodservice from 1994 to 2003. Prior to joining U.S. Foodservice, from 1983 until 1996, Mr. Abramson was a partner at Levan, Schimel, Belman & Abramson, P.A., now a part of Miles & Stockbridge P.C. Mr. Abramson graduated from George Washington University in 1975, where he obtained a Bachelors of Business Administration in accounting. He received his Juris Doctor degree, with honors, from the University of Maryland School of Law in 1978. Mr. Abramson is a member of the Maryland Bar. Mr. Buzy joined Martek in 1998 as Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining Martek, Mr. Buzy spent 13 years with the accounting firm of Ernst & Young LLP, most recently as an audit partner in the Northern Virginia High Technology/Life Sciences Practice. Mr. Buzy is a Certified Public Accountant and a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. He received his B.S. in accounting from Salisbury University. Mr. Easterling joined Martek in 2003 in connection with Martek’s acquisition of FermPro Manufacturing, LP (“FermPro”). With the acquisition, he was named Vice President of Manufacturing of Martek, and in March 2004, he was elected to the position of Senior Vice President of Manufacturing. From 1994 to 2003, Mr. Easterling served as President and CEO of FermPro, a provider of contract fermentation services. From 1980 to 1994, Mr. Easterling served in various management capacities for Gist-Brocades. He received a B.S. in premedicine from Clemson University. Dr. Fealey joined Martek in 2007 as Senior Vice President and Chief Innovation Officer. Dr. Fealey has an extensive background in the consumer packaged goods industry in research and product development and in general management. Prior to joining Martek, Dr. Fealey served as Vice President of Corporate Research and Development at The Coca-Cola Company since 2001 where he led the creation of that company’s strategic technology platforms to support newly established global growth objectives. From 1972 to 2001, Dr. Fealey worked for The Procter and Gamble Company where most recently he served as Vice President of Worldwide Strategic Planning, Foods and Beverages. He also held other major domestic and international Procter and Gamble business development and research and development positions. Dr. Fealey attended the University of Hull, in England, where he received his BSc degree in Chemistry, Physics, and Applied Mathematics. He received his Ph.D. in Inorganic-Physical Chemistry from Georgetown University, Washington, D.C., and his MBA from the University of Chicago. Dr. Fealey served as a Visiting Professor of Operations and Production Management for the undergraduate and MBA programs of Indiana State University School of Business during the 2001-2002 academic year. He is the author or co-author of a number of publications based on his research during his tenure as a professor. Mr. Feitel joined Martek in 2004 as Associate General Counsel and was elected to the position of Senior Vice President and General Counsel in December 2006. From 2003 until joining Martek, he practiced law at Miles & Stockbridge P.C., where he had started his legal career in 1988. From 2000 to 2003, Mr. Feitel was the Vice President and General Counsel of BCE Emergis, an eCommerce service provider and a subsidiary of Bell Canada. Prior to BCE Emergis, Mr. Feitel worked for the Discovery Group, a Columbus, Ohio-based venture capital company, from 1997 through 2000. Mr. Feitel received his undergraduate degree from Duke University and his Juris Doctor from the Duke University School of Law in 1988. 17 Mr. Nitze joined Martek in 2005 as Chief Operating Officer. Prior to joining Martek, Mr. Nitze served as Vice President of Operations at DRS Technologies, with responsibility for the alignment and deployment of the company’s manufacturing and supply chain resources. Before joining DRS Technologies, Mr. Nitze served as the Chief Operating Officer of Regulatory DataCorp, a New York City firm that provides risk management services to financial services institutions, from July 2002 to April 2004. Prior to joining Regulatory DataCorp, Mr. Nitze was the business leader of the Optoelectronics venture at Honeywell International from February 2000 to November 2001, where he had previously served as the head of global operations for the Amorphous Metals division. Mr. Nitze began his career at General Electric Co. in finance and subsequently held a variety of positions in engineering, marketing, supply chain and operations management. Mr. Nitze has over 20 years of operations and general management experience with small, medium and large companies. He holds two M.S. degrees in engineering from Stanford University and a B.A. degree from Harvard University. COMPANY Martek was incorporated in Delaware in 1985. Martek’s principal executive offices are located at 6480 Dobbin Road, Columbia, Maryland 21045. Our telephone number is (410) 740-0081 and our website address is http://www.martek.com. We make our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports available on our website free of charge as soon as practicable after we file with the SEC. Financial information prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, including information about revenues from customers, measures of profit and loss, total assets, financial information regarding geographic areas and export sales, can be found in our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,“of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 18 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risk factors set forth herein, as well as other information we include in this report and the additional information in the other reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC” or the “Commission”). If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. A substantial portion of our nutritional oil products sales is made to four of our existing customers under agreements with no minimum purchase requirements. If demand by these customers for our nutritional oil products decreases, our revenues may materially decline. We rely on a substantial portion of our product sales to four of our existing customers. Approximately 80% of our product sales revenue during the year ended October 31, 2007 was generated by sales of DHA and ARA to four customers: Mead Johnson Nutritionals, Abbott Laboratories, Nestle and Wyeth. We cannot guarantee that these customers will continue to demand our nutritional products at current or predictable levels. None of our license agreements requires our licensees to purchase any minimum amount of products from us now or in the future, and certain of our license agreements can be terminated within short periods and also allow our licensees to manufacture our products themselves or purchase nutritional oils from other sources. We have limited visibility into our customers’ future actual level of demand, notwithstanding our view of consumer demand. If demand by any of our significant customers for our nutritional products decreases, we may experience a material decline in our revenues. Furthermore, if purchasing patterns by our significant customers continue to be uneven or inconsistent, we will likely experience fluctuations in our quarter-to-quarter revenues. In addition, if these customers attempt to utilize their purchasing power in order to receive price reductions on our products, we may be unable to maintain prices of our oils at current levels, which could materially affect future revenues and product margins. Our major customers are part of either the pharmaceutical or food and beverage industries. Mergers and acquisitions are prevalent in both industries. If one of our major customers or divisions thereof are acquired, as there are no minimum purchase requirements in our license agreements with them, there is no guarantee that the acquirer will continue purchasing our oils at current levels or continue selling infant formula at all. An acquisition of one of our major customers could have a material effect on future revenues. Our major customers also employ differing strategies with respect to the timing of their inventory and raw material purchases. To the extent that these strategies change (i.e., further advancements to a “just-in-time” procurement process), our revenues in the quarter of such change could be materially affected by this modification in customer ordering patterns. In addition, our major customers use varying inclusion levels of DHA and ARA in their infant formulas. If significant changes in their market shares occur, we could experience material changes in our infant formula revenues. We are aware of several products that are currently available, and products under development, that may present a serious competitive threat to our products. If we are unable to maintain a competitive differentiation from these products, our revenues may be adversely affected. Our continued success and growth depends upon achieving and maintaining a superior competitive position in the infant formula, supplement and food and beverage product markets. Many potential competitors, which include companies such as BASF AG, DSM, Cargill Inc., Suntory Limited, Archer Daniels Midland Company, Lonza Group LTD, Nagase & Co. Ltd. and Ocean Nutrition, have substantially greater research and development capabilities, marketing, financial and managerial resources and experience in the industry. Some of these competitors are currently offering competing sources of DHA and/or ARA for use in the food and beverage and dietary supplement markets and for use in infant formula. If a competitor develops a better or less expensive product or technology, our competitors’ products gain widespread acceptance, our patents expire, or we lose our patents, the sales of our products may be materially adversely affected and our technologies rendered obsolete. In addition to the Lonza and Nutrinova matters described below, we are aware that other sources of DHA and ARA are or may be available, any of which could represent a competitive threat that could seriously harm our product sales. Specifically: • The Ross Products Division of Abbott Laboratories, a significant Martek licensee and customer, filed a generally recognized as safe notification on January 2, 2002 seeking Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) concurrence that its tuna oil source of DHA and its fungal source of ARA, as manufactured by Suntory Limited, are generally recognized as safe when used as ingredients in infant formula. In April 2006, the FDA notified Ross Products that it had no questions at that time regarding Ross’ conclusion that DHA-rich oil from tuna and ARA-rich oil from Mortierella alpina are safe as sources of DHA and ARA in term and post-discharge preterm infant formulas. While Ross Products has not announced any introduction of its oils into infant formula in the U.S. and has agreed to purchase its total needs for DHA and ARA from us through at least 2011, and while we are not aware of any plans by our other licensees to do so, the GRAS notification removes a significant regulatory hurdle to the introduction of competitive products in the U.S. • Reliant Pharmaceuticals, which as recently announced will be acquired by GlaxoSmithKline, is currently selling LOVAZA™, a prescription DHA/ EPA ethyl ester for treatment of hyperlipidemia. LOVAZA™ is a lipid-regulating agent which includes both EPA and DHA from fish oil. Reliant Pharmaceuticals has recently filed an application with the FDA for an indication that will expand the use of LOVAZA™. Other pharmaceutical applications using omega-3 fatty acids may be expected. • Suntory Limited, Cargill Inc., through a joint venture with a company in China, and other independent Chinese manufacturers are producing and distributing a fungal source of ARA. In addition, we are aware that there may be manufacturers in China and India attempting to produce an algal source of DHA, but we are uncertain of the overall status and commercial potential of these development efforts. • Some infant formulas now on the market outside the United States, including those marketed by certain of Martek’s licensees, use DHA derived from other sources, such as fish oil or eggs. 19 • In December 2005, Lonza Group LTD, a Swiss chemical and biotechnology group, acquired from Nutrinova Specialties & Food Ingredients GmbH, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Celanese Corporation, Nutrinova’s business having as its product a DHA-rich microalgal oil. Since the acquisition, Lonza has actively marketed its DHA oil to the food, beverage and dietary supplement market in Europe and China, and was actively marketing in the United States. Nutrinova and Lonza are defendants in patent infringement actions involving our DHA patents that we have brought in both the United States and Germany. One of Nutrinova’s customers is also a defendant in these actions in Germany. These lawsuits are further described below in the risk factor regarding patent protection and in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” of Part I of this Form 10-K. • Other companies, several with greater financial resources than ours, are developing plant-based DHA and other companies may be developing chemically synthesized DHA. • Several large companies, including BASF AG, DSM and Ocean Nutrition, and a number of smaller companies, manufacture microencapsulated fish oil products. Although microencapsulation of the oil resolves many of the odor, stability and taste issues found with fish oil, a microencapsulated product currently is more costly than regular fish oil. Fish oil-based products (i) are used as a DHA source by some infant formula companies, (ii) currently dominate the adult DHA supplement market and (iii) are included in certain foods on the market in various parts of the world. Because fish oil is generally less costly than our DHA oil, even when microencapsulated, and continues to improve in quality and gain general market acceptance, fish oil presents a substantial competitive threat. If we are unable to obtain or maintain patent protection or if our patents do not provide protection against competitive products, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our success is largely dependent on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. Our policy is to aggressively protect our proprietary technology through patents, where appropriate, and in other cases, through trade secrets. Additionally, in certain cases, we rely on the licenses of patents and technology of third parties. We hold approximately 70 U.S. patents, covering various aspects of our technology, which will expire on various dates between 2008 and 2024. Our core infant formula-related U.S. patents expire between 2011 and 2014. We have been granted U.S. patents covering food and beverage products containing Martek’s DHA oil which expire between 2008 and 2009, and granted U.S. patents covering certain processes for producing DHA-containing oil that may be used in foods and beverages which expire between 2008 and 2021. We have filed, and intend to file, applications for additional patents covering both our products and processes as appropriate. Currently, we have over 300 issued patents and over 400 pending patent applications worldwide. There can be no assurance that (i) any patent applications filed by, assigned to or licensed to us will be granted; (ii) we will develop additional products that are patentable; (iii) any patents issued to or licensed by us will provide us with any competitive advantages or adequate protection for inventions; (iv) any patents issued to or licensed by us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others; or (v) issued patents, or patents that may be issued, will provide protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable. Furthermore, patent law relating to the scope of claims in the fields of healthcare and biosciences is still evolving, and our patent rights are subject to this uncertainty. European, United States and Asian patent authorities have not adopted a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed for health and bioscience patents. Our patent rights on our products therefore might conflict with the patent rights of others, whether existing now or in the future. Similarly, the products of others could infringe our patent rights. The defense and prosecution of patent claims are both costly and time consuming, even if the outcome is ultimately in our favor. An adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease selling the affected products. In certain competitive geographic markets, we do not have patent protection and may be unable to obtain it. In other competitive markets, we may be unable to maintain (through patent expiration or otherwise) the patent protection for our nutritional oils currently afforded to us. A lack of patent protection would have a material adverse effect on our ability to gain a competitive advantage for these oils and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly future sales of our nutritional oils and future license fees related to sales of infant formula containing these oils. In particular, a lack of patent protection would permit our competitors to manufacture products that would be directly competitive with our nutritional oils using similar or identical processes, and it is possible that our current infant formula or food and beverage licensees or those which may be under license in the future may choose ingredients from these competitors if they choose to include the ingredients at all. Furthermore, even if our licensees continue to use our oils, direct competition could force us to reduce the price of our products, which could materially affect future revenues and product margins. A number of other competitors have challenged our patents, particularly in Europe: • Aventis S.A. and Nagase & Co. Ltd. are challenging our European patent covering our DHA-containing oils. At a hearing in October 2000, the Opposition Division of the European Patent Office (“EPO”) revoked our patent on the grounds that it was not novel. We immediately appealed this ruling, and in July 2002 we received a positive ruling from an Appeal Board of the EPO, setting aside the prior decision to revoke this patent. The patent was returned to the Opposition Division for a determination as to whether it has met the legal requirement of “inventive step”. A hearing in August 2005 resulted in a ruling by the Opposition Division that this requirement had been met and the validity of the patent was upheld. Aventis appealed the decision to the Appeal Board of the EPO. Martek filed its answer to Aventis’ grounds for appeal in July 2006. The appeal process is expected to be completed in late 2008 or early 2009. Claim 1 of this patent is the basis of the patent infringement suit against Nutrinova and Lonza in Germany, discussed below. • With respect to our ARA patent issued by the EPO, BASF AG, Friesland Brands B.V., and Suntory Limited filed their grounds for opposing this patent with the Opposition Division of the EPO. At a hearing at the Opposition Division in April 2005, the Opposition Division of the EPO upheld the patent in a form containing modified claims that were narrower than the claims originally granted. In an effort to broaden the claims of the patent, we appealed the decision. Suntory and BASF also appealed. Friesland Brands B.V. withdrew from the opposition. In April 2007, the EPO granted another patent to Martek for ARA oil made from Martek’s microbial source for use in infant formula. The newly granted divisional patent strengthens Martek’s intellectual property position by providing commercially significant protection through the expiration date of the original patent, January 22, 2012. In light of this newly granted divisional patent, the Company withdrew 20 from the appeal it had previously filed related to its original European ARA patent for infant formula that was upheld with narrowed claims by the EPO in April 2005. The original patent will no longer be in force and effect. • With respect to our blended oil (blend of DHA and ARA oils for use in various applications, including infant formula) patent issued by the EPO, BASF AG and Suntory Limited filed their grounds for opposing this patent with the Opposition Division of the EPO. In November 2004, the Opposition Division of the EPO revoked Martek’s European blended oil patent as a result of these challenges. We immediately filed an appeal and during the hearing before the Appeal Board of the EPO in February 2007, Martek decided to withdraw its appeal. As a result, the patent was revoked. Martek is pursuing protection for its blended oil technology in Europe through related pending patent applications. • Prior to our purchase of OmegaTech, Aventis Research and Technologies GmbH & Co. KG, and Nagase Limited challenged OmegaTech’s European patent covering its DHA-containing oils. At a hearing in December 2000, the Opposition Division of the EPO upheld some of the claims and revoked other claims. OmegaTech immediately appealed this ruling, as did Aventis. At an appeal hearing in May 2005, we received a favorable decision from the Appeal Board of the EPO, which overturned the decision of the Opposition Division and returned the case to the Opposition Division for review on the merits of the patent claims. In a November 2007 hearing, the Opposition Division upheld claims that are narrower than the claims originally granted but broader than the claims that were previously upheld in the December 2000 Opposition Division hearing. In the event of an appeal, the review process is not expected to be completed before 2009, during which time the patent will remain in full force and effect. • An EPO Opposition Division hearing was held on November 15, 2005, with respect to a European DHA patent acquired by Martek as part of the OmegaTech purchase. The patent was upheld in modified form. This patent is directed to processes for fermenting Thraustochytrium and Schizochytrium under low chloride conditions and the resulting products. Nutrinova Nutrition Specialities & Food Ingredients GmbH is the only opponent, and has appealed. The appeal process is expected to be completed in late 2008 or early 2009. • In September 2003, we filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the U.S. District Court in Delaware against Nutrinova Inc., Nutrinova Nutrition Specialties & Food Ingredients GmbH, Celanese Ventures GmbH, and Celanese AG. Celanese Ventures GmbH and Celanese AG were dropped from the lawsuit. Lonza Ltd. was added to the lawsuit. In October 2006, after an almost two week trial in Wilmington, Delaware, the jury returned a favorable verdict to Martek, deciding that all three of the asserted Martek DHA patents were valid and infringed, and that one was willfully infringed. In October 2007, the judge upheld the October 2006 jury verdict that the defendants infringed all of the asserted claims of U.S. Patent Nos. 5,340,594 and 6,410,281 (the “‘281 Patent”) and that these patents were not invalid. The judge has granted a permanent injunction against the defendants with respect to those two patents. The judge also upheld the jury verdict that the defendants had acted willfully in their infringement of the ‘281 Patent. It is likely that the defendants will appeal the decision. Regarding the third patent involved in the case, U.S. Patent No. 6,451,567, the judge reversed the jury verdict and found that the asserted claims of this patent were invalid. Martek has requested the judge to reconsider his ruling on the third patent. • We also filed a patent infringement suit involving Nutrinova Nutrition Specialties & Food Ingredients GmbH and Celanese Ventures GmbH in Germany in January 2004. Lonza Ltd. and a customer of Nutrinova have also been added to this lawsuit. The complaint alleges infringement of our European patent relating to DHA-containing oils. A hearing was held in a district court in Dusseldorf in September 2007 and the court issued its decision in October 2007, ruling that Martek’s patent was infringed by the defendants. The defendants have appealed, and the appeal is expected to be heard in early 2009. • With respect to our ARA patent in South Korea, Suntory has filed an opposition. A hearing on the matter was held in late January 2006 and the Korean Intellectual Property Office Examiners ruled against Martek. Martek appealed. The appeal brief was filed in February 2007 and Suntory responded in August 2007. The Korean Intellectual Property Office ruled against Martek in September 2007, and we appealed to the Patent Court in October 2007. The patent will remain in full force and effect during the pendency of the appeal. • Suntory has also initiated an invalidation case against our blended oil patent in South Korea. Our response to Suntory was filed in February 2005, Suntory responded in March 2006 and Martek filed further submissions in May 2006. A hearing was held in July 2006. A ruling against Martek was issued in February 2007. Martek appealed in April 2007. The patent will remain in full force and effect during the pendency of the appeal process. • There are additional intellectual property oppositions pending against Martek that are not considered material. If any of the challenges described above or any other challenges to our patents that we do not currently consider material or that may arise in the future are successful, our competitors may be able to produce similar products and, as a result, we may experience decreases in the future sales of our nutritional oils or we may be forced to reduce the price of our products, which could also cause decreases in future revenues as well as product margins. Specifically, the revocation of our European DHA patent or ARA patent could result in a decrease in revenues under our license agreements. In addition, if our products are found to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we may have to pay substantial damages. Furthermore, it is our accounting policy to capitalize legal and related costs incurred in connection with patent applications and the defense of our patents. As of October 31, 2007, the net book value of our patent assets totaled $16.6 million, which includes approximately $8.4 million of costs related to our patent defenses in the Nutrinova/ Lonza matters discussed above, which will be amortized over a remaining period of approximately 5 years. If, in the future, it is determined to be unlikely that our patents will be successfully defended in connection with the challenges described above or if it is concluded that certain of our patents will no longer provide an economic benefit to the Company, a write-off of the costs ascribed to the particular patent or patents would be required. The effect of such write-off could be material to our results of operations. 21 We expect that in the future, as our nutritional oils continue to be commercialized, opposition to our intellectual property by our competitors will continue and most likely increase. We may incur substantial costs in the future protecting and defending our patents and cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully defend our patents or that our competitors will not be able to “design around” our intellectual property. If our food and beverage customers do not introduce products containing our nutritional oils on a broad scale into the marketplace and consumers do not purchase such products, our sales to the food and beverage market will be limited. We are continuing to aggressively pursue further penetration of our DHA oils in the food and beverage market. To this end, we have signed license and supply agreements with several consumer food and beverage products companies. Our success in penetrating this market, however, is dependent upon these food and beverage customers introducing products that contain our nutritional oils into the marketplace and is further dependent upon the end consumer purchasing such products. Although some of our customers have launched food or beverage products containing our oils, we cannot control whether our existing customers or potential new customers will continue to do so in the future, nor can we control whether our current or future customers will follow through with their planned launches of products containing our oils. Furthermore, as a broad scale product launch by our customers is likely dependent on actual or perceived consumer demand, which is inherently uncertain, we cannot control whether our customers will broadly distribute such DHA-enriched products or offer them beyond niche products or line extensions. If our food and beverage customers do not introduce products containing our nutritional oils on a broad scale into the marketplace and end consumers do not purchase such products, our sales to the food and beverage market would be limited. Our oils are very sensitive to oxidation and may not be very compatible with many liquid or dry foods that are currently on the market. If economical methods are not developed to successfully incorporate our oils into various food and beverage applications, we may never be able to gain large-scale entry into the food and beverage market. Due to the sensitivity of our oils to oxidation, it is possible that the sensory elements of such oils may vary over time. While we believe that the food and beverage market could be a large market for DHA supplementation with our DHA-S oil, the potential in this market would be limited if methods are not developed that allow incorporation of the oil into various foods and beverages with acceptable flavor, odor and texture for the duration of the shelf life of the food and beverage products. Furthermore, while DHA-enriched food and beverage products with acceptable flavor and stability have been developed, risks exist for other finished food and beverage products, such as cereals and certain types of nutritional bars for which DHA supplementation has not yet been successfully established. Even if we can successfully incorporate our oils into foods and beverages, manufacturers of these products will have to develop methods to demonstrate feasibility in their production and distribution processes, including the packaging, storage and handling of such products. The timing and extent of our sales into the food and beverage market, therefore, are dependent not only on market demand, but also on customer formulation, production and distribution issues over which we have little or no control. If clinical trials do not continue to yield positive results on the benefits of DHA on cognitive function, cardiovascular health or other health applications, our future revenues may be limited in the food and beverage and the dietary supplement markets. Investigators at universities and at other research centers, such as NIH, have observed a relationship between low levels of DHA and a variety of health risks, including increased cardiovascular problems, Alzheimer’s disease and dementia and various other neurological and visual disorders. We are currently trying to establish what contribution, if any, supplementation with our oils will make in addressing these problems. Although clinical data are not required to market food and beverage ingredients or dietary supplements outside of the infant formula market, we believe that further clinical studies may be needed to validate the benefits of DHA supplementation in order to gain widespread entry into these markets. If clinical trials do not continue to yield positive results on the benefits of DHA or if these benefits are not considered significant by our targeted consumers, our future revenues in these markets may be limited. If our oils are unable to be used in organic food and beverage products, the opportunity for sales of our oils into the food and beverage market will be limited to non-organic products. The Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 required the U.S. Department of Agriculture (“USDA”) to develop national standards for organically produced agricultural products to assure consumers that agricultural products marketed as organic meet consistent, uniform standards. Accordingly, the USDA has put in place a set of national standards (the “National Organic Program” or “NOP”) that food labeled “organic” must meet, whether it is grown in the United States or imported from other countries. Under the NOP regulations, only a USDA-accredited certifying agent may make the determination that a food product may be labeled as organic. Martek is not a USDA-accredited certifying agent. Some of our customers have obtained organic certification from USDA-accredited certifying agents and have received authorization to use the USDA’s organic seal on certain products that contain our oils. In some instances, such products have been further reviewed and the authorization to use Martek’s oils has been explicitly ratified by the USDA. Because the NOP regulations are subject to change and interpretation, there can be no guarantee that our oils will be acceptable for use in all organic products. Organic food sales accounted for approximately 3% of the total U.S. food sales in 2006; however, we believe that interest from food manufacturers in producing and selling organic products is expanding. If our oils are ineligible for inclusion in some products that bear the USDA organic seal, our sales opportunity in the food and beverage market may be adversely impacted. Because food and beverage pricing is very competitive, the premium that our oils adds to the cost of the food or beverage may never allow it to be priced at levels that will allow acceptance by consumers. Food and beverage pricing is very competitive and the market is very sensitive to product price changes. Because the inclusion of our oils may add to the retail cost of these products, there is the risk that our potential customers in this market may not be able to sell supplemented products at prices that will allow them to gain market acceptance while, at the same time, remaining profitable. This may lead to price pressure on us. If we have to reduce our prices, we may not be able to sell our oils to the food and beverage market at a price that would enable us to sell them profitably. 22 If we are unable to gain broad regulatory approvals for the incorporation of our oils into foods and beverages worldwide, our future revenues in the food and beverage market may be limited. To date, our DHA-S oil has received regulatory approval for inclusion in foods and beverages, with certain country-specific limitations, in Australia, New Zealand, the European Community, the United States, Canada, Mexico and China. With respect to approvals in Europe, this novel food designation authorizes the use of our DHA-S as an ingredient in certain foods such as certain dairy products, including cheese and yogurt (but not milk-based drinks), spreads and dressings, breakfast cereals, food supplements and dietary foods for special medical purposes in the European Community. We have been working to extend approval in Europe into additional food categories but thus far, we have been unsuccessful. We will continue efforts to extend food categories to which DHA-S oil can be added in Europe, but our ability to succeed in this regard is uncertain. In other parts of the world, laws and regulations with respect to the addition of our oils into foods and beverages are diverse and our ability to gain the necessary regulatory approvals is unclear. If we are unable to gain broad approvals for the incorporation of our oils into foods and beverages worldwide, our future revenues in the food and beverage market may be limited. If it is determined that large amounts of eicosapentaenoic acid (“EPA”) must accompany DHA in order to achieve optimal health benefits, we may never be able to gain large- scale entry into the food and beverage market. The rationale for supplementing foods and beverages with DHA is to, in part, improve overall cardiovascular system and/or central nervous system development and health. In September of 2004, the FDA authorized a qualified health claim that may be utilized for food and beverage products containing both DHA and EPA relating to the reduction of risk of coronary heart disease. No minimum amounts for either DHA or EPA were established as prerequisites for the claim. Our DHA-S oil includes limited amounts of EPA and therefore products containing the DHA-S oil qualify for use of the qualified health claim. Studies have been completed in the past to investigate the independent effects of DHA and EPA on health and additional studies may be ongoing or conducted in the future. If consensus of results from these studies establishes that relatively large amounts of EPA are required to be supplemented with DHA in order to achieve the optimal cardiovascular benefits, then our penetration of the food and beverage market may be limited. In November 2007, the FDA issued a proposed rule that would prohibit the nutrient content claims for DHA and EPA that had been authorized in three previously submitted Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act (FDAMA) notifications. FDA is proposing to prohibit the DHA and EPA nutrient content claims because the agency does not believe they are based on an authoritative statement. The FDA specifically acknowledged that it did not conduct an independent review of the scientific evidence when evaluating these nutrient content claims. We intend to submit comments in opposition to this proposed rule and it is unclear when the FDA will issue a final rule. In the event the proposed rule becomes final, the potential health benefits of consuming DHA and EPA still may be communicated through the use of a qualified health claim and/or structure/function claims that are made consistent with applicable FDA requirements and/or quantitative claims. Nonetheless, our penetration of the food and beverage market may be limited if this proposed rule is implemented. We have a single third-party supplier of our ARA with whom we have a contractual relationship. If this supplier of our ARA is unable to supply us with our required amounts of ARA or if an over-capacity situation by our supplier leads to higher cost ARA, our results of operations and/or financial position may be adversely affected. We have entered into an agreement with a third-party manufacturer, DSM, to supply us with ARA. Because DSM is a third-party manufacturer, we have only limited control over the timing and level of its Capua and Belvidere production volumes. If DSM fails to supply us with required amounts of ARA under our agreement, we would not be able to meet our customers’ demands unless we were able to utilize alternative sources of supply. In this regard, we would have to either manufacture the ARA at one or both of our plants, which may be more costly and would also reduce our DHA oil production capacity, or enter into other third-party manufacturer supply agreements, which we may not be able to do in a timely manner. Furthermore, due to certain contractual provisions, if our demand for ARA falls short of DSM’s supply capability, this excess capacity by our supplier will result in higher unit-based ARA costs to us. If we are unable to purchase or produce sufficient and/or cost-effective quantities of ARA, our future results of operations and/or financial position may be adversely affected. If customer demand for our nutritional oils requires us or our major suppliers to increase production beyond current levels, we may experience certain risks associated with the ramp-up of commercial manufacturing that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/ or results of operations. When combining our current DHA production capabilities in Winchester and Kingstree with DSM’s current ARA production capabilities in Italy and the U.S., we currently have production capacity for all DHA and ARA products in excess of $500 million in annualized sales of our oils to the infant formula, dietary supplement and food and beverage markets. Our and DSM’s ability to maintain commercial production at these higher levels has not been successfully tested. As we and our major suppliers increase our production, we may encounter many risks associated with our commercial manufacturing such as: • we may experience problems processing, handling and shipping the higher quantities of oil produced from our expanded facilities; • the costs of expanding, operating and maintaining our production facilities may exceed our expectations; • product defects may result; • lower than anticipated fermentation success rates may result; • lower downstream processing yields may result; • environmental and safety problems may result from our production process; and • regulatory issues relating to the scale-up and operations regarding our production processes may arise. If we were to experience any one or more of these problems, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/ or results of operations. 23 We have significantly increased our manufacturing capacity and have incurred substantial costs in doing so. If we are unable to increase our revenues from our nutritional oils produced at these facilities, we may continue to experience excess production capacity and we may be unable to recover these plant expansion costs, which could result in a write-down of certain production assets. In connection with our efforts to alleviate supply constraints with our infant formula licensees and to prepare for other applications of our products, we expanded our internal production capacity and incurred significant expansion costs in doing so. As of October 31, 2007, the Company had $71.8 million of production assets that are currently idle and are being held for future use. Our ability to recover the costs of these and certain other assets will depend on increased revenue from our nutritional oils produced at our facilities. There are no assurances that we will be able to achieve this goal. In accordance with SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” if it is estimated that we will not be able to ultimately recover the carrying amounts of the production assets, we would be required to record an asset impairment write-down. The effect of such write-down could be material. In addition, when experiencing excess capacity, we may be unable to produce the required quantities of oil cost-effectively, which could have a material adverse effect on our product margins and overall profitability. Failure to effectively manage our growth could disrupt our operations and prevent us from generating the revenues and gross profit margins we expect. In response to current and expected demand for our nutritional oils, we have expanded our production capabilities to meet such demand and to ensure the existence of dual-plant manufacturing redundancy. To manage our growth successfully we must implement, constantly improve and effectively utilize our operational and financial systems while expanding our production capacity and workforce. We must also maintain and strengthen the breadth and depth of our current strategic relationships while developing new relationships. Our existing or planned operational and financial systems may not be sufficient to support our growth; we may not successfully control production costs and maintain current and anticipated gross profit levels; and our management may not be able to effectively identify, manage and exploit existing and emerging market opportunities. If we do not adequately manage our growth, our business and future revenues will suffer. Experts differ in their opinions on the importance of DHA and/or ARA in infant formula and the levels of DHA and/or ARA required to achieve health benefits for babies. Some experts feel that they are not necessary ingredients for infant development. If clinical trials do not continue to yield positive results, certain favorable regulatory guidelines are not enacted or current favorable regulatory guidelines are amended, our future revenues in the infant formula market may be limited. Our continued success in the infant formula industry depends on sustained acceptance of our nutritional oils as necessary or beneficial ingredients in infant formulas. Notwithstanding existing clinical results that have demonstrated the beneficial effects of adding our nutritional oils to infant formula, some experts in the field of infant nutrition do not believe that our nutritional oils are necessary or that they provide any long-term beneficial effects. There have also been clinical studies where no beneficial effects have been found, possibly due to dose, duration or other factors. Experts generally recommend that mothers breastfeed rather than use infant formulas whether or not they contain our nutritional oils. Some experts also believe that infant formulas without our oils or with greatly reduced levels are sufficient as infants can convert precursor fats into DHA and ARA as needed. In addition, some physicians are unimpressed by studies showing that infant formulas supplemented with our oils improve infants’ cognitive ability at early ages, suggesting that these results may not carry over to improved results later in life. Due to these differences in opinion, if clinical studies do not continue to yield positive results, our future revenues in the infant formula market may be limited. Furthermore, a failure by one or more regulatory authorities to enact guidelines for minimum levels of DHA and/or ARA for supplementation of infant formula products or the issuance of regulatory guidelines that establish targeted levels of DHA and/or ARA in infant formula that are lower than levels currently being used could result in lower-potency formula products in specific affected countries, which could reduce the market opportunity for DHA and ARA ingredients. Any regulatory guidelines for infant formula that permit inclusion of DHA and ARA ingredients containing higher levels of EPA than covered in Martek’s patents could also reduce the market opportunity for Martek’s DHA and ARA ingredients in affected countries. While the Codex Alimentarius Commission, the European Union and Australia/ New Zealand all have regulations permitting the optional addition of DHA and ARA in infant formula, there are no existing regulations in any country requiring the addition of DHA and ARA. Food Standards Australia New Zealand (“FSANZ”) received an Application from the Infant Formula Manufacturers Association of Australia and the New Zealand Infant Formula Marketer’s Association seeking to amend the regulations for infant and follow-on formula. The Applicants initially requested the removal of the requirement for formula to contain long-chain omega-6 fatty acids and omega-3 fatty acids in a ratio of approximately two to one when these products are added to formula. Subsequent to an Initial Assessment by FSANZ, the Applicants modified their original Application so that it now seeks an amendment to require an omega-6 to omega-3 LCPUFA ratio that is not less than one to one. On May 23, 2007, FSANZ issued a Draft Assessment Report proposing that the preferred approach to amend the regulations would be to require an omega-6 to omega-3 LCPFUA ratio that is not less than one to one, should LCPUFAs be added to infant formula. Our opportunity in the U.S. infant formula market may be limited by the renewal rate of supplemented formulas into the Women, Infants and Children program or if the eligibility requirements for participating in the program are made more restrictive or if the amount of infant formula offered to participants is reduced. We estimate that of the total current annual U.S. market opportunity for sales of supplemented infant formula, approximately half represents Women, Infant and Children (“WIC”)-funded sales. WIC is a federal grant program that is state-administered for the benefit of low-income nutritionally at-risk women, infants and children. Most WIC state agencies provide only one brand of infant formula to its participants, depending on which company has the rebate contract in a particular state. Currently, WIC programs in 50 states and the District of Columbia offer term and certain specialty infant formula products supplemented with our oils. If supplemented formulas are removed from WIC programs that previously adopted them, eligibility requirements for participating in WIC become more restrictive, or if any of our licensees fail to renew, in a timely fashion, their contract awards from WIC agencies for the adoption of a supplemented infant formula, then our future revenues from supplemented infant formula sales in the U.S. would be limited. Further, in December 2007, the USDA, the federal agency which governs WIC, issued an interim final rule which included a reduction in the amount of infant formula to be offered through WIC. State WIC agencies have until August 2009 to implement this 24 change and the USDA is accepting comments on this interim final rule through February 2010. If there is a permanent reduction in the amount of infant formula offered through WIC, then our future infant formula revenues could be materially affected. Our business would be harmed if we fail to comply with applicable good manufacturing practices as required by the FDA. In connection with the manufacture of certain of our products, we are required to adhere to applicable current “good manufacturing practice” (“GMP”) regulations as required by the FDA. GMP regulations specify component and product testing standards, quality control and quality assurance requirements, and records and other documentation controls. As a manufacturer of DHA and ARA that are marketed as dietary supplements and used as ingredients in infant formulas sold in the United States and in food and beverages, we are subject to GMP and various other requirements applicable to such products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to manufacture our nutritional oils in accordance with relevant dietary supplement and infant formula requirements for commercial use. Ongoing compliance with GMP and other applicable regulatory requirements is monitored through periodic inspections by state and federal agencies, including the FDA and comparable agencies in other countries. A determination that we are in violation of such GMP and other regulations could lead to an interruption of our production output and the imposition of civil penalties, including fines, product recalls or product seizures, and, in the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions. Our manufacturing process involves the handling of hazardous materials and emission of regulated pollutants. If we fail to properly handle these hazardous materials and/ or emissions, substantial costs and harm to our business could result. In connection with our research and development and manufacturing activities, we utilize some hazardous materials and emit regulated pollutants. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling, discharge, management and disposal of hazardous materials and the emission of regulated pollutants. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be significant, and our ability to comply with certain emission requirements is somewhat dependent upon raw materials produced by others, over whom we have little or no control. Moreover, we could be subject to loss of our permits, government fines or penalties and/or other adverse governmental or private party action if our hazardous materials or waste products are used, stored, handled, emitted or otherwise managed in violation of law or any permit. In addition, we could be subject to liability if hazardous materials or waste are released into the environment. A substantial fine, penalty or judgment, the payment of significant environmental remediation costs or natural resource damages or property or personal injury damages, or the loss of a permit or other authorization to operate or engage in our ordinary course of business could result in material, unanticipated expenses and the possible inability to satisfy customer demand for our nutritional oils. Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable federal and state regulations. Our business is subject to extensive federal and state regulation. Current products and products in development cannot be sold if we or our customers do not obtain or maintain regulatory approvals. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program, we cannot assure you that we or our employees are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable federal and state regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations a range of actions could result, materially affecting our business and financial condition , including, but not limited to, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, including withdrawal of our products from the market, significant fines, or other sanctions. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims and recalls, which could adversely impact our financial condition and performance. Our development, manufacture and marketing of products involve an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls, product seizures and related adverse publicity. In addition, as only a small amount of our oils resides in our customers’ end product, a recall of our oils could impact a much larger recall of our customers’ end products. Insurance coverage is expensive and difficult to obtain, and we may be unable to obtain coverage in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. Although we currently maintain product liability and recall insurance for our products in the amounts we believe to be commercially reasonable, we cannot be certain that the coverage limits of our insurance policies or those of our strategic partners will be adequate. If we are unable to obtain sufficient insurance at an acceptable cost, a product liability claim or recall could adversely impact our financial condition. Furthermore, if a product liability claim is made against us or if there is a product recall, whether fully covered by insurance or not, our future sales could be adversely impacted due to, among other things, an inability to effectively market our products. We may need additional capital in the future to continue our research and development efforts, to conduct product testing, including preclinical and clinical trials, and to market our products. We may also need additional capital to expand our production capacity if market demand for our products continues to grow. As of October 31, 2007, we had approximately $21.6 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as well as $135 million of our revolving credit facility available to meet future capital requirements. We may require additional capital to fund, among other things, our research and development, product testing, and marketing activities. Our ability to meet future demand may require even further expansion of our production capability for our nutritional oils, which would also require additional capital. The timing and extent of our additional cash needs will primarily depend on: (a) the timing and extent of future launches of infant formula products containing our oils by our licensees; (b) the timing and extent of introductions of DHA into foods and beverages and/or dietary supplements for children and adults; and (c) our ability to generate profits from the sales of our nutritional products. To continue to fund our growth, we may pursue various sources of funding, which may include debt financing, equity issuances, asset-based borrowing, lease financing, and collaborative arrangements with partners. In September 2005, we amended and expanded our secured revolving credit facility to $135 million and extended the term until September 2010. This debt financing arrangement requires us to comply with financial covenants, which we may not be able to meet if demand for our products was to significantly decline, if there was a significant change in our financial position or if our cash needs are greater than we currently anticipate. Additionally, funding from other sources may not be available, or may not be available on terms that would be commercially acceptable or permit us to continue the planned commercialization of our products or expansion of our 25 production capacity. In August 2004, our shelf registration statement was declared effective by the SEC. The shelf registration statement enables us to issue debt securities, preferred stock, common stock and warrants in the aggregate amount of up to $200 million, of which approximately $110 million is currently available for future issuance. Future equity issuances may be dilutive to our existing shareholders. If we obtain funds through collaborative or strategic partners, these partners may require us to give them technology or product rights, including patent rights, that could ultimately diminish our value. If we cannot secure adequate funding, we may need to scale back our research, development, manufacturing, and commercialization programs, which may have a material adverse effect on our future business. The market price of our common stock may experience a high level of volatility due to factors such as the volatility in the market for biotechnology stocks generally, and the short-term effect of a number of possible events. We are a public growth company in the biosciences sector. As frequently occurs among these companies, the market price for our common stock may experience a high level of volatility. During the fifty-two week period ending October 31, 2007, our common stock traded between $31.00 and $19.64 per share. During the fifty-two week period ending October 31, 2006, our common stock traded between $37.22 and $20.15 per share. The following are examples of items that may significantly impact the market price for our common stock: • announcements of technical innovations, new commercial products and product launches by us or our competitors; • announcements of use of competitors’ DHA and/or ARA products by our customers; • arrangements or strategic partnerships by us or our competitors; • announcements of license agreements, acquisitions or strategic alliances; • announcements of sales by us or our competitors • announcements of results of clinical trials by us or our competitors; • patent or other intellectual property achievements or adverse developments; • quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and results of operations; • failure to enter into favorable third-party manufacturing agreements; • regulatory decisions (approvals or disapprovals) or changes concerning our products and our competitors’ products; • events related to threatened, new or existing litigation, or the results thereof; • changes in our estimates of financial performance or changes in recommendations by securities analysts; and • general market conditions for growth companies and bioscience companies. Because we may experience a high level of volatility in our common stock, you should not invest in our stock unless you are prepared to absorb a significant loss of your capital. At any given time, you may not be able to sell your shares at a price that you think is acceptable. The market liquidity for our stock is relatively low. As of October 31, 2007, we had 32,335,622 shares of common stock outstanding. The average daily trading volume in our common stock during the fifty-two week period ending October 31, 2007 was approximately 500,000 shares. Although a more active trading market may develop in the future, the limited market liquidity for our stock may affect your ability to sell at a price that is satisfactory to you. If significant shares eligible for future sales are sold, the result may depress our stock price by increasing the supply of our shares in the market at a time when demand may be limited. As of October 31, 2007, we had 32,335,622 shares of common stock and approximately 300,000 unvested restricted stock units outstanding, as well as stock options outstanding to purchase an aggregate of approximately 3.1 million shares of common stock. Of these options, approximately 2.9 million were exercisable at December 20, 2007, and approximately 1.3 million had exercise prices that were below the market price on this date. The restricted stock units will vest and common stock will issue at various dates beginning in 2008 through 2012. Furthermore, we have filed a universal shelf registration statement with the SEC, which was declared effective in August 2004, pursuant to which we may issue debt securities, preferred stock, common stock and warrants to purchase debt securities, preferred stock or common stock in an aggregate amount of up to $200 million, of which approximately $110 million is currently available for future issuance. To the extent that these options for our common stock are exercised or we issue additional shares to raise capital, the increase in the number of our outstanding shares of common stock may adversely affect the price for our common stock. This could hurt our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity securities. If we continue to require additional outside sources of capital to finance, among other things, our research and development, product testing and the manufacturing and marketing of our products, we may need to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. 26 Changes in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates could reduce profitability. A portion of the ARA we buy from DSM is denominated in euros. We expect that for fiscal 2008, approximately 25% of our ARA received from DSM will be subject to currency risk. Fluctuations in the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate can adversely impact our cost of ARA oil and our gross margins. To reduce the risk of unpredictable changes in these costs, we may, from time to time, enter into forward foreign exchange contracts. However, due to the variability of timing and amount of payments under these contracts, the forward foreign exchange contracts may not mitigate the potential adverse impact on our financial results and in fact may themselves cause financial harm. We have entered into foreign currency forward contracts with outstanding notional values aggregating approximately 3.4 million euros at October 31, 2007. We estimate that a 5% change in the exchange rate would impact gross margins of our infant formula products by less than 0.5%. We are a defendant in a putative class action lawsuit which, if determined adversely, could have a material adverse effect on us. We, our former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer were named as defendants in putative class action lawsuits filed in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. The District Court consolidated these lawsuits into one action. The consolidated complaint generally seeks recovery of unspecified damages for persons who purchased our shares during the period from December 9, 2004 through April 27, 2005. The complaint asserts claims under federal securities laws alleging that we and the individually named defendants made materially false and misleading public statements and failed to disclose material facts necessary in order to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, concerning our business and prospects. In December 2007, we announced that we had entered into a tentative settlement of all claims in the class action litigation. If approved by the court, the settlement will result in the dismissal of the claims against all defendants. The proposed settlement of the class action will result in a cash payment to the settlement fund of $6 million, all of which will be paid for out of the proceeds of the Company’s insurance policies. The parties have filed a motion in the federal court asking for approval of the proposed settlement. No assurances can be given that the settlement ultimately will be approved. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 27 