risk factors: • reduces triglycerides and raises the HDL or “good” cholesterol; • reduces blood pressure; • reduces heart rate; and • increases LDL and HDL cholesterol particle size. Neuromins® DHA, our line of dietary supplements, is distributed and sold through many leading supplement manufacturers and is available, primarily through private label, in nutritional and health products stores nationwide. We also sell our supplement line directly to consumers and healthcare professionals. We are currently marketing food and beverage and animal feed applications to both U.S. and international companies. Several egg producers, including Gold Circle Farms®, are producing eggs and liquid eggs using our DHA. These eggs are sold in several grocery store chains in the U.S. and Europe. Priégola has launched Simbi + Omega-3 yogurt with Martek DHA™, which is now available in major supermarket chains throughout Spain and is being marketed to children and adults for its brain health benefits. We are continuing to explore additional markets for our DHA and DHA-S oils including use in pharmaceuticals and other foods and beverages. We are in discussions with several companies in the nutritional and food and beverage markets to sell products containing our DHA and DHA-S oils for cognitive function, cardiovascular health and other applications and have signed a license and supply agreement with a major consumer food products company. We, along with our customers, are developing other DHA delivery methods, including powders and emulsions, to address these potential new markets. Our sales of nutritional oils for adult supplements, food additives and other products were $5.4 million, $4.0 million and $3.1 million in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. CONTRACT MANUFACTURING We provide contract manufacturing services at our Kingstree, South Carolina production facility. These services were assumed by us in connection with the September 2003 acquisition of FermPro Manufacturing, LP, who had been providing third-party manufacturing services since the mid-1960’s. During this time period, the Kingstree personnel have developed an expertise in large-scale fermentation with many different microorganisms, including algae, bacteria, fungi and yeast. Martek’s Kingstree plant has approximately 500,000 liters of fermentation designated for use in contract manufacturing with additional fermentation capacity available as required. Kingstree also has numerous types of recovery equipment which allow us to efficiently customize production processes and state-of-the-art microbiological and analytical laboratories which provide highly automated product testing capabilities. Our facilities are especially well-suited for the contracted production of enzymes, specialty chemicals, vitamins, agricultural specialties and intermediates. Our contract manufacturing customers have ranged from relatively small specialty chemical companies without in-house production capabilities to very large, multinational pharmaceutical companies who require or prefer a distinct site for the manufacture of a particular product line. Our contract manufacturing revenues were $14.1 million and $13.9 million for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 6 MARTEK DETECTION PRODUCTS We have identified, isolated and now sell powerful fluorescent dyes from various microalgae for use in drug discovery and diagnostic life science applications. Our fluorescence technology is a sensitive and direct method for detection of a specific binding event. The main advantages of fluorescence as a method of detection is that it is direct, fast, and relatively simple in that it does not require enzymatic steps for signal amplification or prolonged development times for signal measurement. Our fluorescent detection products include various fluorescent dyes used in protein detection, flow cytometry and high throughput screening. Our sales of advanced detection system products were less than $1 million in each of the last three years. TECHNOLOGY We apply our microalgal expertise and culturing technology to our library of live and preserved microalgal species and related database to achieve technical and commercial advantages. Certain fundamental and unique attributes of microalgae allow for the development and production of our products: • microalgae are a genetically diverse kingdom of organisms that have a range of physiological and biochemical characteristics; thus, they naturally produce many different and unusual fats, sugars, proteins and bioactive compounds that may have commercial applications, such as the fatty acids that are the principal ingredients in our oils, and highly sensitive fluorescent diagnostic products; • microalgae comprise a large, substantially unexplored group of organisms, and thus, provide a virtually untapped genetic resource that can be screened for a variety of new products, including pharmaceuticals; and • many microalgae can be successfully cultivated using conventional large-scale fermentation techniques and equipment, enabling economical production of commercial quantities of these valuable products. Our scientists have discovered microalgal strains that selectively produce DHA in large amounts and are amenable to large-scale, heterotrophic culture using common commercial fermentation equipment used in the pharmaceutical, food and beverage and biotechnology industries under Good Manufacturing Practices (“GMP”) conditions. These microalgal strains and the conditions applied to achieve economical production of DHA form an important basis of our intellectual property. Our scientists also have developed and patented novel microalgal culturing systems that allow for the commercial production of other high-value compounds, such as fluorescent pigments, and for the rapid evaluation and scale-up of other microalgae of potential interest. Proprietary closed-system, illuminated photobioreactors and numerous techniques for maintaining microalgal monocultures form the basis of this technology. Our product development process involves the following primary steps: Identification of Appropriate Microalgae. We select specific microalgae to produce potentially marketable compounds through a comprehensive process, which involves developing a search and screening strategy based upon our extensive knowledge of microalgal physiology and the unique role played by the target compound in the survival of selected microalgal species, searching scientific literature and our proprietary microalgal database, and performing biochemical analyses and product-yield experiments on candidate strains. We currently maintain an in-house collection of over 3,400 strains of microalgae, which includes representatives of virtually all of the significant taxonomic microalgal groups. Equally important is our proprietary microalgal database, which contains biochemical and physiological data on the strains in the collection. We believe that our microalgal collection and associated database are among the largest such resources available in the world. We also have access to potentially useful microalgal strains outside of our collection through agreements with several research organizations. Coupled with our extensive microalgal expertise, these resources are used to identify organisms for initial testing. Further testing ultimately results in the selection of production strains. Optimization of Microalgae and Growth Conditions. We apply standard industrial microbiological techniques to microalgae and manipulate culturing conditions (growth medium composition, temperature, pH and light intensity) to optimize product yield and productivity. After selecting strains with the best yields and growth characteristics, we enhance their production through conventional and commonly employed strain improvement methodologies. We have not used genetic engineering techniques to develop any of our existing products, but we may use these methods for certain products currently in development. Scale-up and Commercial Production. Successful exploitation of the unique characteristics of microalgae is in large measure dependent upon the availability of large-scale culturing technology. We have successfully scaled-up several microalgae capable of producing large amounts of DHA heterotrophically using common organic nutrients and salts. Heterotrophic culturing of these DHA-producing microalgae at commercially viable levels enables significantly lower production costs to be achieved, which were not possible prior to our achievements. Aspects of our technology for the heterotrophic growth of DHA-producing microalgae are the subject of several U.S. patents. Similar patents have been issued in certain other countries and are pending in certain other countries around the world. For other product applications, we use our proprietary light-driven, closed-culture system photobioreactors for microalgal production. Photobioreactors are closed to the atmosphere and designed to make the most efficient use of light while keeping contaminating microbes out of the culture. Using our photobioreactors, we are able to culture isolated microalgal strains without contamination and to manipulate such strains to influence growth and biochemical makeup, thus efficiently generating products of interest, including the culturing of various algae for the production 7 of powerful fluorescent dyes used in our advanced detection systems. We use a series of photobioreactors of varying sizes, controls and methods of operation to achieve culturing consistency. Certain aspects of these photobioreactors are the subject of U.S. patents. COLLABORATIVE AND LICENSING AGREEMENTS We have entered into license agreements with 21 infant formula manufacturers, who collectively represent approximately 70% of the worldwide wholesale market for infant formula. Our licensees include infant formula market leaders Mead Johnson Nutritionals, Nestle, Abbott Laboratories, Wyeth and Royal Numico, each of whom is selling infant formula fortified with our nutritional oils. Under all of these agreements, we received up-front license fees and will receive either a) a flat rate price per kilogram upon the sale of our oils to our licensees, or b) a transfer price on sales of our oils to our licensees plus ongoing royalties based on our licensees’ sales of infant formula products containing our oils. The most significant license agreements have remaining terms ranging from approximately 15 to 25 years, contain no future funding commitments on our part or that of our licensees, and may be terminated by our licensees upon proper notification pursuant to the terms of each contract. Licensees have the right to buy other sources of DHA and ARA oils provided they still make royalty payments to us upon the sale of the final infant formula product containing the oils that are covered by our patents. Under the terms of these licensing agreements, our licensees are responsible for obtaining FDA and all other necessary regulatory approvals with respect to these nutritional oils. Under each of our current license agreements, our licensees generally are obligated to indemnify us against product liability claims relating to our nutritional oils unless our nutritional oils do not meet agreed-upon specifications. Under the terms of several of our license agreements, we are prohibited from granting a license to any party for the inclusion of our nutritional oils in infant formula with payment terms or royalty rates that are more favorable to such licensee than those provided in our agreements with our current licensees without either the prior written consent of the current licensees or prospectively offering such new favorable terms to these licensees. This restriction does not apply to any lump sum payments to us pursuant to a territorially restricted license under which the reduced payment is reasonably related to the reduced marketing opportunities available under such a restricted license. In April 2004, we provided an exclusive license to Advance Bionutrition (“ABN”), a start-up company founded by a former officer of Martek, to sell certain ARA byproducts as aquaculture feed. This license and supply agreement has a term of three years and requires ABN to purchase all such ARA byproducts produced by us, up to a certain maximum. In addition, in August 2004, we granted ABN an exclusive license in the aquaculture field and non-exclusive license in the animal nutrition field for the sale of DHA. This agreement also has a term of three years and provides for certain minimum inventory purchases from Martek. We recognized revenues of approximately $800,000, $600,000 and $800,000 in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, from sales of products to ABN. In November 2001, we sold the assets consisting primarily of inventory and technology surrounding our former stable isotope product line to Spectra Gases, Inc., a privately held New Jersey company. As part of the agreement, we received approximately $800,000 for the assets of the group. We also retained an ongoing royalty from future reagent sales for five years up to a maximum of $500,000 and also received a 9% equity position and royalty interest in a new company that was formed to pursue the nuclear magnetic resonance protein structures in cell membranes. As of October 31, 2005, the value of the investment in the new company was fully reserved. We recognized approximately $100,000 in royalty revenue during each of fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003 in connection with this arrangement. In April 2004, we entered into a new 15-year agreement with DSM Food Specialties B.V. (“DSM”) under which they continue to be our contract supplier for nutritional oils containing ARA. Under the agreement, DSM will provide us with 100% of our ARA needs on a cost plus margin basis except as noted below. The agreement also provides for the grant to us by DSM of a license related to certain technologies associated with the manufacture of ARA and provides us with the ability to produce and sell ARA, to the extent allowed by the overall supply agreement. This grant involved a license fee totaling $10 million. Through this license and the overall supply arrangement, we have the ability to produce, either directly or through a third party, an unlimited amount of ARA. The sale of such self-produced ARA is limited annually, however, to the greater of (i) 100 tons of ARA oil or (ii) any amounts ordered by us that DSM is unable to fulfill. During fiscal 2005, we demonstrated the ability to produce limited amounts of ARA in our plants. The agreement with DSM also provides for the granting to DSM by us of an exclusive license under certain of our patents and intellectual property rights for the production by DSM of products containing ARA that are not for human consumption, including animal feed products. In addition, we and DSM have agreed to contribute our complementary resources to cooperative marketing and joint research and development efforts to expand the applications and fields of use for ARA, with both parties sharing any economic benefits of such efforts. In December 2003, we executed a collaboration agreement with a Canadian biotechnology company to co-develop DHA products from plants. In addition to reimbursement of expenses incurred by the co-collaborator, we are contingently liable for milestone payments upon achievement of certain scientific results. As of October 31, 2005, a milestone payment of up to $2.5 million would be paid to the Company’s co-collaborator in fiscal 2006 if the milestone related to the current phase of the project is achieved. We have also entered into various additional collaborative research and license agreements. Under these agreements, we are required to fund research or to collaborate on the development of potential products. As of October 31, 2005, we were not committed to fund any future development activities under these arrangements. Certain of these agreements also commit us to make payments upon the occurrence of certain milestones and pay royalties upon the sale of certain products resulting from such collaborations. PRODUCTION 8 We manufacture oils rich in DHA at our fermentation and oil processing facilities located in Winchester, Kentucky, and Kingstree, South Carolina. We acquired the Winchester facility in 1995 and the Kingstree facility in 2003 through the acquisition of FermPro Manufacturing, LP. Both facilities have been significantly expanded since their acquisition, with the most recent being an expansion of the Kingstree plant that was completed in fiscal 2005, on which we have spent approximately $188 million since the inception of the project in fiscal 2003. The oils that we produce in these facilities are certified kosher by the Orthodox Union and are certified Halal by the Islamic Food and Nutrition Council of America. In addition, both manufacturing facilities have received a favorable rating of “excellent” or “superior” in audits by the American Institute of Baking (“AIB”). Our ARA oils are purchased from DSM as manufactured at its Capua, Italy and Belvidere, New Jersey plants. DSM recently completed its expansion of its ARA production capabilities at its Belvidere facility, which has been increasing its quarterly output. This has allowed us to build our ARA inventory and we are continuing to build this ARA inventory in the short-term, until the Belvidere facility exhibits more consistent production performance. We are now receiving approximately one-half of our ARA from DSM’s Belvidere facility. Because DSM is a third-party manufacturer, we do not have full control over the timing and level of its Capua and Belvidere production volumes. Annual ARA pricing utilizes a cost-plus arrangement and is based on the prior year’s actual costs incurred adjusted for current year expectations. Calendar 2005 ARA purchases have been valued by us based on pricing established through this methodology and invoiced from DSM. As part of our April 2004 agreement with DSM, we are required to guarantee the recovery to DSM of certain expansion costs incurred by them. Our guarantee to DSM which relates to their phase one expansion and was initially valued at $8 million has been eliminated through ARA purchases in the normal course of business. In addition, we are in the process of finalizing an amendment to the April 2004 agreement with DSM. This amendment, among other things, will establish our guarantee of DSM’s phase two expansion costs. This guarantee will have a maximum value of $40 million, with such amount being reduced annually through December 31, 2008 based upon ARA purchases in excess of a specified minimum threshold. As of December 31, 2005, this phase two proposed guarantee has been reduced to approximately $32 million, with this reduction occurring primarily in the second half of 2005 upon completion of DSM’s phase two expansion. We have attempted to reduce the risk inherent in having a single supplier, such as DSM, through certain elements of the supply agreement entered into with DSM in April 2004. In connection with this agreement, we have licensed the DSM technology associated with ARA production. Through this license and the overall supply arrangement, we have the ability to produce, either directly or through a third party, an unlimited amount of ARA. The sale of such self-produced ARA is limited annually, however, to the greater of (i) 100 tons of ARA oil or (ii) any amounts ordered by us that DSM is unable to fulfill. During fiscal 2005, we demonstrated the ability to produce limited amounts of ARA in our plants. To further improve our overall ARA supply chain, we have directly engaged a U.S.-based provider of certain post-fermentation ARA manufacturing services and have added additional ARA downstream processing capacity at Kingstree. Along with our pending ARA extraction capabilities at Kingstree, the addition of the third-party facility provides us with multiple U.S. sites for the full downstream processing of ARA. When combining our current DHA production capabilities in Winchester and Kingstree with DSM’s current ARA production capabilities in Italy and the U.S., we have production capacity for DHA and ARA products in excess of $500 million in annualized sales to the infant formula, dietary supplement and food and beverage markets. As such, our production capabilities exceed current demand; however, we have the ability to manage production levels and, to a certain extent, control our manufacturing costs. Nonetheless, when experiencing excess capacity, we may be unable to produce the required quantities of oil cost-effectively. We also have several other contractual agreements with third-party manufacturers to assist in the production of our nutritional oils. Among them, we have an agreement for the production of DHA-S biomass that we sell to animal feed companies or process further for use in the adult supplement and food and beverage markets. We currently have a minimum purchase commitment under this agreement that expires on June 30, 2006. As of October 31, 2005, our remaining obligation was approximately $1.8 million. We do not anticipate extending this third-party arrangement due to the recent refinement and scale-up of our internal production capabilities for DHA-S at both our Winchester, Kentucky and Kingstree, South Carolina facilities. The commercial success of our nutritional oils will depend, in part, on our ability to manufacture these oils or have them manufactured at large scale on a continuous basis and at a commercially acceptable cost. Our success will also be somewhat dependent on our ability to align our production with customer demand. If market demand subsides due to our inability to meet demand for our products, our results could be negatively impacted. There can also be no assurance that we will be able to successfully optimize production of our nutritional oils, or continue to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, including GMP requirements. Under the terms of several of our infant formula licenses, our licensees may elect to manufacture these oils themselves. We are currently unaware of any of our licensees producing our oils or preparing to produce our oils, and estimate that it would take a licensee a minimum of one year to implement a process for making our oils. SOURCES OF SUPPLY Our raw material suppliers for production of DHA oil include major chemical companies and food and beverage ingredient suppliers. We have identified and validated multiple sources for each of our major ingredients and do not anticipate that the lack of availability of raw materials will cause future production shortages. From fiscal 2003 through early fiscal 2005, the demand for our nutritional oils by our customers for use in infant formula products exceeded production output and capacity and, as such, we limited the orders we accepted for our nutritional oils. Some of our customers responded to the shortages and inconsistent supply by building inventory, and we have had difficulty in predicting with certainty what our customers’ future ordering would be in light of limited visibility into our customers’ supply chains and expansion plans. To improve visibility into our customers’ planned orders and to better understand the base level of orders required to meet current demand, we have worked closely with our customers to obtain new order projections. To address our production output and capacity issues, we and DSM have added production capacity. As a result, we are no longer 9 limiting the orders we accept for nutritional oils, and, furthermore, we have been able to accumulate and expect to maintain DHA and ARA finished goods inventory at levels which no longer constrain revenue growth. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The primary focus of our research and development activities has been the development and optimization of manufacturing processes for our nutritional oils and the development of more economical and stable DHA products for the food and beverage market. We perform research and development at three facilities: Columbia, Maryland, Winchester, Kentucky and Boulder, Colorado. Our research and development expenditures in fiscal 2005 were mainly associated with development activity at the Columbia, Maryland lab directed toward improving the quality, sensory properties and stability of our nutritional oils, optimizing production characteristics of microalgal strains, investigating the clinical health benefits of DHA and ARA fatty acids, and exploring the biochemical pathways utilized by microalgae to produce DHA. Additional research and development expenses incurred at our Winchester, Kentucky laboratory and manufacturing facility were directed towards increasing our production yields, reducing waste and continuing to improve the quality of our oils. Research conducted at our lab in Boulder, Colorado is focused on developing feasible approaches to the expression of nutritional fatty acids, especially DHA, in plant oilseeds in connection with a Canadian-based collaborator, investigating the feasibility of utilizing our proprietary genes to produce other bioactive compounds with application in the healthcare fields and developing new ingredient forms and applications technology for DHA-enriched food and beverage products. We incurred total research and development expense of approximately $20.5 million, $18.6 million and $13.2 million in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. SALES AND MARKETING Our nutritional oils are marketed and sold primarily to the infant formula, dietary supplement and food and beverage industries. Infant formula manufacturers are required to purchase a license from us in order to use our DHA and ARA oils in infant formula. To date, we have entered into license agreements with 21 infant formula manufacturers who represent approximately 70% of the world’s wholesale infant formula market. Our licensees include infant formula market leaders Mead Johnson Nutritionals, Nestle, Abbott Laboratories, Wyeth and Royal Numico, each of whom is selling infant formula fortified with our nutritional oils. Due to the success of the fortified infant formula products, several of our licensees have also begun selling extension products beyond infant formula, which contain our oils and are targeted to children ages nine months to two years of age. In addition, Mead Johnson Nutritionals has begun selling a product in the United States, Expecta™LIPIL®, which contains our DHA oil and targets pregnant and nursing women. First Horizon Pharmaceutical® has recently launched a prescription prenatal supplement OptiNate™ containing Martek DHA™, Mission Pharmacal will soon launch a prescription prenatal supplement CITRICAL® Prenatal + DHA containing Martek DHA™ and Vincent Foods, LLC has begun offering Oh Mama! nutrition bars containing Martek DHA™ , all of which also target pregnant and nursing women. Neuromins® DHA, our line of dietary supplements, is distributed and sold through many leading supplement manufacturers and is available, primarily through private label, in nutritional and health products stores nationwide. We also sell our supplement line directly to consumers and healthcare professionals. We are currently marketing food and beverage and animal feed applications to both U.S. and international companies. Several egg producers, including Gold Circle Farms®, are producing eggs and liquid eggs using our DHA. These eggs are sold in several grocery store chains in the U.S. and Europe. Priégola has launched Simbi + Omega-3 yogurt with Martek DHA™, which is now available in major supermarket chains throughout Spain and is being marketed to children and adults for its brain health benefits. We are continuing to explore additional markets for our DHA and DHA-S oils including use in pharmaceuticals and other foods and beverages. We are in discussions with several companies in the nutritional and food and beverage markets to sell products containing our DHA and DHA-S oils for cognitive function, cardiovascular health and other applications and have signed a license and supply agreement with a major consumer food products company. We, along with our customers, are developing other DHA delivery methods, including powders and emulsions, to address these potential new markets. Consumer marketing efforts are performed primarily by our customers although we play a supportive role. Our infant formula licensees market their DHA and ARA supplemented formulas directly to the consumer and healthcare professionals. Our dietary supplement and food and beverage customers also create and implement their own advertising campaigns. We support these efforts through trade show participation and targeted direct mail campaigns as well as limited advertising and public relations campaigns. Our line of fluorescent detection products is designed for use in a wide range of drug discovery and research applications. These products are marketed to large pharmaceutical research institutions through distributors, such as PerkinElmer Life Sciences Products, Beckman Coulter and EMD Biosciences, who have entered into distribution agreements with us. Our distributors perform most of the marketing surrounding this product line. Recently, we have developed additional product extensions on currently distributed products. We also sell directly to the consumer through our website. 10 COMPETITION The healthcare and biological sciences industries are characterized by rapidly evolving technology and intense competition. Our competitors include major pharmaceutical, chemical, specialized biotechnology and food and beverage companies, many of whom have financial, technical and marketing resources significantly greater than ours. In addition, many specialized biotechnology companies have formed collaborations with large, established companies to support research, development and commercialization of products and technologies that may be competitive with our products and technologies. Academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are also conducting research and development activities that may be competitive with our products. These organizations are seeking patent protection and may commercialize products and technologies on their own or through joint ventures that are competitive with our products and technologies. The existence of products and technologies of which we are not aware, or those that may be developed in the future, may adversely affect the marketability of the products and technologies that we have developed. Fish oil-based products currently dominate the adult DHA supplement market and certain foods containing fish oils are on the market in various parts of the world. DHA-containing fish oil for infant formula applications provides an alternative to our DHA nutritional oil and is used by certain of our licensees and other infant formula manufacturers outside the United States. Fish oil is generally less costly than our DHA oil, and therefore presents a substantial competitive threat to our DHA product line. Although fish oil is generally a lower cost product relative to our DHA, it has odor, stability and taste characteristics that may limit its usefulness in food and beverage products. Several large companies, including BASF AG, DSM and Ocean Nutrition, and a number of smaller companies, manufacture microencapsulated fish oil products. Although microencapsulation of the oil resolves many of the odor, stability and taste issues found with fish oil, a microencapsulated product currently is significantly more costly than regular fish oil. Because fish oil is generally less costly than our DHA oil and continues to improve in quality and gain general market acceptance, fish oil presents a substantial competitive threat. In November 2005, we announced the availability of a new and improved Martek DHA™ for use in food and beverage applications. The new and improved Martek DHA™ has enhanced food and beverage formulation capabilities, including better stability and easier formulation in some applications. We have also developed a more efficient manufacturing process that produces high levels of DHA at a significantly lower cost, making the DHA now cost competitive with certain forms of fish oil, on a price per DHA unit basis, and thereby potentially opening new markets to us. Published reports have cited a number of fish oils as containing chemical toxins not present in our oils. In addition, we believe the combination of either fish oil or microencapsulated fish oil with a microbial source of ARA for use in infant formula would likely infringe upon our patent position in several countries. The Ross Products Division of Abbott Laboratories, a significant Martek licensee and customer, submitted a GRAS notification on January 2, 2002 seeking FDA concurrence that its fish oil source of DHA and its fungal source of ARA are GRAS when used as ingredients in infant formula. At this time, the notification continues to be under consideration by the FDA. Reliant Pharmaceuticals launched Omacor, a DHA/ EPA ethyl ester, in the second half of 2005 for treatment of hyperlipidemia. Omacor is a lipid-regulating agent which includes both EPA and DHA from fish oil. We expect additional studies to expand the approved indications for Omacor. Other pharmaceutical applications using omega-3 fatty acids may be expected. We believe that our nutritional oils have the following advantages over fish oil and other currently available sources of DHA and ARA for use in infant formula, as food and beverage ingredients, or as dietary supplements: • our oils do not have the odor, stability, taste characteristics, or impurities that may limit the usefulness of DHA derived from unencapsulated fish oil; • our oils can be blended in a variety of mixtures in precise ratios for specific applications, whereas the composition of fish oils may vary; • each of our oils used in infant formula is comprised of a fatty acid blend that does not contain certain other fatty acids in significant quantities such as eicosapentaenoic acid (“EPA”), which may not be appropriate for consumption by infants. • our oils do not contain substances found in certain fish oils such as methylmercury, polychlorinated biphenyls (“PCBs”), dioxins and other toxic contaminants; • our oils have a higher oxidative stability and longer shelf life than fish oil and are, therefore, more amenable to the spray drying process required for powdered formula; • our oils are not produced from animal sources and, therefore, may be more desirable for use in food and beverage products requiring vegetable-sourced DHA; • our oils are produced from renewable, sustainable natural resources, unlike fish oil; • our DHA and ARA-enriched oils are in an easily digestible triglyceride form similar to that found in breast milk, but different from the phospholipid form found in egg yolk lipids; and • our oils can be produced in large quantities under controlled conditions satisfying strict regulatory scrutiny. 11 At this time, our oils are the only DHA and ARA oils cleared by the FDA for inclusion in infant formula in the U.S. Suntory Limited, Cargill Inc., through a joint venture with a company in China, and other independent Chinese manufacturers are producing and distributing a fungal source of ARA. In addition, we are aware that there may be several manufacturers in China attempting to produce an algal source of DHA. At this time, we are uncertain of the overall status and commercial potential of these development efforts or if these companies will present a competitive threat in the future. Small amounts of DHA and ARA can be derived from egg yolk lipids, but DHA and ARA of this type are not in the same molecular form as that predominantly found in breast milk (i.e., phospholipid vs. triglyceride). DHA and ARA derived from egg yolks are currently being added to some brands of infant formula marketed by Royal Numico and several smaller companies. We believe that the processes to produce DHA and ARA from egg lipids are more costly than the processes that we use for producing DHA and ARA from microbial sources. Furthermore, the addition of DHA and ARA from egg yolks at levels equivalent to those found in human breast milk may result in dietary levels of lecithin and cholesterol in excess of those found in human breast milk. Nutrinova Nutrition Specialties & Food Ingredients GmbH, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Celanese Corporation, has been actively marketing a DHA-rich microalgal oil to the food and beverage and dietary supplement markets in the United States, China and Europe. We have filed a patent infringement suit against Nutrinova in both the United States and Germany. These lawsuits are further described in Item 3 of Part I of this Form 10-K, “Legal Proceedings.” In December 2005, it was announced that Nutrinova’s DHA business has been sold to Lonza Group LTD, a Swiss chemical and biotechnology group. There may be other competitive sources of DHA and ARA of which we are not aware. The fact that many of the companies mentioned above are larger, more experienced and better capitalized than us raises the significant risk that these companies may be able to use their resources to develop less costly sources of DHA and ARA than our current technology permits. In the area of advanced detection, our major competitors consist of life science reagent suppliers such as Amersham Pharmacia, Molecular Probes, Prozyme and Cyanotech. Our diagnostic products compete primarily on the basis of product efficacy, safety, patient convenience, reliability, price and proprietary position. Our competitive position will also depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific and other personnel, develop effective proprietary products, implement production and marketing plans, obtain patent protection and secure adequate capital resources. PATENTS, LICENSES AND PROPRIETARY TECHNOLOGY We have received numerous patents protecting our nutritional products technology, including the fermentation methods of producing our DHA and ARA oils, as well as the blending of DHA and ARA oils for use in infant formula. In 1994, we received a U.S. patent covering certain blends of a microbial oil enriched with DHA and a microbial oil enriched with ARA, as well as the use of such blends in infant formulas. In 1995, we received a U.S. patent covering a process for making an edible oil containing DHA and the edible oil made by such process as well as a U.S. patent covering an infant formula comprising a specified edible oil containing DHA. In 1996, we received two additional U.S. patents covering our nutritional oils technology. The first patent protects pharmaceutical compositions and dietary supplements comprising a single cell oil in concentrations of at least 20% DHA in a triglyceride form made using our method of producing DHA oil. The second patent clarifies that our patent coverage includes the blending, in infant formula and dietary supplements, of microbially derived ARA oil with low EPA fish oils. Fish oil is a potential competitive source of DHA to Martek’s algal-derived DHA oil. This patent makes it more difficult for low EPA fish oils to be combined with microbial sources of ARA oils in the U.S. without violating our patents. A U.S. patent was granted in 1997, which protects the production, use and sale of oils rich in ARA (30% or greater concentration). In 1998, a U.S. patent was issued protecting our DHA-rich algal biomass. DHA-rich algal biomass is the raw product of the DHA fermentation process and represents an inexpensive source of DHA that may potentially be a low cost product itself. We also have been awarded a number of foreign patents covering various aspects of our nutritional oils, including European patents covering our DHA and ARA-rich oils, as well as the blending of these oils for use in infant formula. We also own patents and applications that cover algae fermentation processes, lipid extraction/purification, genomic-based approaches to lipid production, arachidonic acid production and use, animal feeding protocols, and food and beverage applications for PUFAs, as a result of the OmegaTech purchase in 2002. From 1992 to 2005, seven U.S. patents were issued covering the use of algae in the production of omega-3 PUFAs (e.g. DHA), and the use of such PUFAs in such products as human foods and beverages, animal feed, aquaculture and the resulting fortified meat, seafood, milk and eggs. Additional patent applications directed to this technology are still pending. From 1994 to 2003, eight U.S. patents were issued covering the fermentation of microorganisms in low chloride fermentation medium. Small microorganisms, the use of such microorganisms in aquaculture, and the resulting products are also claimed. Additional patent applications covering this technology are still pending. From 1996 to 2004, six U.S. patents were issued covering the use and production of ARA using a variety of fungi. Additional patent applications covering this technology are still pending. Other U.S. patents have been issued and a number of patents are pending worldwide. We are the exclusive licensee of two U.S. patents and numerous foreign patents and applications covering production, sale and use of our SensiLight™ dyes. We have U.S. and foreign patents and applications and are the exclusive licensee of U.S. and foreign patents and applications covering the fractionation of lipids. 12 Our success is dependent in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. Our policy is to aggressively protect our proprietary technology through patents, where appropriate, and in other cases, through trade secrets. Additionally, in certain cases, we rely on the licenses of patents and technology of third parties. We hold approximately 66 U.S. patents, covering various aspects of our technology, which will expire on various dates between 2006 and 2021. Our core infant formula-related patents expire between 2011 and 2015. We have filed, and intend to file, applications for additional patents covering both our products and processes as appropriate. Currently, we have approximately 603 issued patents and pending applications worldwide. There can be no assurance that: • any patent applications filed by, assigned to or licensed to us will be granted; • we will develop additional products that are patentable; • any patents issued to or licensed by us will provide us with any competitive advantages or adequate protection for inventions; • any patents issued to or licensed by us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others; or • issued patents, or patents that may be issued, will provide protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable. Furthermore, patent law relating to the scope of claims in the fields of healthcare and biosciences is still evolving, and our patent rights are subject to this uncertainty. Our patent rights on our products therefore might conflict with the patent rights of others, whether existing now or in the future. Alternatively, the products of others could infringe our patent rights. The defense and prosecution of patent claims are both costly and time consuming, even if the outcome is ultimately in our favor. An adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease selling the affected products. It is our corporate policy to vigorously protect our substantial investment in the research and development of our products and to continue to enforce our patent and other intellectual property rights against third parties who engage in the unauthorized manufacture, sale, or use of our technology. We currently have several challenges to our European patents covering our DHA oils, ARA oils and DHA and ARA blended oils and these challenges as well as our lawsuit against others for infringement of our patents are described in Item 3 of Part I of this Form 10-K, “Legal Proceedings.” Patent litigation costs were approximately $3.6 million in fiscal 2005. We expect that, in the future, as our nutritional oils continue to be commercialized, opposition to our intellectual property by our competitors will continue and most likely increase. We believe that additional challenges to our suite of U.S. patents may arise in the future. We will likely incur substantial costs in the future protecting and defending our patent and other intellectual property rights. If we fail to maintain patent protection for our nutritional oils, it would have a material adverse effect on our ability to gain a competitive advantage for these oils and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly future sales of our nutritional oils and future license fees related to sales of infant formula containing these oils. In particular, if we fail to maintain patent protection, it would permit our competitors to produce products that would be directly competitive with our nutritional oils using similar or identical processes, and it is possible that our current infant formula manufacturers under license or those which may be under license in the future may choose formula ingredients from these competitors if they choose to include the ingredients in their formulas at all. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how, which we seek to protect in part by confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any such breach or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. GOVERNMENT REGULATION AND PRODUCT TESTING Our products and our manufacturing and research activities are subject to varying degrees of regulation by a number of state and federal regulatory authorities in the United States, including the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (the “FDC Act”). The products developed by us are subject to potential regulation by the FDA as food and beverage ingredients, dietary supplements, drugs and/or medical devices. The regulatory status of any product is largely determined by its intended use. Drugs and medical devices generally may not be marketed without first obtaining FDA authorization to do so. New infant formulas also are subject to premarket notification requirements. Although there are no premarket authorization requirements for whole foods per se, there are premarket approval requirements for food and beverage additives. Specifically exempt from the food additive definition and, therefore, the premarket approval requirements, are generally recognized as safe food and beverage ingredients. Dietary supplements for the most part are not subject to premarket authorization requirements, although there is a premarket notification requirement for certain new dietary ingredients that were not marketed as dietary supplements prior to October 1994. The FDA has established detailed GMP, labeling and other requirements for drugs, medical devices, infant formulas, foods and beverages and dietary supplements. The requirements for drugs, medical devices and infant formulas generally are much more stringent than the requirements for foods and beverages and dietary supplements. Our infant formula licensees are responsible for obtaining the requisite regulatory clearances to market their products containing our oils. Sales of our products outside the United States are subject to foreign regulatory requirements that may vary widely from country to country. 13 In May 2001, the FDA completed a favorable review of our generally recognized as safe (“GRAS”) notification for the use of our DHASCO® and ARASCO® oil blend in specified ratios in infant formulas. Since the first product introduction in February 2002, supplemented infant formulas manufactured by four of our licensees have been sold in the United States: Mead Johnson Nutritionals under the Enfamil®LIPIL® brand; the Ross Products Division of Abbott Laboratories under its Similac® ADVANCE® brand; Nestle under its Good Start® Supreme DHA & ARA and NAN® DHA & ARA brands; and PBM Products Inc. under the brand Bright Beginnings™ and under private label brands, including Wal-Mart Parent’s Choice™. These supplemented infant formulas include term, pre-term, soy-based, specialty and toddler products. The FDA regulates the use and marketing of dietary supplements under the provisions of the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994 (“DSHEA”). We are currently selling several lines of DHA dietary supplements. In addition, we are researching and developing new applications for our DHA and ARA oils. We believe that our DHA and ARA are not new dietary ingredients and, as such, are not subject to premarket notification requirements when marketed for use as dietary supplements. There can be no assurance that the FDA would agree that a premarket notification is not required or that we will be able to comply with the requirements of DSHEA or any regulations that the FDA may promulgate thereunder. In June 2002, the Australia New Zealand Food Authority authorized the use of DHA-S oil for use as a Novel Food ingredient in Australia and New Zealand. In June 2003, the European Commission authorized the use of our DHA-S oil as a Novel Food ingredient in the European Community. This Novel Food designation authorizes the use of our DHA-S as an ingredient in certain foods such as certain dairy products, including cheese and yogurt (but not milk-based drinks), spreads and dressings, breakfast cereals, food supplements and dietary foods for special medical purposes in the European Community. In February 2004, the FDA completed a favorable review of our GRAS notification for the use of DHA-S in food and beverage applications. Our fluorescent detection and other products derived from microalgae are subject to potential regulation by FDA as either medical devices or as a combination medical device/drug product to the extent that they are used in the diagnosis, mitigation, treatment, cure or prevention of diseases. Such classification would subject the products to premarket clearances and/or regulatory approvals. There can be no assurances that we or our licensees or collaborators would be able to develop the extensive safety and efficacy data needed to support such FDA premarket authorizations or that the FDA ultimately would authorize the marketing of such products on a timely basis, if at all. For potential pharmaceutical uses of products derived from microalgae, there can be no assurance that required clinical testing will be completed successfully within any specified time period, if at all, with respect to our products. Additionally, there is no assurance that we or our licensees or collaborators will be able to develop the extensive data needed to establish the safety and efficacy of these products for approval for drug uses, or that such drug products will not be subject to regulation as biological products or as controlled substances, which would affect marketing and other requirements. Some of our products are in research or development phases. We cannot predict all of the regulatory requirements or issues that may apply to or arise in connection with our products. Changes in existing laws, regulations or policies and the adoption of new laws, regulations or policies could prevent us or our licensees or collaborators from complying with such requirements. Due to the cost and time commitment associated with the FDA regulatory process, we will decide on a product-by-product basis whether to handle relevant clearance and other requirements independently or to assign such responsibilities to our licensees or future collaborative partners. There can be no assurance that we or our licensees or collaborators will be able to obtain such regulatory clearances, if required, on a timely basis or at all. Delays in receipt of, or failure to receive, such clearances, the loss of previously received approvals or clearances, or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In connection with the manufacture of certain of our products, we are required to adhere to applicable current GMP regulations as required by the FDA. GMP regulations specify component and product testing standards, quality control and quality assurance requirements, and records and other documentation controls. The GMP requirements for foods and beverages, infant formulas, drugs and medical devices vary widely. As the manufacturer of DHA and ARA that are marketed as dietary supplements and used as food and beverage ingredients in infant formulas sold in the United States, we are subject to GMP and various other requirements applicable to food and beverage ingredients and dietary supplements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to manufacture our nutritional oils in accordance with relevant food and beverage ingredient and dietary supplement requirements for commercial use. Ongoing compliance with GMP and other applicable regulatory requirements is monitored through periodic inspections by state and federal agencies, including the FDA and comparable agencies in other countries. A determination that we are in violation of such GMP and other regulations could lead to the imposition of civil penalties, including fines, product recalls or product seizures, and, in the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions. As large scale manufacturing facilities, our plants in Winchester, Kentucky and Kingstree, South Carolina are required to abide by applicable federal and state environmental and safety laws, including regulations established by the Environmental Protection Agency (“U.S. EPA”) and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”). In addition to the normal standards for heavy industrial manufacturing facilities, our solvent extraction process includes the use of hexane, which is extremely flammable and subject to emission requirements. Ongoing compliance with environmental and safety laws is monitored by periodic inspections by the U.S. EPA and OSHA. If we fail to abide by these laws we could receive fines, or if the violations were serious enough, our operations could be shut down until the problems are fixed. Such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture our nutritional oils, and our financial results could be negatively impacted. While the costs of our compliance with environmental laws and regulations cannot be predicted with certainty, such costs are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our earnings or competitive position. Current estimates indicate that total company-wide capital expenditures for environmental compliance are not expected to be material in fiscal 2006. See Item 3 of Part I of this Form 10-K, “Legal Proceedings,” for further discussion. The Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) regulates certain aspects of the advertising and marketing of our products. Under the Federal Trade Commission Act, a company must be able to substantiate both the express and implied claims that are conveyed by an advertisement. It is not 14 uncommon for the FTC to conduct an investigation of the claims that are made about products in new and emerging areas of science that involve a potentially vulnerable population such as infants. EMPLOYEES As of October 31, 2005, we had 582 full-time employees, two of whom are M.D.s and 34 of whom have Ph.D.s. Approximately 116 employees are engaged in research and development and contract related research and development activities, 355 are engaged in production or production development related activities and 111 are in administrative, business development and sales and marketing positions. We consider relations with our employees to be good. None of our employees is covered by a collective bargaining agreement. 15 DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Our directors and executive officers are as follows: Name Age Position James R. Beery(2)(3) 64 Director Robert J. Flanagan (1)(3) 49 Director Jerome C. Keller 63 Director Henry Linsert, Jr. 64 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director Gordon S. Macklin 77 Director Douglas J. MacMaster, Jr.(1)(3) 75 Director John H. Mahar(1) 71 Director Sandra Panem, Ph.D.(2) 59 Director Richard J. Radmer, Ph.D. 63 Director Eugene H. Rotberg(2)(3) 75 Director David M. Abramson 52 Senior Vice President, Corporate Development George P. Barker 66 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Peter L. Buzy 46 Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Steve Dubin 52 President Barney B. Easterling 60 Senior Vice President, Manufacturing James H. Flatt, Ph.D. 46 Senior Vice President, Research Peter A. Nitze 47 Chief Operating Officer (1) Member of Compensation Committee (2) Member of Audit Committee (3) Member of Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Directors: Mr. Beery served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel for SmithKline Beecham and subsequently GlaxoSmithKline from 1993 until his retirement in 2001. Prior to that, Mr. Beery practiced law with international law firms in New York, Tokyo and London, including serving as Managing Partner of the London office of Morrison & Foerster, specializing in strategic transactions and general corporate matters for a variety of industries. Following his retirement from GlaxoSmithKline, Mr. Beery is Senior Of Counsel to the London office of Covington & Burling. Mr. Beery also serves as a director for deCODE genetics, Inc. and Orchid Cellmark, Inc. Mr. Beery has been a director of Martek since March 2004. His term expires in 2006. Mr. Flanagan is Executive Vice President of Clark Enterprises, Inc. (“Clark”), one of the largest privately-held construction companies in the United States, a position he has held since 1989. Prior to joining Clark, Mr. Flanagan was the Treasurer, Secretary and member of the Board of Directors of the Baltimore Orioles, Inc. and was also employed as a member of Arthur Andersen’s audit division in the Washington, D. C. office. Certified as a public accountant in Washington, D.C., Mr. Flanagan has been a director of Martek since April 2002. His term expires in 2006. Mr. Keller retired from his position as Martek’s Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing in 2005, a position he held since 1997. Prior to joining Martek, Mr. Keller had been consulting after spending a 25-year career at Merck, most recently as Vice President of Sales from 1986 to 1993. In this position, he was responsible for all U.S. sales operations, including the direction of a support staff of 4,500 personnel and a sales volume of $4.2 billion. Mr. Keller also serves as a director of WebMD Health Corp. Mr. Keller has been a director of Martek since October 2005. His term expires in 2008. Mr. Linsert joined Martek as Chairman of the Board in 1988 and became Chief Executive Officer in 1989. From 1987 to 1988, he was primarily engaged as President of American Technology Investments Corp., a consulting company specializing in the development and financing of early stage companies in the Mid-Atlantic area. He was President and Chief Executive Officer of Suburban Capital Corporation, a venture capital subsidiary of Sovran Financial Corporation (now Bank of America), from 1983 to 1987. Prior to 1983, Mr. Linsert was Vice President of Inverness Capital Corporation, a small business investment company, and Vice President of First Virginia Bank. He also served as a Captain in the U.S. Marine Corps and as an artillery officer in Vietnam. His term expires in 2006. Mr. Linsert will retire as Chief Executive Officer on June 30, 2006 and will continue as Chairman of Martek’s Board of Directors. 16 Mr. Macklin serves as a director of MedImmune, Inc. (biotechnology) and Overstock.com (internet sales), and is a director, trustee, or managing general partner, as the case may be, of 48 of the investment companies in the Franklin Templeton Group of Funds. Mr. Macklin was formerly the Deputy Chairman of White Mountains Insurance Group, Inc. from 2001 to 2004, Chairman of White River Corporation (financial services) from 1993 to 1998, President of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (1970-1987) and Chairman of Hambrecht and Quist Group (1987-1992). From 1998-2002, Mr. Macklin was also a member of the Board of Directors of WorldCom, Inc. (now called MCI, Inc). Mr. Macklin has been a director of Martek since 1998. His term expires in 2006. Mr. MacMaster served in various management positions at Merck & Co., Inc. (“Merck”) from 1961 to 1988, at which time he was appointed Senior Vice President responsible for ten divisions, including Manufacturing and Technology, and Pharmaceutical Manufacturing. Mr. MacMaster retired from Merck in 1991 and currently serves as a director for Neose Technologies, Inc. (biotechnology) and Stratton Mutual Funds. Mr. MacMaster has been a director of Martek since 1993. His term expires in 2007. Mr. Mahar has served as President of Hillside Management, a consulting firm, since 1992. From 1991 to 1992, Mr. Mahar was a Vice President at Salomon Brothers Inc., serving as a principal for the Venture Capital Fund. From 1985 to 1991, Mr. Mahar was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Elf Technologies, Inc., a venture capital firm. Mr. Mahar was reelected as a director of Martek in February 1993. Prior to that time, he served as a director of Martek from 1988 until 1991. His term expires in 2007. Dr. Panem is a partner in Cross Atlantic Partners, an investment company specializing in biotechnology and healthcare. Prior to 1999, Dr. Panem was President of Vector Fund Management, L.P. (“VFM”), which focused on later-stage companies. Prior to joining VFM, she served as Vice President and Portfolio Manager for the Oppenheimer Global BioTech Fund, a mutual fund that invested in public and private biotechnology companies. Prior to joining Oppenheimer, Dr. Panem was a Vice President at Salomon Brothers Venture Capital, a fund focused on early and later-stage life sciences and technology investments. Dr. Panem has been a director of Martek since May 1995. Prior to that time, she served as a director from June 1990 until February 1993. Dr. Panem also serves as a director for Bioject, Inc. (healthcare equipment manufacturer). Her term expires in 2008. Dr. Radmer, a founder of Martek, has served since 1985 as a director. He served as our President and Chief Scientific Officer from our inception through March 2003. Prior to 1985, he worked for 17 years at Martin Marietta Corp. where he headed the Biosciences Department which performed research to develop new products from microalgae, among other activities. He has served as an Adjunct Associate Professor and Associate Member of the Graduate Faculty at the University of Maryland. His term expires in 2006. Mr. Rotberg has been an independent advisor to international development and financial institutions since 1990. From 1987 to 1990, Mr. Rotberg was Executive Vice President and a member of the Executive Committee at Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. From 1969 to 1987, Mr. Rotberg was Vice President and Treasurer of the World Bank. Mr. Rotberg has been a director of Martek since 1992. His term expires in 2007. Executive Officers (in addition to Mr. Linsert): Mr. Abramson joined Martek in 2003 as head of Corporate Development. Prior to joining Martek, he was the Executive Vice President and General Counsel for U.S. Foodservice from 1996 to 2003. In this position, Mr. Abramson oversaw the legal and regulatory affairs of U.S. Foodservice, a large foodservice distributor in the United States, and advised on business development opportunities for this company. U.S. Foodservice became a subsidiary of Royal Ahold in 2000. In addition, Mr. Abramson was also the Executive Vice President for Legal Affairs at Ahold, U.S.A. from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Abramson also served on the Board of Directors of U.S. Foodservice from 1994 to 2003. Prior to joining U.S. Foodservice, from 1983 until 1996, Mr. Abramson was a partner at Levan, Schimel, Belman & Abramson, P.A., now a part of Miles & Stockbridge. Mr. Abramson graduated from George Washington University in 1975, where he obtained a Bachelors of Business Administration in accounting. He received his Juris Doctor degree, with honors, from the University of Maryland School of Law in 1978. Mr. Abramson is a member of the Maryland Bar. Mr. Barker joined Martek in 2000 as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. Prior to joining Martek, Mr. Barker was Senior Vice President of Howard County General Hospital, Inc: A Member of Johns Hopkins Medicine and its affiliate Howard County Health Services, Inc. From 1982 to 1991, Mr. Barker was Senior Vice President for Development, General Counsel and Secretary of The Enterprise Development Company, a real estate development company located in Columbia, Maryland. Prior to 1982, Mr. Barker held positions as a partner of a Baltimore, Maryland, law firm and Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of The Rouse Company, a real estate development company also located in Columbia, Maryland. Mr. Barker has an A.B. degree from Princeton University and a LL.B. degree from Columbia University. Mr. Buzy joined Martek in 1998 as Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining Martek, Mr. Buzy spent 13 years with the accounting firm of Ernst & Young LLP, most recently as an audit partner in the Northern Virginia High Technology/Life Sciences Practice. Mr. Buzy is a Certified Public Accountant and a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. He received his B.S. in accounting from Salisbury University. Mr. Dubin joined Martek in 1992, where he served in various management positions, including CFO, Treasurer, Secretary, General Counsel and Senior Vice President of Business Development. In 2000, he moved to a part-time position of Senior Advisor — Business Development, a role he filled until his election to President of Martek in September 2003. He also spent time during 2000 through 2003 co-founding and co-managing a 17 Maryland-based, angel-investing club that funds early-stage, high-potential businesses. He was also “Of Counsel” to the law firm Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky and Popeo, P.C. during part of 2001 and 2002. Prior to 1992, Mr. Dubin worked in the financing and management of early-stage businesses and, over a period of 12 years, served in various positions at Suburban Bank, now part of Bank of America, including Vice President and Treasurer of their venture capital subsidiary, Suburban Capital Corporation. Mr. Dubin received a B.S in accounting from the University of Maryland and a Juris Doctor degree from the George Washington University. Mr. Dubin is a Certified Public Accountant and a member of the Maryland Bar. Mr. Dubin will become Chief Executive Officer of Martek upon Mr. Linsert’s retirement on June 30, 2006. Mr. Easterling joined Martek in 2003 in connection with Martek’s acquisition of FermPro Manufacturing, LP (“FermPro”). With the acquisition, he was named Vice President of Manufacturing of Martek, and in March 2004, he was elected to the position of Senior Vice President of Manufacturing. From 1994 to 2003, Mr. Easterling served as President and CEO of FermPro, a provider of contract fermentation services with a workforce of over 100 personnel. From 1980 to 1994, Mr. Easterling served in various management capacities for Gist-Brocades. He received a B.S. in premedicine from Clemson University. Dr. Flatt joined Martek in 2002 as Senior Vice President, Research and Development. Prior to joining Martek, Dr. Flatt was the Vice President of Research and Development for OmegaTech, Inc., a DHA producer in Boulder, Colorado that was acquired by Martek in April 2002. In his position with OmegaTech, Dr. Flatt managed all corporate research and development, including discovery, ingredient technology, food and analytical sciences and process development. Prior to joining OmegaTech in 2000, Dr. Flatt held a position at Procter & Gamble and was Vice President of Fermentation and Process Research for the Kelco division of Merck, where he led the development and commercialization of several major new products and processing technologies. Dr. Flatt is the author of six patents and numerous professional papers. He received his B.S. in chemical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, his M.S. in chemical engineering from the University of California — Berkeley, and his Ph.D. in chemical and biochemical engineering from the University of Wisconsin — Madison. Mr. Nitze joined Martek in 2005 as Chief Operating Officer. Prior to joining Martek, Mr. Nitze served as Vice President of Operations at DRS Technologies, with responsibility for the alignment and deployment of the company’s manufacturing and supply chain resources. Before joining DRS Technologies, Mr. Nitze served as the Chief Operating Officer of Regulatory DataCorp, a New York City firm that provides risk management services to financial services institutions, from July 2002 to April 2004. Prior to joining Regulatory DataCorp, Mr. Nitze was the business leader of the Optoelectronics venture at Honeywell International from February 2000 to November 2001, where he had previously served as the head of global operations for the Amorphous Metals division. Mr. Nitze began his career at General Electric Co. in finance and subsequently held a variety of positions in engineering, marketing, supply chain and operations management. Mr. Nitze has over 20 years of operations and general management experience with small, medium and large companies. He holds two M.S. degrees in engineering from Stanford University and a B.A. degree from Harvard. COMPANY Martek was incorporated in Delaware in 1985. Martek’s principal executive offices are located at 6480 Dobbin Road, Columbia, Maryland 21045. Our telephone number is (410) 740-0081 and our website address is http://www.martekbio.com. We make our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports available on our website free of charge as soon as practicable after we file with the SEC. Financial information prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, including information about revenues from customers, measures of profit and loss, total assets, financial information regarding geographic areas and export sales, can be found in our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 18 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risk factors set forth herein, as well as other information we include in this report and the additional information in the other reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC” or the “Commission”). If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. You should be cautioned that the following important factors have affected, and in the future could affect, our actual results. There may also be additional factors not discussed in this report that could also affect future results. These factors could cause our future financial results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us. Forward-looking statements may relate to such matters as: • our ability to generate future revenues; • the commercialization of our products; • the expansion and ongoing operation of facilities producing our products; • our ability to produce adequate amounts of our products ourselves or through third-party manufacturers; • the optimization of production costs; and • our ability to enter into future business collaborations and marketing partnerships. Forward-looking statements may include words such as “will,” “should,” “could,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “plan,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” and other similar expressions. This list does not constitute all factors which you should consider prior to making a decision to invest in our securities. You should also not assume that the information contained herein is complete or accurate in all respects after the date of this filing. We disclaim any duty to update the statements contained herein. A substantial portion of our nutritional oil products sales is made to four of our existing customers under agreements with no minimum purchase requirements. If demand by these customers for our nutritional oil products declines, our revenues may materially decline. We rely on a substantial portion of our product sales to four of our existing customers. Approximately 88% of our product sales revenue during the year ended October 31, 2005 was generated by sales of DHA and ARA to four customers, Mead Johnson Nutritionals, Abbott Laboratories, Nestle and Wyeth. We cannot guarantee that these customers will continue to demand our nutritional products at current or predictable levels. None of our license agreements requires our licensees to purchase any minimum amount of products from us now or in the future, and certain of our license agreements allow our licensees to manufacture our products themselves or purchase nutritional oils from other sources. We have limited visibility into our customers’ future actual level of demand, notwithstanding our view of consumer demand. If demand by any of our significant customers for our nutritional products declines, we may experience a material decline in our revenues. We are aware of several products that are currently available, and products under development, that may present a serious competitive threat to our products. Our success depends upon achieving and maintaining a superior competitive position in the infant formula and adult nutritional product markets. Many potential competitors, which include companies such as BASF AG, Cargill Inc., Suntory Limited, Celanese Corporation, Lonza Group LTD and Nagase & Co. Ltd., have substantially greater research and development capabilities, marketing, financial and managerial resources and experience in the industry. Some of these competitors are currently offering competing sources of DHA and ARA for use in the adult market and for use in infant formula outside the U.S. If a competitor develops a better product or technology, our competitors’ products gain widespread acceptance, or we lose our patents, the sales of our products may be materially adversely affected and our technologies rendered obsolete. We are aware that other sources of DHA and ARA are, or may, be available, any of which could represent a competitive threat that could seriously harm our product sales. Specifically: • the Ross Products Division of Abbott Laboratories, a significant Martek licensee and customer, filed a generally recognized as safe notification on January 2, 2002 seeking Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) concurrence that its fish oil source of DHA and its fungal source of ARA are generally recognized as safe when used as ingredients in infant formula. At this time, the notification continues to be under consideration by the FDA; • Reliant Pharmaceuticals launched Omacor, a DHA/ EPA ethyl ester, in the second half of 2005 for treatment of hyperlipidemia. Omacor is a lipid-regulating agent which includes both EPA and DHA from fish oil. We expect additional studies to expand the approved indications for Omacor. Other pharmaceutical applications using omega-3 fatty acids may be expected. • Suntory Limited, Cargill Inc., through a joint venture with a company in China, and other independent Chinese manufacturers are producing and distributing a fungal source of ARA. In addition, we are aware that there may be manufacturers in China attempting to produce an algal source of DHA, but we are uncertain of the overall status and commercial potential of these development efforts; 19 • some infant formulas now on the market outside the United States use DHA derived from other sources, such as fish oil or eggs; • Nutrinova Nutrition Specialties & Food Ingredients GmbH, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Celanese Corporation, has been actively marketing a DHA-rich microalgal oil to the food and beverage and dietary supplement markets in the United States, China and Europe. We have filed a patent infringement suit against Nutrinova in both the United States and Germany. These lawsuits are further described in Item 3 of Part I of this Form 10-K, “Legal Proceedings.” In December 2005, it was announced that Nutrinova’s DHA business has been sold to Lonza Group LTD, a Swiss chemical and biotechnology group.; and • other companies, several with greater financial resources than ours, are developing plant-based DHA and other companies are developing chemically synthesized DHA. Several large companies, including BASF AG, DSM and Ocean Nutrition, and a number of smaller companies, manufacture microencapsulated fish oil products. Although microencapsulation of the oil resolves many of the odor, stability and taste issues found with fish oil, a microencapsulated product currently is more costly than regular fish oil. Fish oil-based products currently dominate the adult DHA supplement market and certain foods containing fish oils are on the market in various parts of the world. Because fish oil is generally less costly than our DHA oil and continues to improve in quality and gain general market acceptance, fish oil presents a substantial competitive threat. If clinical trials do not continue to yield positive results on the benefits of DHA on cognitive function, cardiovascular health or other health applications, our future revenues may be limited in the food and beverage market and the dietary supplement market. In addition to sales into the infant formula market, approximately 1% and 2% of our product sales revenues in the years ended October 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, came from sales of our nutritional oils to the adult supplement and food and beverage markets. Investigators at universities and at other research centers, such as the National Institutes of Health, have observed a relationship between low levels of DHA and a variety of health risks. We are currently trying to establish what contribution, if any, supplementation with our oils will make in addressing these problems. Although clinical data are not required to market food and beverage ingredients or dietary supplements outside of the infant formula market, we believe that further clinical studies may be needed to validate the benefits of DHA supplementation in order to gain widespread entry into these markets. If clinical trials do not continue to yield positive results on the benefits of DHA, our future revenues in these markets may be limited. Our current patents may not be able to provide protection against competitive products and we may be unable to protect our intellectual property portfolio in the future. European and United States patent authorities have not adopted a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed for health and bioscience patents. Our issued patents, or patents that we may obtain in the future, may not afford adequate protection against competing technology because governmental agencies may revoke our patents or may limit the scope of our patents or private parties may be successful in challenging the validity or enforceability of our patents. If any of these happen, companies may be able to produce products using our previously patented technology. A number of our competitors have challenged our patents, particularly in Europe: • Aventis S.A. and Nagase & Co. Ltd. are challenging our European patent covering our DHA-containing oils. At a hearing in October 2000, the Opposition Division of the European Patent Office (“EPO”) revoked our patent on the grounds that it was not novel. We immediately appealed this ruling, and in July 2002 we received a positive ruling from an Appeal Board of the EPO, setting aside the prior decision to revoke this patent. The patent was returned to the Opposition Division for a determination as to whether it has met the legal requirement of “inventive step”. A hearing in August 2005 resulted in a ruling by the Opposition Division that this requirement had been met and the validity of the patent was upheld. Aventis has appealed the decision to the Appeal Board of the EPO. The appeal process is not expected to be completed before 2007. Claim 1 of this patent is the basis of the patent infringement suit against Nutrinova in Germany, discussed below. • With respect to our ARA patent issued by the EPO, BASF AG, Friesland Brands B.V., and Suntory Limited filed their grounds for opposing this patent with the Opposition Division of the EPO. At a hearing at the Opposition Division in April 2005, the Opposition Division of the EPO upheld the patent in a form containing modified claims that are narrower than the claims originally granted. In an effort to broaden the claims of the patent, we appealed the decision. Suntory and BASF have also appealed. The patent in the form containing the claims that were originally granted will remain in full force and effect throughout the appeal process. The appeal process is not expected to be completed until late 2006 or 2007. • With respect to our blended oil (blend of DHA and ARA oils for use in various applications, including infant formula) patent issued by the EPO, BASF AG and Suntory Limited filed their grounds for opposing this patent with the Opposition Division of the EPO. In November 2004, the Opposition Division of the EPO revoked Martek’s European blended oil patent as a result of these challenges. We immediately filed an appeal of this decision; as a consequence, the blended oil patent has been reinstated and will remain in full force and effect during the appeal. Suntory has responded to our appeal and BASF has until February 2006 to respond. The appeal process is not expected to be completed until 2007. • Prior to our purchase of OmegaTech, Aventis Research and Technologies GmbH & Co. KG, and Nagase Limited challenged OmegaTech’s European patent covering its DHA–containing oils. At a hearing in December 2000, the Opposition Division of the EPO upheld some of the claims and revoked other claims. OmegaTech immediately appealed this ruling, as did Aventis. At an appeal hearing in May 2005, we received a favorable decision from the Appeal Board of the EPO, which overturned the decision of the Opposition Division and returned the case to the Opposition Division for review on the merits of the patent claims. Any decision made by the Opposition Division can be 20 appealed. Assuming an appeal, the review process is expected to take approximately three to four years to complete, during which time the patent will remain in full force and effect. • An EPO Opposition Division hearing was held on November 15, 2005, with respect to a European DHA patent acquired by Martek as part of the OmegaTech purchase. The patent was upheld in modified form. This patent is directed to processes for fermenting Thraustochytrium and Schizochytrium under low chloride conditions and the resulting products. Nutrinova Nutrition Specialities & Food Ingredients GmbH is the only opponent, and we expect it to appeal. The appeal process is not expected to be completed before 2007. • In September 2003, we filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the U.S. District Court in Delaware against Nutrinova Inc., Nutrinova Nutrition Specialties & Food Ingredients GmbH, Celanese Ventures GmbH, and Celanese AG alleging infringement of two of our U.S. patents. Celanese Ventures GmbH and Celanese AG have been dropped from the lawsuit. We have added an additional three patents to the suit, bringing the total number that Nutrinova is accused of infringing to five patents. The lawsuit alleges that Nutrinova has been making, using, offering to sell, selling and/or importing into the United States DHA that infringes the patents. In October 2003, Nutrinova filed counterclaims alleging inequitable conduct and invalidity, unenforceability and/or noninfringement of 19 of our U.S. patents. The case has now been limited to the five patents which Martek has sued Nutrinova for infringement. A scheduling hearing in the case was held in January 2005, and the trial is scheduled for October 2006. In July 2005, the court granted Martek’s motion to add as a defendant in the case a company that is a U.S. customer for Nutrinova’s DHA. A hearing before the court on the meaning and scope of the patent claims in dispute was held in late November 2005, and the judge issued his decision in December 2005. We also filed a patent infringement suit involving Nutrinova Nutrition Specialties & Food Ingredients GmbH and Celanese Ventures GmbH in Germany in January 2004. The complaint alleges infringement of our European patent relating to DHA-containing oils. A hearing in this case was held in a district court in Dusseldorf in April 2005 and the court delayed its decision pending input from a court-appointed technical expert. The court’s decision is expected at some point in the second half of 2006. • Suntory has opposed our blended oil patent in Japan, where we believe there currently are no sales of infant formula containing our blended oils. The patent was revoked by the Japanese Patent Office and the revocation upheld by the Tokyo High Court in September 2004. We appealed this decision to the Japanese Supreme Court and, as expected, that court has declined to hear the matter. Thus, the revocation of this patent has become final. With respect to our Japanese ARA patent, the same result has been reached. • With respect to our ARA patent in South Korea, where we believe there are limited sales of infant formula containing our ARA oil, Suntory has also filed an opposition. A hearing on the matter has not been scheduled, but is expected in the first calendar quarter of 2006. Suntory has also initiated an invalidation case against our blended oil patent in South Korea. Our response to Suntory was filed in February 2005. No hearing date has been set, and is not expected before late 2006. At this point, it is not possible to indicate what the likely outcome of these two South Korean matters will be. If any of the challenges described above or any other challenges to our patents that may arise in the future are successful, our competitors may be able to produce similar products and, as a result, we may experience decreases in the future sales of our nutritional oils, decreases in the royalty revenues on sales of infant formula containing our oils and decreases in license fees related to our oils. If our products are found to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we may have to pay substantial damages. The revocation of our European DHA patent, ARA patent or blended oils patent could result in a decrease in revenues under our license agreements. We expect that in the future, as our nutritional oils continue to be commercialized, opposition to our intellectual property by our competitors will continue and most likely increase. We may incur substantial costs in the future protecting and defending our patents and cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully defend our patents or that our competitors will not be able to “design around” our intellectual property. We have a single third-party supplier of our ARA with whom we have a contractual relationship. If this supplier of our ARA is unable to supply us with our required amounts of ARA or if an over-capacity situation by our supplier leads to higher cost ARA, our results of operations and/or financial position may be adversely affected. We have entered into an agreement with a third-party manufacturer, DSM, to supply ARA out of its plants in Capua, Italy and Belvidere, New Jersey. Because DSM is a third-party manufacturer, we do not have full control over the timing and level of its Capua and Belvidere production volumes. If DSM fails to supply us with required amounts of ARA under our agreement, we would not be able to meet our customers’ demands unless we were able to utilize alternative sources of supply. In this regard, we would have to either manufacture the ARA at one or both of our plants, which may be more costly and would also reduce our DHA oil production capacity, or enter into other third-party manufacturer supply agreements which we may not be able to do in a timely manner. Furthermore, due to certain contractual provisions, if our demand for ARA falls short of DSM’s supply capability, this excess capacity by our supplier would result in higher unit-based ARA costs to us. If we are unable to purchase or produce sufficient and/or cost-effective quantities of ARA, our future results of operations and/or financial position may be adversely affected. If we are unable to successfully expand, continuously utilize and adequately manage our production capacity or enter into favorable agreements with third parties to produce our oils or if our suppliers fail to produce and supply us with adequate amounts of oil, our customers may not be able to obtain a sufficient supply of DHA and ARA from us and our future revenues from these products may be limited. From fiscal 2003 through early fiscal 2005, the demand for our nutritional oils by our customers for use in infant formula products exceeded production output and capacity and, as such, we limited the orders we accepted for our nutritional oils. Some of our customers responded to the shortages and inconsistent supply by building inventory, and we have had difficulty in predicting with certainty what our customers’ future ordering would be in light of limited visibility into our customers’ supply chains and expansion plans. With this limited visibility into customer demand, we 21 may be unable to provide the required quantities of oil cost-effectively, and we may have difficulties managing our product inventories or forecasting demand, which could result in shortfalls or excess supply. In addition, due to our historic production capacity issue, our customers may seek alternative sources of supply, delay entry into new markets or generally decrease their orders from us. Although some of our licensees have a right to manufacture DHA and ARA, we are not aware of any of our licensees doing so or preparing to do so. Our future revenues from sales of our nutritional oils may be limited if (a) we are unable to manufacture or cost-effectively manufacture our DHA-containing oil at our Winchester and Kingstree plants; (b) we are unable to enter into other satisfactory and timely third-party manufacturing agreements; (c) we and DSM are unable to produce adequate supplies of ARA and/or DHA-containing oils; (d) our licensees are able to find alternative sources for DHA or ARA; or (e) we are unable to adequately manage our production capacity in light of customer expectations and demand. As we and our major suppliers increase production of our nutritional oils, we may experience certain risks associated with the start-up/ ramp-up of commercial manufacturing that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/ or results of operations. We have completed our extensive expansion in Kingstree for the fermentation and processing of our nutritional oils and DSM has completed its ARA production expansion in Belvidere, New Jersey and Capua, Italy. When combining our current DHA production capabilities in Winchester and Kingstree with DSM’s current ARA production capabilities in Italy and the U.S., we currently have production capacity for all DHA and ARA products in excess of $500 million in annualized sales of our oils to the infant formula, dietary supplement and food and beverage markets. Our and DSM’s ability to maintain commercial production at these higher levels has not been successfully tested. Further, we may have periods of overcapacity because of potential excess supply versus customer demand. As we and our major suppliers increase our production, we may encounter many risks associated with our commercial manufacturing such as: • we may experience problems processing, handling and shipping the higher quantities of oil produced from our expanded facilities; • the costs of expanding, operating and maintaining our production facilities may exceed our expectations; • product defects may result; • lower than anticipated fermentation success rates may result; • lower downstream processing yields may result; • environmental and safety problems may result from our production process; and • regulatory issues relating to the scale-up and operation regarding our production process may arise. If we were to experience any one or more of these problems, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/ or results of operations. We have significantly increased our manufacturing capacity and have incurred substantial costs in doing so. If we are unable to increase our revenues from our nutritional oils produced at these facilities, we may experience excess production capacity and we may be unable to recover these plant expansion costs. In connection with our efforts to alleviate supply constraints with our infant formula licensees and to prepare for other applications of our products, we have completed a build-out of our Winchester, Kentucky facility and have completed an extensive expansion of our Kingstree, South Carolina facility. The build-out at these two facilities was expensive, and our ability to recover the costs we incurred in the build-outs will depend on increased revenue from, and greater manufacturing efficiency achieved in the production of, our nutritional oils produced at these facilities. There are no assurances that we will be able to achieve these goals. We are currently in and may continue to face a period of excess production capacity. When experiencing excess capacity, we may be unable to produce the required quantities of oil cost-effectively, which could have a material adverse effect on our product margins and overall profitability. In addition, in accordance with SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” if it is estimated that we will not be able to ultimately recover the carrying amounts of the production assets, we would be required to record an asset impairment write-down. The effect of such write-down could be material. Failure to effectively manage our growth could disrupt our operations and prevent us from generating the revenues and gross profit margins we expect. In response to current and expected demand for our nutritional oils, we have been actively working to expand our production capabilities. To manage our growth successfully we must implement, constantly improve and effectively utilize our operational and financial systems while expanding our production capacity and workforce. We must also maintain and strengthen the breadth and depth of our current strategic relationships while developing new relationships. Our existing or planned operational and financial systems may not be sufficient to support our growth; we may not successfully control production costs and maintain current and anticipated gross profit levels; and our management may not be able to effectively identify, manage and exploit existing and emerging market opportunities. If we do not adequately manage our growth, our business and future revenues will suffer. 22 Experts differ in their opinions on the importance of DHA and/or ARA in infant formula and the levels of DHA and/or ARA required to achieve health benefits for babies. Some experts feel that they are not necessary ingredients for infant development and that supplemented formulas will remain a premium product and never gain widespread acceptance worldwide. If clinical trials do not continue to yield positive results and certain favorable regulatory guidelines are not enacted, our future revenues in the infant formula market may be limited. Our success in the infant formula industry depends on growing acceptance of our nutritional oils as necessary or beneficial additives to infant formulas. Notwithstanding existing clinical results that have demonstrated the beneficial effects of adding our nutritional oils to infant formula, some experts in the field of infant nutrition do not believe that our nutritional oils are necessary or that they provide any long-term beneficial effects. There have also been clinical studies where no beneficial effects have been found, possibly due to dose, duration or other factors. Experts generally recommend that mothers breastfeed rather than use infant formulas whether or not they contain our nutritional oils. Some experts also believe that infant formula without our oils contains sufficient precursor fats that infants can convert into DHA and ARA as needed. In addition, some physicians are unimpressed by studies showing that infant formulas fortified with our oils improve infants’ cognitive ability at early ages, suggesting that these results may not carry over to improved results later in life. Due to these differences in opinion, we are subject to the risk that the use of DHA and/or ARA in infant formula may never gain widespread acceptance worldwide. Furthermore, a failure by one or more regulatory authorities to enact guidelines for minimum levels of DHA and/or ARA for supplementation of infant formula products could result in lower-potency formula products in specific affected countries which could reduce the market opportunity for DHA and ARA ingredients. Any regulatory guidelines for infant formula which permit inclusion of DHA and ARA ingredients containing higher levels of eicosapentaenoic acid (“EPA”) than covered in Martek’s patents could also reduce the market opportunity for Martek’s DHA and ARA ingredients in affected countries. Our oils are very sensitive to oxidation and may not be very compatible with many liquid or dry foods that are currently on the market. If economical methods are not developed to successfully incorporate our oils into various food and beverage applications, we may never be able to gain large-scale entry into the food and beverage market. Although we believe that the food and beverage market could be a large market for DHA fortification with our DHA-S oil, the potential in this market could be limited if methods are not developed that allow incorporation of the oil into various foods and beverages with acceptable flavor and texture for the duration of the shelf life of the food and beverage products. While DHA-enriched food and beverage products with acceptable flavor and stability have been developed, risks exist for other finished food and beverage products, such as cereals, milk and certain types of nutritional bars for which DHA fortification has not yet been successfully established. Even if we can successfully incorporate our oils into foods and beverages, manufacturers of these products will have to develop methods to demonstrate feasibility in their production processes. The timing and extent of our sales into the food and beverage market, therefore, are dependent not only on market demand, but also on manufacturing issues over which we have little or no control. If it is determined that large amounts of eicosapentaenoic acid (“EPA”) must be added to DHA in order to achieve optimal health benefits, we may never be able to gain large- scale entry into the food and beverage market. The rationale for supplementing foods and beverages with DHA is to, in part, improve overall cardiovascular system and/or central nervous system development and health. In September of 2004, the FDA authorized a qualified health claim that may be utilized for food and beverage products containing both DHA and EPA relating to the reduction of risk of coronary heart disease. No minimum amounts for either DHA or EPA were established as prerequisites for the claim. Our DHA-S oil includes limited amounts of EPA and therefore products containing the DHA-S oil qualify for use of the qualified health claim. Studies have been completed in the past to investigate the independent effects of DHA and EPA on health and additional studies may be on-going or conducted in the future. If the consensus of results from these studies establishes that relatively large amounts of EPA are required to be supplemented with DHA in order to achieve the optimal health benefit, then our penetration of the food and beverage market may be limited. Because infant formula pricing is very competitive, the premium that our oils adds to the cost of the formula may never allow it to be priced at levels that will allow worldwide acceptance by consumers. Infant formula pricing is very competitive and the market is very sensitive to product price changes. Because the inclusion of our oils into infant formula may add 10% to 20% to the retail cost of standard infant formula, there is the risk that our licensees may not be able to sell supplemented products at prices that will allow them to gain worldwide market acceptance while, at the same time, remaining profitable. This may lead to price pressure on us. If we have to reduce our prices, we may not be able to sell products at a price that would enable us to be profitable. We are prohibited from granting a license to any party for the inclusion of our nutritional oils in infant formula with payment terms or royalty rates that are more favorable than those provided to the licensees under the terms of several of our current license agreements without either the written consent of those current licensees or prospectively offering such new more favorable terms to those current licensees. If market demand for our products continues to grow, we may need significant additional capital to expand our production capability. We may also need additional capital in the future to continue our research and development efforts, to conduct product testing, including preclinical and clinical trials, and to market our products. As of October 31, 2005, we had approximately $33.3 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as well as $80 million of our revolving credit facility available to meet future capital requirements. We have completed our Kingstree expansion; however, our ability to meet future demand may require even further expansion of our production capability for our nutritional oils. We also may require additional capital to fund 23 our internal build-up of inventory levels, research and development, product testing, and marketing activities. The timing and extent of our additional cash needs will primarily depend on: (a) the timing and extent of future launches of infant formula products containing our oils by our licensees; (b) the timing and extent of introductions of DHA into foods and beverages and/or dietary supplements for children and adults; (c) whether or not we enter into collaborations with third parties to produce our nutritional oils; and (d) our ability to generate profits from the sales of our nutritional products. To continue to fund our growth, we will pursue various sources of funding, which may include debt financing, equity issuances, asset-based borrowing, lease financing, and collaborative arrangements with partners. In September 2005, we amended and expanded our secured revolving credit facility to $135 million and extended the term until September 2010. This debt financing arrangement requires us to comply with financial covenants, which we may not be able to meet if demand for our products was to significantly decline, if there was a significant change in our financial position or if our cash needs are greater than we currently anticipate. Additionally, funding from other sources may not be available, or may not be available on terms that would be commercially acceptable or permit us to continue the planned commercialization of our products or expansion of our production capacity. In August 2004, our shelf registration statement was declared effective by the SEC. The shelf registration statement enables us to issue debt securities, preferred stock, common stock and warrants in the aggregate amount of up to $200 million, of which approximately $110 million is currently available for future issuance. Future equity issuances may be dilutive to our existing shareholders. If we obtain funds through collaborative or strategic partners, these partners may require us to give them technology or product rights, including patent rights, that could ultimately diminish our value. If we cannot secure adequate funding, we may need to scale back our research, development, manufacturing, and commercialization programs, which may have a material adverse effect on our future business. The market price of our common stock may experience a high level of volatility due to factors such as the volatility in the market for biotechnology stocks generally, and the short-term effect of a number of possible events. We are a public growth company in the biosciences sector. As frequently occurs among these companies, the market price for our common stock may experience a high level of volatility. During the fifty-two week period ending October 31, 2005, our common stock traded between $70.50 and $28.20 per share. During the fifty-two week period ending October 31, 2004, our common stock traded between $73.36 and $43.89 per share. The following are examples of items that may significantly impact the market price for our common stock: • announcements of technical innovations, new commercial products and product launches by us or our competitors; • arrangements or strategic partnerships by us or our competitors; • announcements of license agreements, acquisitions or strategic alliances; • announcements of sales by us or our competitors; • patent or other intellectual property achievements or adverse developments; • quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and results of operations; • failure or delay in expansion and continuous operation regarding our commercial manufacturing or failure or delay of our third-party manufacturers in expansion and continuous operation regarding their commercial manufacturing; • failure to enter into favorable third-party manufacturing agreements; • regulatory decisions (approvals or disapprovals) or changes concerning our products and our competitors’ products; • announcements related to threatened, new or existing litigation; • changes in our estimates of financial performance or changes in recommendations by securities analysts; and • general market conditions for growth companies and bioscience companies. Because we may experience a high level of volatility in our common stock, you should not invest in our stock unless you are prepared to absorb a significant loss of your capital. At any given time, you may not be able to sell your shares at a price that you think is acceptable. The market liquidity for our stock is relatively low. As of October 31, 2005, we had 32,026,595 shares of common stock outstanding. The average daily trading volume in our common stock during the fifty-two week period ending October 31, 2005 was approximately 1.1 million shares. Although a more active trading market may develop in the future, the limited market liquidity for our stock may affect your ability to sell at a price that is satisfactory to you. If significant shares eligible for future sales are sold, the result may depress our stock price by increasing the supply of our shares in the market at a time when demand may be limited. As of October 31, 2005, we had 32,026,595 shares of common stock outstanding, stock options outstanding to purchase an aggregate of approximately 3.9 million shares of common stock and warrants outstanding to purchase up to approximately 31,000 shares of common stock at an 24 exercise price of $19.05 per share. Of these options and warrants, approximately 3.5 million were exercisable at January 11, 2006. Furthermore, we have filed a universal shelf registration statement with the SEC, which was declared effective in August 2004, pursuant to which we may issue debt securities, preferred stock, common stock and warrants to purchase debt securities, preferred stock or common stock in an aggregate amount of up to $200 million, of which approximately $110 million is currently available for future issuance. To the extent that these options and warrants for our common stock are exercised or we issue additional shares to raise capital, the increase in the number of our outstanding shares of common stock may adversely affect the price for our common stock. This could hurt our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity securities. If we continue to require additional outside sources of capital to finance, among other things, our research and development, product testing and the manufacturing and marketing of our products, we may need to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. We have agreed to issue and register for resale up to 1,931,853 additional shares, to former OmegaTech stockholders and option holders pursuant to our Agreement and Plan of Merger with OmegaTech, if certain regulatory and financial milestones were achieved by October 31, 2004. The representative for these interest holders has asserted that shares related to two of these milestones should be issued, an assertion with which we do not agree. While we have not resolved this matter, a substantial number of these additional shares would be issued and become eligible for resale if it were determined that these two milestones were achieved. See Item 3 of Part I of this Form 10-K, “Legal Proceedings,” for further discussion. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that these sales could occur, which could limit your ability to sell at a price satisfactory to you. Our business would be harmed if we fail to comply with applicable good manufacturing practices as required by the FDA. In connection with the manufacture of certain of our products, we are required to adhere to applicable current “good manufacturing practice” (“GMP”) requirements as required by the FDA. GMP regulations specify component and product testing standards, control quality assurance requirements and records and other documentation controls. As the manufacturer of DHA and ARA that are marketed as dietary supplements and used as ingredients in infant formulas sold in the United States, and may be used in food and beverages, we are subject to GMP and various other requirements applicable to such products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to manufacture our nutritional oils in accordance with relevant dietary supplement and infant formula requirements for commercial use. Ongoing compliance with GMP and other applicable regulatory requirements is monitored through periodic inspections by state and federal agencies, including the FDA and comparable agencies in other countries. A determination that we are in violation of such GMP and other regulations could lead to an interruption of our production output and the imposition of civil penalties, including fines, product recalls or product seizures, and, in the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions. Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable federal and state regulations. Our business is subject to extensive federal and state regulation. Current products and products in development cannot be sold if we or our customers do not obtain or maintain regulatory approvals. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program, we cannot assure you that we or our employees are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable federal and state regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations a range of actions could result, materially affecting our business and financial condition , including, but not limited to, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, including withdrawal of our products from the market, significant fines, or other sanctions. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims and recalls, and our insurance may not provide adequate coverage. Our development, manufacture and marketing of products involve an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls, product seizures and related adverse publicity. In addition, as only a small amount of our oils resides in our customers’ end product, a recall of our oils could impact a much larger recall of our customers’ end products. Insurance coverage is expensive and difficult to obtain, and we may be unable to obtain coverage in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. Although we currently maintain product liability and recall insurance for our products in the amounts we believe to be commercially reasonable, we cannot be certain that the coverage limits of our insurance policies or those of our strategic partners will be adequate. If we are unable to obtain sufficient insurance at an acceptable cost, if a product liability claim is made against us, or if there is a product recall, whether fully covered by insurance or not, our business and future sales could be adversely impacted. Our opportunity in the U.S. infant formula market may be limited by the renewal rate of supplemented formulas into the Women, Infants and Children program. We estimate that of our total current annual U.S. market opportunity for sales of supplemented infant formula, approximately half will come from Women, Infant and Children (“WIC”)-funded sales. Most WIC state agencies provide only one brand of infant formula to its participants, depending on which company has the rebate contract in a particular state. WIC programs in all 50 states and the District of Columbia have adopted a brand of infant formula supplemented with our oils. WIC is a federal grant program that is state-administered for the benefit of low-income nutritionally at-risk women, infants and children. If supplemented formulas are removed from WIC programs that previously adopted them or if any of our licensees fail to renew, in a timely fashion, their contract awards from WIC agencies for the adoption of a supplemented infant formula, then our future revenues from supplemented infant formula sales in the U.S. would be limited. 25 Our manufacturing process involves the handling of hazardous materials and the mishandling of these hazardous materials could result in substantial costs and harm to our business. In connection with our research and manufacturing activities, we utilize some hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and management of hazardous materials and specified waste products. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be significant. Moreover, we could be subject to loss of our permits, government fines or penalties and/or other adverse governmental or private party action if such hazardous materials are used, stored, handled, emitted or otherwise managed in violation of law or any permit. In addition, we could be subject to liability if hazardous materials are released into the environment. A substantial fine, penalty or judgment, the payment of significant environmental remediation costs or property or personal injury damages, or the loss of a permit or other authorization to operate or engage in our ordinary course of business could result in material, unanticipated expenses and the possible inability to satisfy customer demand for our nutritional oils. We learned in March 2004 that the federal Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), utilizing personnel from its Criminal Investigation Division, had asked questions of current and former Martek employees relating to a March 12, 2003 explosion that occurred at a public wastewater treatment plant in Winchester, Kentucky and relating to n-hexane. Current and former employees have testified before a federal grand jury that is investigating the matter. We further learned in April 2005 that the EPA has interviewed two additional employees of Martek and has requested information from the Winchester Municipal Utilities Commission on a number of matters including the March 12, 2003 explosion. Our adoption of the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment,” or alternative incentive compensation plans that we could adopt, could result in our recognition of significant additional compensation expense. In October 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board concluded that SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment” (“SFAS 123R”), would be effective for interim or annual periods beginning after June 15, 2005. In April 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission delayed the effective date of SFAS 123R to the annual period beginning after June 15, 2005. We will adopt SFAS 123R in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, and we currently plan to apply SFAS 123R’s modified prospective method, whereby a company recognizes share-based employee costs from the beginning of the fiscal period in which the recognition provisions are first applied as if the fair-value-based accounting method had been used to account for all employee awards granted, modified, or settled after the effective date and to any awards that were not fully vested as of the effective date. SFAS 123R and the related accounting is described in more detail in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements under the heading “Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements.” In December 2004 and January and May 2005, we accelerated the vesting of certain unvested stock options previously issued by us. The accelerations will enable us to avoid recording approximately $27 million of future compensation cost that would have been required to be recognized under SFAS 123R. After giving effect to these accelerations of vesting and based upon our projection of unvested stock options at the implementation date and potential future option grants, we expect the adoption to result in the recognition of additional compensation cost of approximately $3.0 million to $4.0 million during fiscal 2006. In light of our anticipated adoption of SFAS 123R, we and our compensation committee are reevaluating our current incentive compensation plans and may adopt new plans that involve equity, cash or other forms of incentive compensation that may increase the absolute amount or volatility of our future compensation expense. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates could result in losses. Beginning in January of 2004, our purchases of ARA from DSM’s Capua, Italy plant were denominated in euros. Fluctuations in the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate can adversely impact our cost of ARA oil and our gross margins. To reduce the risk of unpredictable changes in these costs, we may, from time to time, enter into forward foreign exchange contracts. However, due to the variability of timing and amount of payments under these contracts, the forward foreign exchange contracts may not mitigate the potential adverse impact on our financial results and in fact may themselves cause financial harm. We have entered into foreign currency forward contracts with outstanding notional values aggregating approximately 1.0 million euros at October 31, 2005. The terms of these contracts are from 30 to 120 days. We are a defendant in putative class action lawsuits which, if determined adversely, could have a material adverse affect on us. As described in detail in this report under Part I Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” we, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer were named as defendants in putative class action lawsuits filed in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. The District Court consolidated these lawsuits into one action. The consolidated complaint generally seeks recovery of unspecified damages for persons who purchased our shares during the period from December 9, 2004 through April 27, 2005. The complaint asserts claims under federal securities laws arising from statements made in or omitted from our registration statement for our January 2005 public offering and several public statements made by the defendants during the purported class period, and alleges that we and the individually named defendants made materially false and misleading public statements and failed to disclose material facts necessary in order to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, concerning our business and prospects. We intend to vigorously defend against the plaintiffs’ claims. As this litigation is in an initial stage, management is unable to predict its outcome or its ultimate effect, if any, on our financial condition. However, we expect that the costs and expenses related to this litigation may be significant. Although we have director and officer liability insurance policies (which, subject to the terms and conditions thereof, also provide “entity coverage” for us for this litigation) in place, we are responsible for certain costs and expenses relating to the lawsuits. Also, a judgment in or settlement of this action could exceed our insurance coverage. If we are not successful in defending this action, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, whether or not we are successful, the defense of this action may divert the attention of our management and other resources that would otherwise be engaged in running our business. 26 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 