ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risk factors set forth herein, as well as other information we include in this report and the additional information in the other reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC” or the “Commission”). If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Customer Concentration A substantial portion of our nutritional ingredients sales is made to three of our existing customers under agreements with no minimum purchase requirements. If demand by these customers for our nutritional ingredients decreases, our revenues may materially decline. We rely on a substantial portion of our nutritional ingredients sales to three of our existing customers. Approximately 60% of our nutritional ingredients sales in the year ended October 31, 2010 were generated by sales of DHA and ARA to three customers: Mead Johnson Nutritionals, Abbott Nutrition and Nestle. We cannot guarantee that these customers will continue to demand our nutritional products at current or predictable levels. None of our license agreements or license and supply agreements requires our customers to purchase any minimum amount of products from us now or in the future, and certain of our license agreements can be terminated within short periods and also allow our customers to manufacture our products themselves or purchase nutritional ingredients from other sources. We have limited visibility into our customers’ future actual level of demand, notwithstanding our view of consumer dem and. If demand by any of our significant customers for our nutritional products decreases, we may experience a material decline in our revenues. We have sole-source supply agreements with customers comprising approximately 75% of our current infant formula revenues. These sole-source arrangements include the supply agreements recently extended with Mead Johnson Nutritionals, Pfizer, Danone and Abbott Nutrition, which are now extended at least through calendar 2015, 2015, 2014 and 2016, respectively. The agreements with Mead Johnson Nutritionals, Abbott Nutrition and Pfizer provide for graduated price reductions over the term beginning in 2010. Martek’s strategy is to offset a significant portion of these price reductions that result from its infant formula contract extensions by implementing manufacturing cost savings and product innovation initiatives, and by growing its non-infant formula business. None of these strategies is assured and if such strategies are unsuccessful, we will likely experience a material decline in profita bility. We are also currently attempting to enter into new supply arrangements or extensions thereof with other customers, but our ultimate success in doing so is uncertain. If we are unable to successfully enter into these new or extended arrangements, our future infant formula revenues may materially decline. Furthermore, even if we are successful in the execution of these remaining agreements, the resulting arrangements will include price reductions similar to those included in the extensions noted above, which could yield additional decreases to our future infant formula revenues. If purchasing patterns by our significant customers continue to be uneven or inconsistent, we will likely experience fluctuations in our quarter-to-quarter revenues and cash flows. In addition, if these customers attempt to utilize their purchasing power in order to receive price reductions on our products, we may be unable to maintain prices of our oils at current levels, which could materially affect future revenues and product margins. Our major customers are part of either the pharmaceutical or food and beverage industries. Mergers and acquisitions are prevalent in both industries. If one of our major customers or divisions thereof is acquired, as there are no minimum purchase requirements in our license agreements with them, there is no guarantee that the acquirer will continue purchasing our oils at current levels or continue selling infant formula at all. An acquisition of one of our major customers could have a material effect on future revenues. Our major customers also employ differing strategies with respect to the timing of their inventory and raw material purchases. To the extent that these strategies change (i.e., further advancements to a “just-in-time” procurement process), our revenues in the quarter of such change could be materially affected by this modification in customer ordering patterns. In addition, our major customers use varying inclusion levels of DHA and ARA in their infant formulas. If significant changes in their market shares occur, or, in general, our customers reduce such inclusion levels, we could experience material changes in our infant formula revenues. 23 Table of Contents A substantial portion of our branded consumer health product sales is made to two of our existing customers under agreements with no minimum purchase requirements. If demand by these customers decreases, the revenues associated with this business may materially decline. Approximately 40% of our branded consumer health products sales were generated by sales to two customers. We cannot guarantee that these customers will continue to demand our products at current levels. Our supply arrangements with these customers do not require them to purchase any minimum amount of products from us now or in the future. We have limited visibility into our customers’ future actual level of demand, notwithstanding our view of consumer demand. If demand by these significant customers decreases, we may experience a material decline in our branded consumer health products revenues. Furthermore, if purchasing patterns by our significant customers are uneven or inconsistent, we will likely experience fluctuations in the quarter-to-quarter revenues and cash flows of the branded consumer health products business. Competition We are aware of several products that are currently available, and products under development, that may present a serious competitive threat to our nutritional ingredients. If we are unable to maintain a competitive differentiation from these products, our revenues may be adversely affected. Our continued success and growth depends upon achieving and maintaining a superior competitive position in the infant formula, supplement and food and beverage product markets. Fish oil-based products currently dominate the adult DHA supplement market and certain foods and beverages containing fish oils are on the market in various parts of the world. DHA-containing fish oils for infant formula applications provide an alternative to our DHA nutritional oil and are used by certain of our customers and other infant formula manufacturers outside the United States. Because fish oil is generally less costly then our DHA oil and continues to improve in quality and gain market acceptance, fish oil presents a substantial competitive threat to our DHA products. Potential competitors include companies such as BASF AG, DSM, Cargill Inc., Nippon Suisan, Suntory Limited, Archer Daniels Midland Company, Lonza Group LTD, DuPont, Nagase & Co. Ltd., Ocean Nutrition Canada (“ONC”) and Monsanto/Solae. Many of these companies have substantially greater research and development capabilities, marketing, financial and managerial resources and experience in the industry. Some of our competitors are currently offering, at prices less than ours, competing sources of DHA (fish oil-based or other) and/or ARA for use in the food and beverage and dietary supplement markets and for use in infant formula. If our competitors’ products gain widespread acceptance due to pricing or other advantages, our patents expire, or we lose our patents, the sales of our products may be materially adversely affected and our technologies rendered obsolete. We are aware that other sources of DHA and ARA are or may be available, any of which could represent a competitive threat that could seriously harm our product sales. Specifically: · Abbott Nutrition (then known as the Ross Products Division of Abbott Laboratories), a significant Martek customer, filed a generally recognized as safe notification on January 2, 2002 seeking Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) concurrence that its tuna oil source of DHA and its fungal source of ARA, as manufactured by Suntory Limited, are generally recognized as safe when used as ingredients in infant formula. In April 2006, the FDA notified Ross Products that it had no questions at that time regarding Ross’ conclusion that DHA-rich oil from tuna and ARA-rich oil from Mortierella alpina (ARA produced by Suntory Limited) are safe as sources of DHA and ARA in term and post-discharge preterm infant formulas. While Abbott Nutrition has not announced any introduction of such oils into infant formula in the U.S. and has agreed to purchase its total needs for DHA and ARA from us through at least 2016, and while we are not aware of any plans by our other customers to do so, the GRAS notification removes a significant regulatory hurdle to the introduction of competitive products in the United States. · Suntory Limited, Nippon Suisan and Cargill Inc. (through a joint venture with a company in China) and other independent Chinese manufacturers are producing and distributing a fungal source of ARA. Such ARA from the Cargill joint venture is currently under review by the FDA in connection with a GRAS notification by Cargill seeking concurrence that this ARA is GRAS when used in infant formula. In addition, we are aware that there are manufacturers in China producing an algal source of DHA. ONC has also indicated their desire to enter the microbial oil market. · Some infant formulas now on the market outside the United States, including those marketed by certain of Martek’s customers, use DHA and/or ARA derived from other sources, such as fish oil or eggs or microbial. · In December 2005, Lonza Group LTD, a Swiss chemical and biotechnology group, acquired from Nutrinova Nutrition Specialties & Food Ingredients GmbH, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Celanese Corporation, Nutrinova’s business having as its product a DHA-rich microalgal oil. Since the acquisition, Lonza has actively marketed its DHA oil to the food and beverage and dietary supplement markets around the world. In addition, Lonza may be actively marketing its DHA oil for infant formula applications in certain markets. Nutrinova and Lonza are defendants in patent infringement actions involving our DHA patents that we have brough t in the United States, Germany and France. One of Nutrinova’s customers is also a defendant in these actions in Germany. These lawsuits are further described below in the risk factor regarding patent protection and in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” of Part I of this Form 10-K. · Monsanto/Solae are expecting to commercialize an inexpensive and sustainable vegetarian omega-3 for foods and beverages in 2012. This product is a soybean oil containing stearidonic acid (“SDA”). Monsanto/Solae are positioning SDA as a precursor to EPA, in addition to DHA, the other omega-3 found in fish oil. While a large amount of SDA soybean oil must be included in a food or beverage to achieve the intake level Monsanto has recommended for SDA, the oil should be inexpensive, claims to have stability and formulation advantages and may be able to make similar cardiovascular structure-function claims to fish oil. As another omega-3 on the market, SDA soy oil coul d be a threat to Martek’s food and beverage business. · GlaxoSmithKline is currently selling LOVAZA™, a prescription DHA/ EPA ethyl ester for treatment of hyperlipidemia. LOVAZA™ is a lipid-regulating agent which includes both EPA and DHA from fish oil. GlaxoSmithKline has filed an application with the FDA for an 24 Table of Contents indication that will expand the use of LOVAZA™ and is actively evaluating new indications. Other pharmaceutical companies offering other applications using omega-3 fatty acids may be expected. · Other companies, several with greater financial resources than ours, are developing plant-based DHA, other plant-based oils or, in the case of DuPont, an EPA product derived from yeast, which may compete with us, and other companies may be developing DHA from yeast. The competitive pressures we face in our branded consumer health products business could lead to reduced demand for our products which could negatively impact sales, gross profits and prospects. The market for consumer health products is highly competitive. Competition is based on a variety of factors, including price, quality and assortment of products, consumer service and marketing support. Our competition consists of many large and small companies. Many of our competitors have financial resources substantially greater than ours. These financial resources as well as other factors may allow them to lower the prices of their products or more aggressively market and advertise them which, at times, affects market share. Furthermore, due to price competition, we are not always able to fully pass on supply cost increases to our customers. Significant price reduction or broad-based advertising campaigns by one of our competitors or the inability to pass on future supply cost increases could have a material effect on the revenues and profitability of our branded consumer health produ cts business. In addition, there is a growing presence in our product markets of private label offerings. These private label products are often priced lower than branded competitors such as our products. If consumer trends and preferences shift toward the generally lower-priced private label products, our revenues could be materially adversely affected. Intellectual Property If we are unable to obtain or maintain patent protection or if our patents do not provide protection or we are unable to obtain comparable protection after patent expiration against competitive products, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our success is largely dependent on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. Our policy is to aggressively protect our proprietary technology through patents, where appropriate, and in other cases, through trade secrets. Additionally, in certain cases, we rely on the licenses of patents and technology of third parties. We hold approximately 100 U.S. patents, covering various aspects of our technology, which will expire on various dates between 2011 and 2027. Our core infant formula-related patents expire between 2011 and 2014. We also license from DSM certain patents that provide additional protection for our nutritional ingredient and expire between 2017 and 2024, and certain patent applications that could, if granted, provide added protection for our nutritional ingredien ts. We have been granted U.S. patents covering certain processes for producing DHA-containing oil that may be used in foods and beverages which expire between 2011 and 2027. We have filed, and intend to file, applications for additional patents covering both our products and processes as appropriate. While we currently have sole-source supply agreements with customers comprising nearly 75% of our current infant formula revenues, it is uncertain how much protection that our patents or those in-licensed from DSM expiring after 2011 will provide should these customers choose ingredients from our competitors once those agreements expire or terminate. Specifically, as discussed more fully in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” of Part I of this Form 10-K, our U.S. ARA patent expiring in 2014 is under a second reexamination challenge and has previously emerged from reexamination with narrower claims. The patent contains narrower product claims and process claims that, among othe r things, would provide patent protection to a production process that we believe: i) results in higher quality oil and higher ARA potency and ii) is cost efficient compared to other processes for producing ARA. When combined with our in-licensed patents from our ARA production partner DSM, we believe that it will be technologically difficult and less cost efficient for competitors to design around these claims. Nonetheless, it is uncertain how much protection they will provide. Furthermore, even if our customers continue to use our nutritional ingredients, direct competition could force us to reduce the price of our products, which could materially affect future revenues and product margins. Currently, we have over 400 issued patents and over 500 pending patent applications worldwide. There can be no assurance that (i) any patent applications filed by, assigned to or licensed to us will be granted; (ii) we will develop additional products that are patentable; (iii) any patents issued to or licensed by us will provide us with any competitive advantages or adequate protection for inventions; (iv) any patents issued to or licensed by us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others; (v) issued patents, or patents that may be issued, will provide protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable; (vi) products based upon issued patents will not infringe upon the patents of others; or (vii) we will be successful in securing arrangements with our customers after patent expirations that will provide economic protection similar to patents. Furthermore, patent law relating to the scope of claims in the fields of healthcare and biosciences is still evolving, and our patent rights are subject to this uncertainty. European, United States and Asian patent authorities have not adopted a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed for health and bioscience patents. Our products might infringe the patent rights of others, whether existing now or in the future. Similarly, the products of others could infringe our patent rights. The defense and prosecution of patent claims are both costly and time consuming, even if the outcome is ultimately in our favor. An adverse outcome in infringement actions by Martek against third parties could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage provided by the affected Martek patent rights. An adverse outcome in infringement actions by third parties against Martek could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties and/or req uire us to cease selling the affected products. In certain competitive geographic markets, we do not have patent protection and may be unable to obtain it. In other competitive markets, we may be unable to maintain (through patent expiration or otherwise) the patent protection for our nutritional ingredients currently afforded to us. A lack of patent protection would have a material adverse effect on our ability to gain a competitive advantage for our nutritional ingredients and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, especially on future sales of our nutritional ingredients. In particular, a lack of patent protection would permit our competitors to manufacture products that would be directly competitive with ours using similar or identical processes, and it is 25 Table of Contents possible that our current infant formula, supplement, or food and beverage customers, or those that may be under license in the future, may choose ingredients from our competitors if they choose to include the ingredients at all. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain the value of our brands or successfully protect our intellectual property or defend claims of infringement by others. There are a number of intellectual property proceedings pending against Martek or that Martek has pending against third parties. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” of Part I of this Form 10-K for further information. If any of these challenges or any other challenges to our patents that we do not currently consider material or that may arise in the future are successful and we are unable to secure customer arrangements upon patent revocation or expiration that would ensure continuity of our customers’ purchases from us or obtain comparable protection after patent expiration through other patents, we may experience decreases in the future sales of our nutritional ingredients or we may be forced to reduce the price of our products due to our competitors’ ability to produce similar products, both of which could cause decreases in future revenues as well as product margins. Sp ecifically, the revocation of our patent(s) could result in a decrease in revenues under our license agreements. Furthermore, it is our accounting policy to capitalize legal and related costs incurred in connection with patent applications and the defense of our patents. As of October 31, 2010, the net book value of our patent assets totaled $18.9 million, which includes approximately $3.2 million of costs related to our patent defenses in the Nutrinova/Lonza matters discussed above, which is being amortized over a weighted average remaining period of approximately four years. If, in the future, it is determined to be unlikely that our patents will be successfully defended in connection with the challenges described above or if it is concluded that certain of our patents will no longer provide an economic benefit to the Company, a write-off of the costs ascribed to the particular patent or patents would be required. The effect of such write-off could be material to our results of operations.< /font> We expect that in the future, as our nutritional ingredients continue to be commercialized, opposition to our patents and other intellectual property by our competitors will continue and most likely increase. We may incur substantial costs in the future protecting and defending our patents and other intellectual property rights and cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully defend our patents or that our competitors will not be able to “design around” our intellectual property. We also expect that in the future, third parties may allege that Martek infringes their intellectual property rights, which could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties and/or require us to cease selling the affected products. The success of our overall business, and particularly our branded consumer health products business, depends on the value of our consumer brands. These brand names are integral to the existing business and to the implementation of certain of our expansion strategies. Maintaining this brand value will depend largely on the success of our marketing efforts and our ability to provide a consistent and competitively differentiating health benefit to the end users of our products. Our brands could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve these objectives and our public image and reputation could be tarnished by negative publicity. Any of these events could negatively impact sales. Furthermore, trademarks are of material importance to the maintenance of our brand value. Much of our current nutritional ingredients revenue and substantially all of the current branded consumer health revenues are from prod ucts bearing proprietary brand names. Although our principal brand names are registered trademarks in the United States and certain foreign countries, there can be no assurance that the steps we take to protect our proprietary rights in our brand names will be adequate to prevent the misappropriation of these registered brand names in the United States or abroad. There can also be no assurance that we will be able to successfully protect our trademarks from infringement or otherwise. The loss or infringement of our trademarks could impair our brands, harm our reputation and materially adversely affect our financial results. General Business Risks Current economic and market conditions could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. The United States economy and the global economy are recovering from a severe recession. Due to factors such as uncertainties in consumer spending, a sustained regional and/or global economic downturn or slow recovery may reduce the demand for our nutritional ingredients. If demand for our nutritional ingredients declines, our revenue and profitability will be adversely affected. Furthermore, challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay for products they have purchased and may impair the ability of our vendors to supply us with items critical to the operation of our business. Any of these negative occurrences could adversely impact our operating results, financial condition or business in general. Our nutritional ingredients are very sensitive to oxidation and may not be very compatible with many liquid or dry foods that are currently on the market. If economical methods are not developed to successfully incorporate our nutritional ingredients into various food and beverage applications, we may never be able to gain large-scale entry of our nutritional ingredients into the food and beverage and nutritional supplements markets. Due to the sensitivity of our nutritional ingredients to oxidation, it is possible that our ingredients may change over time in such a way as to negatively affect the taste, smell and/or shelf stability of food and beverage applications. While we believe that the food and beverage market could be a large market for DHA supplementation with our DHA-S oil, the potential in this market would be limited if methods are not developed that allow incorporation of the oil into various foods and beverages with, among other things, acceptable flavor, odor and texture for the duration of the shelf life of the food and beverage products. Furthermore, while DHA-enriched food and beverage products with acceptable flavor and stability have been developed, risks exist for other finished food and beverage products, including cereals, shelf-stable beverages and certain types of nutritional bars for which DHA supplementation has not yet been successfully established. Even if we can successfully incorporate our ingredients into foods and 26 Table of Contents beverages, manufacturers of these products will have to develop methods to demonstrate feasibility in their production and distribution processes, including the packaging, storage and handling of such products. To facilitate this, our customers may require us to meet certain enhanced specifications and standards, our compliance with which cannot be assured. The timing and extent of our sales into the food and beverage market, therefore, are dependent not only on market demand, but also on customer formulation, production and distribution issues over which we have little or no control. If our non-infant formula nutritional ingredients customers do not introduce products containing our nutritional ingredients on a broad scale into the marketplace and consumers do not purchase such products, our sales to these markets will be limited. We are continuing to aggressively pursue further penetration of our DHA oils in the food and beverage, pregnancy and nursing, nutritional supplement and animal feed markets. To this end, we have signed license and supply agreements with several consumer products companies. Our success in penetrating this market, however, is dependent upon these customers introducing products that contain our nutritional ingredients into the marketplace and is further dependent upon the end consumer purchasing such products. Although some of our customers have launched products containing our ingredients, we cannot control whether our existing customers or potential new customers will continue to do so in the future, nor can we control whether our current or future customers will follow through with their planned launches of products containing our ingredients. Furthermore, as a broad scale product launch by our customers is likely dependent on actual or perceived consumer demand, which is inherently uncertain, we cannot control whether our customers will broadly distribute such DHA-enriched products or offer them beyond niche products or line extensions. To date, over 400 domestic and international companies have launched non-infant formula products that contain life’sDHA™. Of the products launched, some have failed, but most remain on the market. Despite this fact, industry averages, particularly food and beverage, would continue to suggest that many of these products will not ultimately be successful in the marketplace. As such, the introduction of a product by our customers does not guarantee that the product will remain on the market. If our non-infant formula customers do not introduce products containing our nutritional ingredients on a broad scale into the marketplace and end consumers do not purchase such products, our sales to the food and beverage, pr egnancy and nursing, nutritional supplement and animal feed markets would be limited. Because food and beverage pricing is very competitive, the premium that our nutritional ingredients adds to the cost of a food or beverage may never allow it to be priced at levels that will allow acceptance by consumers. Food and beverage pricing is very competitive and the market is very sensitive to product price changes. Moreover, these consumer sensitivities are further heightened during periods of economic uncertainty and downturn. Because the inclusion of our ingredients may add to the retail cost of these products, there is the risk that our potential customers in this market may not be able to sell supplemented products at prices that will allow them to gain market acceptance while, at the same time, remaining profitable. This may lead to our customers delaying or suspending product launches, or, at a minimum, may lead to price pressure on us. If our food and beverage customers delay product launches or we have to reduce our prices, our sales and/or profitability relative to the food and beverage market may be adversely impacted. Scientific Matters Experts differ in their opinions on the importance of DHA and/or ARA in infant formula and the levels of DHA and/or ARA required to achieve health benefits for babies. Some experts feel that they are not necessary ingredients for infant development. If clinical trials do not continue to yield positive results, certain favorable regulatory guidelines are not enacted or current favorable regulatory guidelines are amended, our future nutritional ingredients revenues in the infant formula market may be limited. Our continued success in the infant formula industry depends on sustained acceptance of our nutritional ingredients as necessary or beneficial ingredients in infant formulas. Notwithstanding existing clinical results that have demonstrated the beneficial effects of adding our nutritional ingredients to infant formula, some experts in the field of infant nutrition do not believe that our nutritional ingredients are necessary or that they provide any long-term beneficial effects. There have also been clinical studies where no beneficial effects have been found, possibly due to dose, duration or other factors. Experts generally recommend that mothers breastfeed rather than use infant formulas whether or not they contain our nutritional ingredients. Furthermore, breastfeeding advocacy groups challenge the benefits of infant formulas whether or not they contain our nutritional ingredients. Some experts believe that infant formulas without our ingredients or with greatly reduced levels are sufficient as infants can convert precursor fats into DHA and ARA as needed. In addition, some physicians are unimpressed by studies showing that infant formulas supplemented with our ingredients improve infants’ cognitive ability at early ages, suggesting that these results may not carry over to improved results later in life. Due to these differences in opinion, if clinical studies do not continue to yield positive results, our future revenues in the infant formula market may be limited. We are aware that in Asia as well as other international markets, certain infant formula manufacturers incorporate very low levels of DHA and/or ARA or, at times, no ARA in their supplemented infant formulas. Furthermore, in most countries, there are significant disparities amongst infant formula manufacturers as to the levels of DHA and ARA in their respective products. A failure by one or more regulatory authorities to enact guidelines for minimum levels of DHA and/or ARA for supplementation of infant formula products or the issuance of regulatory guidelines that establish targeted levels of DHA and/or ARA in infant formula that are lower than levels currently being used could result in lower potency formula products in specific affected countries, which could reduce the market opportunity for DHA and ARA ingredients. Any regulatory guidelines for infant formula that permit inclusion of DHA and ARA ingredients containing higher levels of EPA than covered in Martek’s patents could also reduce the market opportunity for Martek’s DHA and ARA ingredients in affected countries. While the Codex Alimentarius Infant Formula Standard and the European Union and Australia/ New Zealand regulations all allow the optional addition of DHA and ARA in infant formula, there are no existing regulations in any country requiring the addition of DHA and ARA. 27 Table of Contents If clinical trials do not continue to yield positive results on the benefits of DHA on cognitive function, cardiovascular health or other health applications, our future nutritional ingredients revenues may be limited in the food and beverage and the dietary supplement markets. Investigators at universities and at other research centers, such as NIH, have observed a relationship between low levels of DHA and a variety of health risks, including increased cardiovascular problems, Alzheimer’s disease and dementia and various other neurological and visual disorders. We are currently trying to establish what contribution, if any, supplementation with our ingredients will make in addressing a number of these problems. We believe that further clinical studies may be needed to validate the benefits of DHA supplementation in order to gain widespread entry into these markets. If clinical trials do not continue to yield positive results on the benefits of DHA or if these benefits are not considered significant by our targeted consumers, our future revenues in these markets may be limited. If clinical trials do not continue to yield positive results on the benefits of certain active ingredients included in our branded consumer health products, our revenues in this segment may be limited. Certain of our branded consumer health products contain active ingredients which are the subject of continuing clinical studies. These active ingredients include LGG (active ingredient in Culturelle®) as well as black cohosh and soy isoflavones (active ingredients in Estroven®). Although clinical data is not required to market dietary supplements, we believe that further clinical studies may be needed to validate the benefits of these consumer health products. If clinical trials do not continue to yield positive results or if these benefits are not considered significant by our targeted consumers, our future branded consumer health products revenues may be limited. If it is determined that large amounts of eicosapentaenoic acid (“EPA”) must accompany DHA in order to achieve optimal health benefits, we may never be able to gain large-scale entry of our nutritional ingredients into the food and beverage and dietary supplements markets. The rationale for supplementing foods and beverages with DHA is to, in part, improve overall cardiovascular system and/or central nervous system development and health. In September 2004, the FDA authorized a qualified health claim that may be utilized for food and beverage products containing both DHA and EPA relating to the reduction of risk of coronary heart disease. No minimum amounts for either DHA or EPA were established as prerequisites for the claim. Our DHA-S oil includes limited amounts of EPA and, therefore, products containing the DHA-S oil are eligible for use of the qualified health claim. Studies have been completed in the past to investigate the independent effects of DHA and EPA on health and additional studies may be ongoing or conducted in the future. If consensus of results from these studies establishes that relatively large amounts of EPA are required to be supplemented with DHA in order to achieve the optimal cardiovascular benefits, then the penetration of our nutritional ingredients into the food and beverage and dietary supplements markets may be limited. Production and Supply We maintain significant manufacturing capacity for our nutritional ingredients business and have incurred substantial costs in building it. If we are unable to increase our revenues from our nutritional ingredients produced at these facilities, we may continue to experience excess production capacity and we may be unable to recover these plant expansion costs, which could result in a write-down of certain production assets. In connection with our efforts to alleviate supply constraints with our infant formula customers and to prepare for other applications of our products, we expanded our internal production capacity and incurred significant expansion costs in doing so. As of October 31, 2010, the Company had $45.6 million of production assets that are currently idle. In June 2010, we commenced plans to restructure our Winchester, Kentucky manufacturing facilities. These plans included the completed transfer of certain manufacturing and distribution processes previously being performed in Winchester to our Kingstree, South Carolina site and the sale of a portion of our Winchester operations. This plant restructuring resulted in a non-cash asset impairment charge of $29.2 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. Even following the completion of this restructuring, our ability to recover the costs of our production assets may depend on increased volumes and revenue from the products manufactured at our facilities. There are no assurances that we will be able to achieve this goal. If it is estimated that we will not be able to ultimately recover the carrying amounts of the production assets, we would be required to record an asset impairment write-down. The effect of such write-down could be material. In addition, when experiencing excess capacity, we may be unable to produce the required quantities of oil cost-effectively, which could have a material adverse effect on our product margins and overall profitability. We have a single third-party supplier of our ARA for our nutritional ingredients business with whom we have a contractual relationship. If this supplier of our ARA is unable to supply us with our required amounts of ARA, our results of operations may be adversely affected. In July 2009, we entered into the First Amended and Restated ARA Alliance, Purchase, and Production Agreement (the “Restated Agreement”) with DSM. The Restated Agreement, which extends the original supply term through December 31, 2023, amended, consolidated and restated all existing agreements between the two parties governing the cross-licensing, purchase, supply and production of ARA, one of the Company’s nutritional ingredients that it sells to its infant formula customers. Because DSM is a third-party manufacturer, we have only limited control over the timing and level of its production volumes. If DSM fails to supply us with required amounts of ARA under our agreement, we would not be able to meet our customers’ demands unless we were able to utilize alternative sources of supply. In this regard, we would have to manufacture the ARA at our Kingstree plant, which m ay be more costly and would also reduce our DHA oil production capacity, or enter into other third-party manufacturer supply agreements, none of which may be achievable in a timely manner. As such, an inability of DSM to supply us with our required amounts of ARA may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 28 Table of Contents We rely on third-party manufacturers and certain key raw material and energy suppliers for the production of our product portfolio. In addition to DSM noted above, we rely on key third-party manufacturers to produce our products, particularly in the branded consumer health products segment. These third-party manufacturers and suppliers are not bound by fixed term commitments in our contracts with them, and they may discontinue production with little or no advance notice. Manufacturers also may experience problems with product quality or timeliness of product delivery. We rely on these manufacturers to comply with applicable current good manufacturing practice. The loss of a contract manufacturer may force us to shift production to different vendors and possibly cause manufacturing delays and disrupt our ability to fill customer orders. Additionally, should any of these manufacturers fail to meet our standards, we may face regulatory sanctions, additional product liability claims or customer complaints, any of which could harm our repu tation and our business. Disruption in supply by our third-party manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on the future sales and operations of the business. Raw material and energy costs are a significant operating expense of our production facilities and we are dependent on outside suppliers for nearly all of our key raw material and energy needs. The prices and availability of raw materials and energy can be volatile and are susceptible to rapid and substantial changes due to factors beyond our control such as changing economic conditions, weather conditions and supply and demand considerations. A substantial decrease in the availability of raw materials and/or energy from our suppliers, the loss of a key supplier or a substantial increase in the cost of our raw materials and/or energy could adversely impact our results of operations. We hold inventory and are committed to significant future inventory purchases. If our inventory on-hand or committed amounts cannot be sold, our results of operations and/or financial position may be adversely affected. As of October 31, 2010, we had total inventory on-hand of $94.0 million. Such inventory equates to approximately 5 months of future sales. In addition, the Restated Agreement with DSM establishes minimum ARA purchase quantities for calendar years 2010 and 2011. As of October 31, 2010, the value of the remaining calendar year 2010 and full calendar year 2011 minimum purchase requirements are approximately $22.5 million and $87.1 million, respectively. Furthermore, our ARA pricing from DSM from 2012 through 2014 is to an extent volume dependent. If our customers’ demand declines, we may have excess inventory on-hand, we may be forced to purchase excessive amounts of ARA in periods through 2011, or we could experience an increase to ARA unit costs after 2011. All such occurrences, through inventory write-downs or other, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and/or financial position. Government Regulation Our nutritional ingredients opportunity in the U.S. infant formula market , which represents approximately half of our total infant formula sales, may be limited by the renewal rate of supplemented formulas into the Women, Infants and Children program if the eligibility requirements for participating in the program are made more restrictive, if the amount of infant formula offered to participants is reduced, or if legislative changes result in the reduction or elimination of ingredients added to infant formula currently provided under the program. We estimate that of the total current annual U.S. market opportunity for sales of supplemented infant formula, approximately half represents Women, Infants and Children (“WIC”)-funded sales. WIC is a federal grant program that is state-administered for the benefit of low-income nutritionally at-risk women, infants and children. Most WIC state agencies provide only one brand of term infant formula to its participants, depending on which company has the infant formula contract in a particular state. Currently, WIC programs in 50 states and the District of Columbia offer term and certain specialty infant formula products supplemented with our nutritional ingredients. If supplemented formulas are removed from WIC programs that previously adopted them, eligibility requirements for participating in WIC become more restrictive and/or participation decreases, or if any of our customers fail to renew, in a timely fashion, their contract awards from WIC agencies for the adoption of a supplemented infant formula, then our future revenues from supplemented infant formula sales in the U.S. would be limited. Further, in December 2007, the USDA, the federal agency which governs WIC, issued an interim final rule which included a reduction in the amount of infant formula to be offered through WIC. State WIC agencies had until October 2009 to implement this change and the interim rule comment period ended in February 2010. The USDA is currently reviewing and analyzing comments and expects to promulgate a final rule in early 2011. If there is a permanent reduction in the amount of infant formula offered through WIC, then our future infant formula revenues could be materially adversely affected. In addition, from time to time, certain advocacy groups may seek to influence legislators to enact legislation that would have the potential to impact the additi on of certain ingredients, including DHA and ARA, to infant formula supplied under the WIC program. If such legislation were to be enacted, potential outcomes include, but are not limited to, the commissioning of studies to assess the cost benefit justification and/or efficacy rationale for the inclusion of DHA and ARA in infant formula sold under the program, eliminating these ingredients from infant formula sold under the WIC program, or maintaining the status quo for previously approved ingredients. If certain of these possible outcomes were to occur, sales of our oils for use in WIC program infant formula and potentially outside of the WIC program would be adversely impacted. If our nutritional ingredients are unable to be used in organic food and beverage products, the opportunity for sales of our nutritional ingredients into the food and beverage market will be limited to non-organic products. The Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 required the U.S. Department of Agriculture (“USDA”) to develop national standards for organically produced agricultural products to assure consumers that agricultural products marketed as organic meet consistent, uniform standards. Accordingly, the USDA has put in place a set of national standards (the “National Organic Program” or “NOP”) that food labeled “organic” must meet, whether it is grown in the United States or imported from other countries. Under the NOP regulations, only a USDA-accredited certifying agent may make the determination that a food product may be labeled as organic. Martek is not a USDA-accredited certifying agent. Some of our customers have obtained organic certification from USDA-accredited certifying agents and have received authorization to use the USDA’s organic seal on certain products that contain our DHA and ARA-containing nutritional ingredients. In some instances, such products have 29 Table of Contents been further reviewed and the authorization to use Martek’s nutritional ingredients has been explicitly ratified by the USDA. Certain advocacy groups, however, have challenged these authorizations and ratifications. In April 2010, the USDA elected to revise its prior interpretations and ratifications of the specific recommendations and standards which allowed for the use of nutrients (including Martek’s DHA and ARA-containing nutritional ingredients) in organic products. Under the USDA’s revised interpretation, it has asserted that the regulations do not permit the use of any nutrient (including DHA and ARA) in certified organic products unless the nutrient is considered either a vitamin or mineral, or the nutrient has been specifically reviewed and recommended for inclusion by the National Organic Standards Board (“NOSB”). The USDA has indicated that it will issue draft guidance to formalize its revised interpretation later this year. Following a public comment period, it will likely take between three and six months for the USDA’s new guidance to be finalized. Thereafter, we anticipate a period of transition for companies currently using previously approved nutrients (including DHA and ARA) to petition the NOSB to have the nutrients reviewed, recommended and listed as acceptable for use in certified organic products, to make appropriate label changes, or to remove the nutrients from products previously certified organic. Because the NOP regulations are subject to change and interpretation, there can be no guarantee that our nutritional ingredients will continue to be acceptable for use in organic products. Organic food sales accounted for approximately 3.7% of the total U.S. food sales in 2009; sales of Martek’s nutritional ingredients for use in organic food products were approximately $5 million during fiscal 2010. However, we believe that interest from food manufacturers in producing and selling organic products is expanding, and we have emphasized sales in this market in our non-infant formula business. If our nutritional ingredients are ineligible for inclusion in products that bear the USDA organic seal, our sales opportunity in the food and beverage market may be adversely impacted. If we are unable to gain or maintain broad regulatory approvals for the incorporation of our nutritional ingredients into foods and beverages worldwide, our future revenues in the food and beverage market may be limited. To date, we have received limited approval in several countries for the incorporation of our DHA-S oil into foods and beverages. Our DHA-S oil has received regulatory approval or is accepted for inclusion in foods and beverages, with certain country-specific limitations, in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, the European Community, Israel, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, the Philippines, Singapore, South Africa, Taiwan and the United States. With respect to approvals in Europe and Israel, the use of our DHA-S is authorized as an ingredient in certain foods such as certain dairy products, including cheese and yogurt, spreads and dressings, breakfast cereals, food supplements and dietary foods for special medical purposes. In July 2009, the Standing Committee of the European Commission and the 27 Member States approved the expanded use of our DHA-S algal oil in bevera ges, bakery products and nutrition bars and official EU approval was attained in October 2009. Similar expanded approval was obtained from the Israeli Ministry of Health in September 2010. In parts of the world not mentioned above, laws and regulations with respect to the addition of our nutritional ingredients into foods and beverages are diverse and our ability to gain or maintain the necessary regulatory approvals is unclear. If we are unable to gain or maintain broad approvals for the incorporation of our nutritional ingredients into foods and beverages worldwide, our future revenues in the food and beverage market may be limited. If the FDA finalizes its proposed rule to prohibit nutrient content claims for DHA and EPA, our penetration of the food and beverage and dietary supplements markets may be limited. In November 2007, the FDA issued a proposed rule that would prohibit the nutrient content claims for DHA and EPA that had been authorized in three previously submitted Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act notifications. The FDA is proposing to prohibit the DHA and EPA nutrient content claims because the agency does not believe they are based on an authoritative statement. The FDA specifically acknowledged that it did not conduct an independent review of the scientific evidence when evaluating these nutrient content claims. In addition to other stakeholders, we have submitted comments in opposition to this proposed rule. It is unclear when the FDA will issue a final rule. In the event the proposed rule becomes final, the potential health benefits of consuming DHA and EPA still may be communicated through the use of a qualified health claim and/or structure/functio n claims that are made consistent with applicable FDA requirements and/or quantitative claims. Nonetheless, our penetration of the food and beverage and dietary supplements markets may be limited if this proposed rule is implemented. If the FDA narrowly interprets certain sections of the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, such an interpretation could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In July 2008, the FDA issued a notice and request for comments on section 912 of the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, titled “Prohibition Against Food to Which Drugs or Biological Products Have Been Added.” This section of the Act prohibits the use in food of certain authorized drugs and biological substances, including certain such substances that have been the subject of substantial clinical investigations that have been made public. The prohibition applies unless companies first marketed the substance in food prior to the FDA authorization and before the substantial clinical investigations had been instituted. We have submitted comments to the FDA in which we assert that the implementation of section 912 should be based on the intended purpose of the clinical investigation rather than on the mere existence of such an investigation. A more restrictive interp retation of the implementation of section 912 could not only discourage companies from sponsoring clinical research for new food ingredients, but could also bar the continued marketing of some food ingredients and dietary supplements already on the market. Such an interpretation by the FDA could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we or our customers fail to secure authorized health claims regarding our nutritional ingredients within the European Union, future revenues from sales within the European Union could be adversely affected. In December 2006, the European Parliament and Council issued regulation EC No 1924/2006 on “nutrition and health claims made on foods”. Implementation of this regulation was scheduled for January 2010, although the review of claim applications under the regulation is still underway. Until the implementation date, which now appears will be postponed, claims that have been in use in Member States prior to January 2006 may 30 Table of Contents continue to be used. After the implementation date, only claims listed in the regulation and those that have received European Union (“EU”) authorization shall be permitted on foods and dietary supplements within the EU. Our failure, and that of our customers, to secure authorized claims for our DHA and ARA could adversely impact future market penetration of products containing our DHA and ARA in the EU. In addition, market penetration could be limited for a period of 5 years if claim approvals are given proprietary status for a particular customer’s or competitor’s product. As of October 2010, positive opinions on three health claim applications have been received from the European Food Safety Authority (“EFSA”) for DHA. However, as part of the process, Martek must additionally obtain full EU authorization of these opinions before the claims are offici al. Changes to regulatory requirements to which our business is subject could have a material effect on our results of operations. Our products and our manufacturing and research activities are subject to varying degrees of regulation and various regulatory authorities in the United States and abroad. These regulatory authorities include, but are not limited to, the Food and Drug Administration and Federal Trade Commission in the United States as well as agencies and entities providing similar functions throughout the rest of the world. The various regulatory requirements are complex and constantly changing, sometimes quite unpredictably, due, in part, to changes in agendas of political, business and environmental groups as well as government priorities. We may be required to incur substantial costs to comply with current or future laws and regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, and our operations, business or financial condition could be adversely affected by such future requirements or int erpretations of existing requirements. Our business would be harmed if we fail to comply with applicable good manufacturing practices as required by the FDA. In connection with the manufacture of most of our products, we are required to adhere to applicable current good manufacturing practice (“cGMP”) regulations as required by the FDA and our contractual obligations. These cGMP regulations specify production and process controls, component and product testing standards, quality control and quality assurance requirements, and records and other documentation controls. As a manufacturer of DHA and ARA that are marketed as dietary supplements and used as ingredients in infant formulas and foods and beverages sold in the United States, we are subject to cGMP and various other requirements applicable to such products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to manufacture our nutritional ingredients in accordance with relevant food and beverage, dietary supplement and infant formula requirements for commercial use. Ongoing compliance with cGM P and other applicable regulatory requirements is monitored through periodic inspections by state and federal agencies, including the FDA and comparable agencies in other countries. A determination that we are in violation of such cGMP and other regulations could lead to an interruption of our production output and the imposition of civil penalties, including fines, contractual damages, product recalls or product seizures, and, in the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions. Our nutritional ingredients manufacturing process involves the handling of hazardous materials and emission of regulated pollutants. If we fail to properly handle these hazardous materials and/or emissions, substantial costs and harm to our business could result. In connection with our research and development and manufacturing activities, we utilize some hazardous materials and emit regulated pollutants. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling, discharge, management and disposal of hazardous materials and the emission of regulated pollutants. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be significant, and our ability to comply with certain emission requirements is somewhat dependent upon raw materials produced by others, over whom we have little or no control. Moreover, we could be subject to loss of our permits, government fines or penalties and/or other adverse governmental or private party action if our hazardous materials or waste products are used, stored, handled, emitted or otherwise managed in violation of the law or any permit. In addition, we could be subject to liability if h azardous materials or waste are released into the environment. A substantial fine, penalty or judgment, the payment of significant environmental remediation costs or natural resource damages or property or personal injury damages, or the loss of a permit or other authorization to operate or engage in our ordinary course of business could result in material, unanticipated expenses and the possible inability to satisfy customer demand for our nutritional ingredients. Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable federal and state regulations. Our business is subject to extensive federal and state regulation. Current products and products in development cannot be sold if we or our customers do not obtain or maintain regulatory approvals. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program, we cannot assure you that we or our employees are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable federal and state regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, a range of actions could result, materially affecting our business and financial condition, including, but not limited to, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, including withdrawal of our products from the market, significant fines, or other sanctions. Our business exposes us to liabilities related to allegedly unsubstantiated product efficacy claims. The Federal Trade Commission regulates certain aspects of the advertising and marketing of our products and the products of our customers that incorporate our nutritional ingredients. Under the Federal Trade Commission Act, a company must be able to substantiate both the express and implied claims that are conveyed by an advertisement. The food and supplements industries are under increasing scrutiny by regulators, attorneys general, consumer groups, the class action bar, and others for claims appearing on product labels, websites, advertisements, and other product promotions. These actions are based on consumer protection laws and typically allege that a company lacks data that can substantiate the claims made in advertising and marketing efforts. Actions against certain food, beverage and supplement companies are occurring, and product claims being made by certa in food, beverage and supplement companies, some of which may relate to the benefits attributable to our products, are being examined more closely. In the future, we may be subject to regulatory actions and/or litigation relating to these claims, which could adversely affect our business. 31 Table of Contents Safety and Quality Concerns with safety and quality could cause customers to avoid our products. Recent adverse publicity about the safety of certain foods due to the actual or potential existence of certain compounds therein has heightened the sensitivities of many consumers. These safety and quality issues, whether real or perceived, may discourage customers from buying products containing or perceived to contain the compounds which give rise to such concerns. We could be adversely affected if our customers or the ultimate consumers of our products lose confidence in the safety and quality of our products. Any negative change in customer perceptions about the safety and quality of our products could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims and recalls, which could adversely impact our financial condition and performance. Our development, manufacture and marketing of products involve an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls, product seizures and related adverse publicity. In addition, with respect to our nutritional ingredients business, as only a small amount of our nutritional ingredients resides in our customers’ end product, a recall of our nutritional ingredients could impact a much larger recall of our customers’ end products. Recalls of our products, including recalls of customer products containing our nutritional ingredients, could result from such things as contamination, spoilage, product misbranding or product tampering, whether real or perceived. Although we currently maintain product liability and recall insurance for all our products in the amounts we believe to be commercially reasonable, we cannot be certain that the coverage limits of our insurance policies or those of our strategic partners will be adequate. Insurance coverage for such risks is expensive and difficult to obtain, and we may be unable to obtain coverage in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient insurance at an acceptable cost, a product liability claim or recall could adversely impact our financial condition. Furthermore, if a product liability claim is made against us or if there is a product recall, whether fully covered by insurance or not, our future sales could be adversely impacted due to, among other things, negative publicity and the resulting inability to effectively market our products. Mergers and Acquisitions The transactions contemplated by our Merger Agreement with Koninklijke DSM N.V. (“Parent”) may be delayed or may not be consummated. There are a number of risks and uncertainties relating to the proposed acquisition of the Company by Parent. The risks and uncertainties include the possibility that the transaction may be delayed or may not be completed as a result of failure of the tender offer to meet the minimum conditions thereof, the failure to obtain or any delay in obtaining necessary regulatory clearances, or the failure to satisfy other closing conditions. Any delay in completing, or failure to complete, the acquisition could have a negative impact on the Company’s business, its stock price, and its relationships with customers or employees. In addition, under certain circumstances, if the transaction is terminated, the Company may be required to pay a $38 million termination fee to Parent. During the pendency of the transaction, we also run the risk of loss of key employees, disruption in normal business relationships, and substantial distraction of management attention. We may fail to realize the anticipated strategic and sales synergies expected from the Amerifit acquisition, which could adversely affect our operating results and the market price of our common stock. The success of the Amerifit acquisition will depend, in significant part, on our ability to successfully integrate Amerifit into our operations, and realize the anticipated benefits and synergies to be derived from the combination of the two businesses. We believe that Amerifit’s product portfolio and sales and marketing infrastructure will accelerate the execution of our corporate and product development strategy and provide opportunities to significantly improve the return on our product development investment. However, an inability by us to develop future products or to utilize the existing Amerifit sales and marketing infrastructure for the commercialization of such future products may cause actual operating, strategic and sales synergies to be lower than we expect or to take longer to achieve than anticipated, if achieved at all. In addition, if we are not able to adequately address the integration ch allenges above, we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction. If we are not able to achieve these objectives, the value of Martek’s common stock may be adversely affected. The Amerifit acquisition may not be accretive and may cause dilution to our earnings per share, which may harm the market price of our common stock. We currently anticipate that the acquisition of Amerifit will continue to be accretive to earnings per share beyond fiscal 2010. This expectation is based on estimates which may materially change. We could fail to realize all of the benefits of the transaction that underlie our financial model and expectations as to profitability. All of these factors could cause dilution to our earnings per share or decrease or frustrate the expected continued accretive effect of the transaction and cause a decrease in the price of our common stock. We must be successful in the retention, motivation and recruitment of key executives and employees following the Amerifit acquisition. We must continue to retain, motivate and recruit executives and other key employees to continue to realize the benefits of the Amerifit acquisition and to grow our business as a whole. Experienced employees are in high demand and competition for their talents can be intense. Employees of Martek and employees of Amerifit that are now part of the Martek corporate organization may experience uncertainty, real or perceived, about their future roles at Martek following the Amerifit acquisition. These potential distractions may adversely affect the ability to retain, motivate and recruit executives and other key employees and keep them focused on corporate strategies and objectives. The failure to attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees following completion of the transaction could have a negative impact on our business. Our branded consumer health products business within Amerifit has a material amount of value associated with customer relationships, goodwill and trademarks, which, if they become impaired would result in a reduction to our earnings. For the acquisition of Amerifit, we paid total cash consideration of approximately $218 million. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total purchase price was allocated to Amerifit’s net tangible and intangible assets based on their estimated fair values at the February 12, 2010 acquisition date. The preliminary allocation of the purchase price resulted in value being assigned to customer relationships, goodwill and trademarks of $91.4 million, $98.8 million and $45.4 million, respectively. The total of such valuation exceeds cash consideration paid as a result of a negative tangible net worth upon acquisition. We are amortizing the value of Amerifit’s customer relationships using an accelerated method over a period of 18 years. Both the goodwill and trademarks are intangibles with indefinite useful lives and will not be amortized. Current accounting standards require that 32 Table of Contents intangible assets with indefinite lives be evaluated for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if indicators of impairment are present. Potential indicators of impairment may include declines in the profitability or estimated cash flows of the branded consumer health products business or potential changes in market valuations for similar assets. If fair value is determined to be less than carrying value, then we may recognize an impairment charge. These charges may have a material impact on our operating results. The Amerifit acquisition may expose us to significant unanticipated liabilities that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our purchase of Amerifit may expose us to significant unanticipated liabilities. We may incur unforeseen liabilities relating to the operation of the newly-acquired business. The liabilities may include employment, retirement or severance-related obligations under applicable law or other benefits arrangements, legal claims, warranty or similar liabilities to customers or vendors, and claims by or amounts owed to suppliers. The incurrence of unforeseen or unanticipated liabilities, should they be significant and in excess of the $25 million, subject to annual reductions over the next three years, placed in an escrow to secure certain indemnification obligations of Amerifit’s previous equity holders, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we pursue and ultimately consummate additional business combinations, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of such mergers. We have an ongoing process of evaluating potential merger and acquisition candidates that will support our future growth and expand our product offerings. To be successful after any consummated merger, we would need to combine and integrate the separate organizations and operations of the participating companies. The combination of two or more independent companies is a complex, costly, and time-consuming process. As a result, we would need to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the diverse business practices and operations of the two companies. We may encounter difficulties that could harm the combined businesses, adversely affect our financial condition, and cause our stock price to decline. Furthermore, even if the operations of the organizations are integrated successfully, the combined company may not realize the expected benefits of the transaction, including the synergies , cost savings, or sales or growth opportunities. Our management certification and auditor attestation regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2010 excluded the operations of Amerifit. If we are not able to integrate Amerifit’s operations into our internal control over financial reporting, our internal control over financial reporting will not be effective. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to furnish a management certification and auditor attestation regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As a public company, we are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a “material weakness” or changes in internal control that materially affect, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, internal control over financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the registrant’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Complying with Section 404 is time consuming and costly. Prior to its acquisition by us, Amerifit was a private company and was not required to comply with Section 404. The integration of Amerifit’s operations into our internal control over financial reporting will require additional time and resources from our management and other personnel and may increase our compliance costs. Our management certification and auditor attestation regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2010 excluded the operations of Amerifit. The aggregated total assets and total operating revenues of Amerifit represent approximately 32% and 14%, respectively, of our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended October 31, 2010. Failure to comply with Section 404, including a delay in or failure to successfully integrate Amerifit’s operations into our internal control over financial reporting, or the report by us of a material weakness may cause investors to lose confidence in our consolidated financial statements and the trading price of our common stock may decline. If we fail to remedy any material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate, our access to the capital markets may be restricted and the trading price of our common stock may decline. Treasury and Financial Markets We may need additional capital in the future to continue our research and development efforts, to conduct product testing, including preclinical and clinical trials, and to market our products. We may also need additional capital to expand our production capacity if market demand for our products continues to grow. As of October 31, 2010, we had approximately $63.7 million in cash and cash equivalents as well as $100 million of our revolving credit facility available to meet future capital requirements. We may require additional capital to fund, among other things, our research and development, product testing, product acquisition and marketing activities. Our ability to meet future demand for our products may require even further expansion of our production capability for our nutritional ingredients, which would also require additional capital. The timing and extent of our additional cash needs will primarily depend on: (a) the degree to which we can sustain and expand our DHA and ARA sales for inclusion in infant formula; (b) the timing and extent of introductions of new branded consumer health products; and (c) our ability to generate profits from the sales of our nutritional ingredients. 33 Table of Contents To continue to fund our growth, we may pursue various sources of funding, which may include debt financing, equity issuances, asset-based borrowing, lease financing, and collaborative arrangements with partners. In January 2010, we entered into a Credit Agreement, subsequently amended in March 2010 (the “Credit Agreement”), that included a $75 million term loan (the “Term Loan”) which has been repaid in full in fiscal 2010, and a $100 million secured revolving credit facility (the “Revolver”). This debt financing arrangement requires us to comply with financial covenants, which we may not be able to meet if demand for our products was to significantly decline, if there was a significant change in our financial position or if our cash needs are greater than we currently anticipate. Additionally, funding from other sources may not be available, if needed, due to finan cial covenant compliance or credit facility expiration, or may not be available on terms that would be commercially acceptable or permit us to continue the planned commercialization of our products or expansion of our production capacity. Furthermore, future equity issuances may be dilutive to our existing shareholders. If we obtain funds through collaborative or strategic partners, these partners may require us to give them technology or product rights, including patent rights, that could ultimately diminish our value. If we cannot secure adequate funding, we may need to scale back our research, development, manufacturing, and commercialization programs, which may have a material adverse effect on our future business. The market price of our common stock may experience a high level of volatility due to factors such as the volatility in the market for biotechnology stocks generally, and the short-term effect of a number of possible events. We are a public biosciences company. As frequently occurs among these companies, the market price for our common stock may experience a high level of volatility. During the fifty-two week period ending October 31, 2010, our common stock traded between $25.03 and $17.09 per share. During the fifty-two week period ending October 31, 2009, our common stock traded between $31.60 and $15.36 per share. The following are examples of items that may significantly impact the market price for our common stock: · developments affecting the pending transactions under our Agreement and Plan of Merger with Koninklijke DSM N.V.; · announcements of technical innovations, new commercial products and product launches by us or our competitors; · announcements of use of or intention to use competitors’ DHA and/or ARA products by our customers; · acquisitions by us or our competitors; · arrangements or strategic partnerships by us or our competitors; · announcements of license agreements, acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; · announcements of sales by us or our competitors; · announcements of results of clinical trials by us, our competitors or others; · patent or other intellectual property achievements or adverse developments; · quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and results of operations; · failure to enter into favorable third-party manufacturing agreements; · regulatory decisions (approvals or disapprovals) or changes concerning our products and our competitors’ products; · events related to threatened, new or existing litigation, or the results thereof; · changes in our estimates of financial performance or changes in recommendations by securities analysts; and · general market conditions as a whole and, in particular, those for bioscience companies. Because we may experience a high level of volatility in our common stock, you should not invest in our stock unless you are prepared to absorb a significant loss of your capital. At any given time, you may not be able to sell your shares at a price that you think is acceptable. The market liquidity for our stock is relatively low. As of October 31, 2010, we had 33,501,248 shares of common stock outstanding. The average daily trading volume in our common stock during the fifty-two week period ending October 31, 2010 was approximately 300,000 shares. Although a more active trading market may develop in the future, the limited market liquidity for our stock may affect your ability to sell at a price that is satisfactory to you. If significant shares eligible for future sales are sold, the result may depress our stock price by increasing the supply of our shares in the market at a time when demand may be limited. As of October 31, 2010, we had 33,501,248 shares of common stock and approximately 800,000 unvested restricted stock units outstanding, as well as stock options outstanding to purchase an aggregate of approximately 2.1 million shares of common stock. Of the stock options, substantially all were exercisable at December 21, 2010, and approximately 800,000 had exercise prices that were below the market price on this date. The restricted stock units will vest and common stock will issue at various dates through 2015. To the extent that these options for our common stock are exercised, restricted stock units vest or we issue additional shares to raise capital, the increase in the number of our outstanding shares of common stock may adversely affect the price for our common stock. This could hurt our ability to raise capital through the future sale of equity securities. If we require addit ional outside sources of capital to finance, among other things, our research and development, product testing and the manufacturing and marketing of our products, we may need to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates could reduce profitability. In July 2009, we entered into the Restated Agreement with DSM. As part of the agreement, it was established that 25% of the ARA we buy from DSM will be denominated in euros. As such, consistent with our payment arrangements with DSM prior to the execution of the Restated Agreement, 34 Table of Contents we are exposed to risks related to changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the euro. Fluctuations in the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate can adversely impact our cost of ARA oil and our gross margins. To reduce the risk of unpredictable changes in these costs, we may, from time to time, enter into forward foreign exchange contracts. However, due to the variability of timing and amount of payments under these contracts, the forward foreign exchange contracts may not mitigate the potential adverse impact on our financial results and, in fact, may themselves cause financial harm. Furthermore, these contracts have inherent levels of counterparty risk over which we have no control. We have entered into foreign currency forward contracts with outstanding notional values aggregating approximately 9.4 million euros at October 31, 2010. We estimate that a 5% change in the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate would impact gross margins of our infant formula products by less than 0.5%. 35 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 