risk factors set forth herein, as well as other information we include in this report and the additional information in the other reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC” or the “Commission”). If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. A substantial portion of our nutritional oil products sales is made to five of our existing customers under agreements with no minimum purchase requirements. If demand by these customers for our nutritional oil products decreases, our revenues may materially decline. We rely on a substantial portion of our product sales to five of our existing customers. Approximately 80% of our product sales revenue during the year ended October 31, 2008 was generated by sales of DHA and ARA to five customers: Mead Johnson Nutritionals, Abbott Laboratories, Nestle, Wyeth and Danone (formerly Numico). We cannot guarantee that these customers will continue to demand our nutritional products at current or predictable levels. None of our license agreements requires our licensees to purchase any minimum amount of products from us now or in the future, and certain of our license agreements can be terminated within short periods and also allow our licensees to manufacture our products themselves or purchase nutritional oils from other sources. We have limited visibility into our customers’ future actual level of demand, notwithstanding our view of consumer demand. If demand by any of our significant customers for our nutritional products decreases, we may experience a material decline in our revenues. Furthermore, if purchasing patterns by our significant customers continue to be uneven or inconsistent, we will likely experience fluctuations in our quarter-to-quarter revenues. In addition, if these customers attempt to utilize their purchasing power in order to receive price reductions on our products, we may be unable to maintain prices of our oils at current levels, which could materially affect future revenues and product margins. Our major customers are part of either the pharmaceutical or food and beverage industries. Mergers and acquisitions are prevalent in both industries. If one of our major customers or divisions thereof are acquired, as there are no minimum purchase requirements in our license agreements with them, there is no guarantee that the acquirer will continue purchasing our oils at current levels or continue selling infant formula at all. An acquisition of one of our major customers could have a material effect on future revenues. Our major customers also employ differing strategies with respect to the timing of their inventory and raw material purchases. To the extent that these strategies change (i.e., further advancements to a “just-in-time” procurement process), our revenues in the quarter of such change could be materially affected by this modification in customer ordering patterns. In addition, our major customers use varying inclusion levels of DHA and ARA in their infant formulas. If significant changes in their market shares occur, we could experience material changes in our infant formula revenues. We are aware of several products that are currently available, and products under development, that may present a serious competitive threat to our products. If we are unable to maintain a competitive differentiation from these products, our revenues may be adversely affected. Our continued success and growth depends upon achieving and maintaining a superior competitive position in the infant formula, supplement and food and beverage product markets. Potential competitors include companies such as BASF AG, DSM, Cargill Inc., Suntory Limited, Archer Daniels Midland Company, Lonza Group LTD, Nagase & Co. Ltd., Ocean Nutrition and Monsanto. Many of these companies have substantially greater research and development capabilities, marketing, financial and managerial resources and experience in the industry. Some of these competitors are currently offering competing sources of DHA and/or ARA for use in the food and beverage and dietary supplement markets and for use in infant formula. If a competitor develops a better or less expensive product or technology, our competitors’ products gain widespread acceptance, our patents expire, or we lose our patents, the sales of our products may be materially adversely affected and our technologies rendered obsolete. In addition to the Lonza and Nutrinova matters described below, we are aware that other sources of DHA and ARA are or may be available, any of which could represent a competitive threat that could seriously harm our product sales. Specifically: • Abbott Nutritionals (then known as the Ross Products Division of Abbott Laboratories), a significant Martek licensee and customer, filed a generally recognized as safe notification on January 2, 2002 seeking Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) concurrence that its tuna oil source of DHA and its fungal source of ARA, as manufactured by Suntory Limited, are generally recognized as safe when used as ingredients in infant formula. In April 2006, the FDA notified Ross Products that it had no questions at that time regarding Ross’ conclusion that DHA-rich oil from tuna and ARA-rich oil from Mortierella alpina are safe as sources of DHA and ARA in term and post-discharge preterm infant formulas. While Abbott Nutritionals has not announced any introduction of such oils into infant formula in the U.S. and has agreed to purchase its total needs for DHA and ARA from us through at least 2011, and while we are not aware of any plans by our other licensees to do so, the GRAS notification removes a significant regulatory hurdle to the introduction of competitive products in the U.S. • GlaxoSmithKline is currently selling LOVAZA™, a prescription DHA/ EPA ethyl ester for treatment of hyperlipidemia. LOVAZA™ is a lipid-regulating agent which includes both EPA and DHA from fish oil. GlaxoSmithKline has recently filed an application with the FDA for an indication that will expand the use of LOVAZA™. Other pharmaceutical companies offering other applications using omega-3 fatty acids may be expected. • Suntory Limited, Cargill Inc., through a joint venture with a company in China, and other independent Chinese manufacturers are producing or attempting to produce and distributing a fungal source of ARA. In addition, we are aware that there may be manufacturers in China and India attempting to produce an algal source of DHA, but we are uncertain of the overall status and commercial potential of these efforts. • Some infant formulas now on the market outside the United States, including those marketed by certain of Martek’s licensees, use DHA derived from other sources, such as fish oil or eggs. 19 Table of Contents • In December 2005, Lonza Group LTD, a Swiss chemical and biotechnology group, acquired from Nutrinova Nutrition Specialties & Food Ingredients GmbH, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Celanese Corporation, Nutrinova’s business having as its product a DHA-rich microalgal oil. Since the acquisition, Lonza has actively marketed its DHA oil to the food, beverage and dietary supplement market in Europe and Asia, and was actively marketing in the United States. Nutrinova and Lonza are defendants in patent infringement actions involving our DHA patents that we have brought in both the United States and Germany. One of Nutrinova’s customers is also a defendant in these actions in Germany. These lawsuits are further described below in the risk factor regarding patent protection and in Item 3 of Part I of this Form 10-K, “Legal Proceedings.” • Other companies, several with greater financial resources than ours, are developing plant-based DHA or other plant-based oils that may compete with us and other companies may be developing chemically synthesized DHA. • Several large companies, including BASF AG, DSM and Ocean Nutrition, and a number of smaller companies, manufacture microencapsulated fish oil products. Although microencapsulation of the oil resolves many of the odor, stability and taste issues found with fish oil, a microencapsulated product currently is more costly than regular fish oil. Fish oil-based products (i) are used as a DHA source by some infant formula companies, (ii) currently dominate the adult DHA supplement market and (iii) are included in certain foods on the market in various parts of the world. Because fish oil is generally less costly than our DHA oil, even when microencapsulated, and continues to improve in quality and gain general market acceptance, fish oil presents a substantial competitive threat. Experts differ in their opinions on the importance of DHA and/or ARA in infant formula and the levels of DHA and/or ARA required to achieve health benefits for babies. Some experts feel that they are not necessary ingredients for infant development. If clinical trials do not continue to yield positive results, certain favorable regulatory guidelines are not enacted or current favorable regulatory guidelines are amended, our future revenues in the infant formula market may be limited. Our continued success in the infant formula industry depends on sustained acceptance of our nutritional oils as necessary or beneficial ingredients in infant formulas. Notwithstanding existing clinical results that have demonstrated the beneficial effects of adding our nutritional oils to infant formula, some experts in the field of infant nutrition do not believe that our nutritional oils are necessary or that they provide any long-term beneficial effects. There have also been clinical studies where no beneficial effects have been found, possibly due to dose, duration or other factors. Experts generally recommend that mothers breastfeed rather than use infant formulas whether or not they contain our nutritional oils. Furthermore, breastfeeding advocacy groups challenge the benefits of infant formulas whether or not they contain our nutritional oils. Some experts believe that infant formulas without our oils or with greatly reduced levels are sufficient as infants can convert precursor fats into DHA and ARA as needed. In addition, some physicians are unimpressed by studies showing that infant formulas supplemented with our oils improve infants’ cognitive ability at early ages, suggesting that these results may not carry over to improved results later in life. Due to these differences in opinion, if clinical studies do not continue to yield positive results, our future revenues in the infant formula market may be limited. We are aware that in Asia as well as other international markets, certain infant formula manufacturers incorporate very low levels or, at times, no ARA in their supplemented infant formulas. Furthermore, in most countries, there are significant disparities amongst infant formula manufacturers as to the levels of DHA and ARA in their respective products. A failure by one or more regulatory authorities to enact guidelines for minimum levels of DHA and/or ARA for supplementation of infant formula products or the issuance of regulatory guidelines that establish targeted levels of DHA and/or ARA in infant formula that are lower than levels currently being used could result in lower-potency formula products in specific affected countries, which could reduce the market opportunity for DHA and ARA ingredients. Any regulatory guidelines for infant formula that permit inclusion of DHA and ARA ingredients containing higher levels of EPA than covered in Martek’s patents could also reduce the market opportunity for Martek’s DHA and ARA ingredients in affected countries. While the Codex Alimentarius Infant Formula Standard and the European Union and Australia/ New Zealand regulations all permit the optional addition of DHA and ARA in infant formula, there are no existing regulations in any country requiring the addition of DHA and ARA. Food Standards Australia New Zealand (“FSANZ”) received an Application from the Infant Formula Manufacturers Association of Australia and the New Zealand Infant Formula Marketer’s Association seeking to amend the regulations for infant and follow-on formula. The Applicants initially requested the removal of the requirement for formula to contain long-chain omega-6 fatty acids and omega-3 fatty acids in a ratio of approximately two to one when these products are added to formula. Subsequent to an Initial Assessment by FSANZ, the Applicants modified their original Application so that it now seeks an amendment to require an omega-6 to omega-3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid (“LCPUFA”) ratio that is not less than one to one. On May 23, 2007, FSANZ issued a Draft Assessment Report proposing that the preferred approach to amend the regulations would be to require an omega-6 to omega-3 LCPUFA ratio that is not less than one to one, should LCPUFAs be added to infant formula. If we are unable to obtain or maintain patent protection or if our patents do not provide protection against competitive products, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our success is largely dependent on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. Our policy is to aggressively protect our proprietary technology through patents, where appropriate, and in other cases, through trade secrets. Additionally, in certain cases, we rely on the licenses of patents and technology of third parties. We hold approximately 70 U.S. patents, covering various aspects of our technology, which will expire on various dates between 2009 and 2024. Our core infant formula-related U.S. patents expire between 2011 and 2014. We have been granted U.S. patents covering food and beverage products containing Martek’s DHA oil which expire by 2009, and granted U.S. patents covering certain processes for producing DHA-containing oil that may be used in foods and beverages which expire between 2009 and 2021. We have filed, and intend to file, applications for additional patents covering both our products and processes as appropriate. Currently, we have over 350 issued patents and over 500 pending patent applications worldwide. 20 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that (i) any patent applications filed by, assigned to or licensed to us will be granted; (ii) we will develop additional products that are patentable; (iii) any patents issued to or licensed by us will provide us with any competitive advantages or adequate protection for inventions; (iv) any patents issued to or licensed by us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others; or (v) issued patents, or patents that may be issued, will provide protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable. Furthermore, patent law relating to the scope of claims in the fields of healthcare and biosciences is still evolving, and our patent rights are subject to this uncertainty. European, United States and Asian patent authorities have not adopted a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed for health and bioscience patents. Our products might infringe the patent rights of others, whether existing now or in the future. Similarly, the products of others could infringe our patent rights. The defense and prosecution of patent claims are both costly and time consuming, even if the outcome is ultimately in our favor. An adverse outcome in infringement actions by Martek against third parties could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage provided by the affected Martek patent rights. An adverse outcome in infringement actions by third parties against Martek could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties and/or require us to cease selling the affected products. In certain competitive geographic markets, we do not have patent protection and may be unable to obtain it. In other competitive markets, we may be unable to maintain (through patent expiration or otherwise) the patent protection for our nutritional oils currently afforded to us. A lack of patent protection would have a material adverse effect on our ability to gain a competitive advantage for our oils and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, especially on future sales of our nutritional oils. In particular, a lack of patent protection would permit our competitors to manufacture products that would be directly competitive with our nutritional oils using similar or identical processes, and it is possible that our current infant formula or food and beverage licensees or those which may be under license in the future may choose ingredients from these competitors if they choose to include the ingredients at all. Furthermore, even if our licensees continue to use our oils, direct competition could force us to reduce the price of our products, which could materially affect future revenues and product margins. There are a number of intellectual property proceedings pending against Martek or that Martek has pending against third parties, including: • Aventis S.A. and Nagase & Co. Ltd. are challenging our European patent covering our DHA-containing oils. At a hearing in October 2000, the Opposition Division of the European Patent Office (“EPO”) revoked our patent on the grounds that it was not novel. We immediately appealed this ruling, and in July 2002 we received a positive ruling from an Appeal Board of the EPO, setting aside the prior decision to revoke this patent. The patent was returned to the Opposition Division for a determination as to whether it has met the legal requirement of “inventive step”. A hearing in August 2005 resulted in a ruling by the Opposition Division that this requirement had been met and the validity of the patent was upheld. Aventis appealed the decision to the Appeal Board of the EPO. Martek filed its answer to Aventis’ grounds for appeal in July 2006. The appeal hearing has been scheduled for March 2009. Claim 1 of this patent is the basis of the patent infringement suit against Nutrinova and Lonza in Germany, discussed below. In the event Martek were to lose this appeal, this DHA patent would be revoked. The revocation of this patent would result in the dismissal of the patent infringement suit against Nutrinova and Lonza in Germany, discussed below, and patent protection for Martek’s DHA-containing oils for use in infant formula would be compromised in Europe. Currently, annual sales of Martek’s DHA for use in infant formula in Europe to companies other than those with whom Martek has or expects to have an exclusive supply agreement are less than $1 million. Such exclusive agreements generally run through 2011. An adverse decision would not impact Martek’s ARA patent position in Europe. Moreover, the outcome of this appeal will not affect the patent infringement lawsuit against Lonza in the U.S., as the U.S. lawsuit is based on a different family of patents. • With respect to our ARA patent issued by the EPO, BASF AG, Friesland Brands B.V., and Suntory Limited filed their grounds for opposing this patent with the Opposition Division of the EPO. At a hearing at the Opposition Division in April 2005, the Opposition Division of the EPO upheld the patent in a form containing modified claims that were narrower than the claims originally granted. In an effort to broaden the claims of the patent, we appealed the decision. Suntory and BASF also appealed. Friesland Brands B.V. withdrew from the opposition. In April 2007, the EPO granted another patent to Martek for ARA oil made from Martek’s microbial source for use in infant formula. This divisional ARA patent strengthens Martek’s intellectual property position by providing commercially significant protection through the expiration date of the original patent, January 22, 2012. Suntory, N.V. Nutricia and Cargill filed oppositions against this divisional ARA patent. N.V. Nutricia has withdrawn from the opposition. In light of this divisional ARA patent, the Company withdrew from the appeal it had previously filed related to its original European ARA patent for infant formula that was upheld with narrowed claims by the EPO in April 2005. The original patent is no longer in force and effect. • Prior to our purchase of OmegaTech, Aventis Research and Technologies GmbH & Co. KG, and Nagase Limited challenged OmegaTech’s European patent covering its DHA-containing oils. At a hearing in December 2000, the Opposition Division of the EPO upheld some of the claims and revoked other claims. OmegaTech immediately appealed this ruling, as did Aventis. At an appeal hearing in May 2005, we received a favorable decision from the Appeal Board of the EPO, which overturned the decision of the Opposition Division and returned the case to the Opposition Division for review on the merits of the patent claims. In a November 2007 hearing, the Opposition Division upheld claims that are narrower than the claims originally granted but broader than the claims that were previously upheld in the December 2000 Opposition Division hearing. Martek and Aventis have appealed. The appeal process is not expected to be completed before 2009, during which time the patent will remain in full force and effect. • An EPO Opposition Division hearing was held on November 15, 2005, with respect to a European DHA patent acquired by Martek as part of the OmegaTech purchase. The patent was upheld in modified form. Nutrinova Nutrition Specialties & Food Ingredients GmbH is the only opponent, and they appealed. The appeal hearing was held in October 2008 and the patent was upheld in modified form. The modified patent claims are directed to processes for fermenting Thraustochytrium and Schizochytrium in a medium containing sodium sulfate and less than 120 milligrams per liter of chloride. 21 Table of Contents • In September 2003, we filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the U.S. District Court in Delaware against Nutrinova Inc., Nutrinova Nutrition Specialties & Food Ingredients GmbH, Celanese Ventures GmbH, and Celanese AG. Celanese Ventures GmbH and Celanese AG were dropped from the lawsuit. Lonza Ltd. was added to the lawsuit. In October 2006, after an almost two week trial in Wilmington, Delaware, the jury returned a favorable verdict to Martek, deciding that all three of the asserted Martek DHA patents were valid and infringed, and that one was willfully infringed. In October 2007, the judge upheld the October 2006 jury verdict that the defendants infringed all of the asserted claims of U.S. Patent Nos. 5,340,594 and 6,410,281 and that these patents were not invalid. The judge has granted a permanent injunction against the defendants with respect to those two patents. The judge also upheld the jury verdict that the defendants had acted willfully in their infringement of U.S. Patent No. 6,410,281. Regarding the third patent involved in the case, U.S. Patent No. 6,451,567, the judge reversed the jury verdict and found that the asserted claims of this patent were invalid. Martek’s request to the judge to reconsider his ruling on the third patent was denied. Martek and the defendants have appealed aspects of the judge’s final decision. The two patents where the infringement was upheld, U.S. Patent Nos. 5,340,594 and 6,410,281, are scheduled to expire in July 2009 and August 2011, respectively. • We also filed a patent infringement suit involving Nutrinova Nutrition Specialties & Food Ingredients GmbH and Celanese Ventures GmbH in Germany in January 2004. Lonza Ltd. and a customer of Nutrinova have also been added to this lawsuit. The complaint alleges infringement of our European patent relating to DHA-containing oils. A hearing was held in a district court in Dusseldorf in September 2007 and the court issued its decision in October 2007, ruling that Martek’s patent was infringed by the defendants. The defendants have appealed, and an appeal hearing was scheduled for February 2009. Martek and the defendants requested that the appeal hearing be delayed until the Appeal Board of the EPO decides whether to uphold Martek’s European patent covering our DHA-containing oils. As discussed above, this EPO Appeal Board hearing is scheduled for March 2009. In December 2008, Martek requested that the court expand the appeal to include Lonza’s production of DHA in Germany, based on evidence discovered in October 2008. • We filed a patent infringement suit involving Lonza Ltd AG and Capsugel France in France in November 2008. The complaint alleges infringement of our European patent relating to DHA-containing oils. • With respect to our ARA patent in South Korea, Suntory has filed an opposition. A hearing on the matter was held in late January 2006 and the Korean Intellectual Property Office Examiners ruled against Martek. Martek appealed. The appeal brief was filed in February 2007 and Suntory responded in August 2007. The Korean Intellectual Property Office ruled against Martek in September 2007, and we appealed to the Patent Court in October 2007. The Patent Court held hearings in August 2008 and September 2008. The Patent Court ruled against Martek in November 2008, and we appealed to the Korean Supreme Court in December 2008. The patent will remain in full force and effect during the pendency of the appeal. Martek has also filed a correction trial with the Korean Intellectual Property Office in an attempt to amend the claims so that they may be more acceptable to the court. • Suntory also initiated an invalidation case against one of our blended oil patents in South Korea. Our response to Suntory was filed in February 2005, Suntory responded in March 2006 and Martek filed further submissions in May 2006. A hearing was held in July 2006. A ruling against Martek was issued in February 2007. Martek appealed to the Patent Court in April 2007. The Patent Court ruled against Martek, and we appealed to the Korean Supreme Court in August 2008. The Korean Supreme Court issued a summary dismissal of our appeal in December 2008, resulting in this Korean blended oil patent being finally revoked. The revoked patent covered a blend of fish oil DHA and microbial oil ARA. • Martek is opposing two of Suntory’s low sterol ARA oil patents in Europe and one in Australia. The patents are generally directed to processes for producing microbial ARA oil having a low ratio of certain sterols, the resulting oil and its use in infant formula. Martek believes that the patents are invalid for a number of reasons, including prior art that anticipates the claims relevant to Martek. An Opposition Division hearing on the first European patent was held in April 2008, and the Opposition Division revoked the Suntory patent. Suntory has appealed, during which time the patent will remain in full force and effect. Hearings on the other European patent and on the Australian patent are expected in 2009. • Third parties have filed Requests for Reexamination (“Requests”) of ten of Martek’s U.S. patents. Seven of these Requests were filed by Lonza with respect to seven of Martek’s DHA patents (three of which have now expired) and an anonymous party filed the other three Requests with respect to two of Martek’s blended oils patents and one ARA patent. The U.S. Patent Office has granted all ten of the Requests to initiate a Reexamination process. As a result of Reexamination, the claims of the subject patents can be upheld in their current form, amended, abandoned or cancelled. Three of the patents have expired and another one is likely to expire before the initial Reexamination process is complete. In the event that Martek elects to appeal an unfavorable decision regarding five of the remaining six patents, which are scheduled to expire between 2011 and 2014, it is likely that any such patent would expire before all appeal options were exhausted. Only one patent, which expires in 2018, is likely to be subject to the risk of a shortened term if all appeal options are exhausted. If Martek were to decide not to pursue all of its appeal options, up to six of the patents could be subject to shortened terms under the worst-case scenario. • There are additional intellectual property proceedings pending against Martek or that Martek has pending against third parties that are not considered material. If any of the challenges described above or any other challenges to our patents that we do not currently consider material or that may arise in the future are successful, our competitors may be able to produce similar products and, as a result, we may experience decreases in the future sales of our nutritional oils or we may be forced to reduce the price of our products, which could also cause decreases in future revenues as well as product margins. Specifically, the revocation of our European DHA patent or ARA patent could result in a decrease in revenues under our license agreements. In addition, if our products are found to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we may have to pay substantial damages, license disputed rights from third parties and/or cease selling the affected products. Furthermore, it is our accounting policy to capitalize legal and related costs incurred in connection with patent applications and the defense of our patents. As of October 31, 2008, the net book value of our patent assets totaled $14.7 million, which includes approximately $5.8 million of costs related to our patent defenses in the Nutrinova/ Lonza matters discussed above, which will be amortized over a weighted average remaining period of approximately four years. If, in the future, it is determined to be unlikely that our patents will be successfully defended in connection with the challenges described above or if it is concluded that certain of our patents will no longer provide an economic benefit to the Company, a write-off of the costs ascribed to the particular patent or patents would be required. The effect of such write-off could be material to our results of operations. 22 Table of Contents We expect that in the future, as our nutritional oils continue to be commercialized, opposition to our intellectual property by our competitors will continue and most likely increase. We may incur substantial costs in the future protecting and defending our patents and cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully defend our patents or that our competitors will not be able to “design around” our intellectual property. We also expect that in the future, third parties may allege that Martek infringes their intellectual property rights, which could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties and/or require us to cease selling the affected products. If our non-infant formula customers do not introduce products containing our nutritional oils on a broad scale into the marketplace and consumers do not purchase such products, our sales to these markets will be limited. We are continuing to aggressively pursue further penetration of our DHA oils in the food and beverage, pregnancy and nursing, nutritional supplements and animal feed markets. To this end, we have signed license and supply agreements with several consumer products companies. Our success in penetrating this market, however, is dependent upon these customers introducing products that contain our nutritional oils into the marketplace and is further dependent upon the end consumer purchasing such products. Although some of our customers have launched products containing our oils, we cannot control whether our existing customers or potential new customers will continue to do so in the future, nor can we control whether our current or future customers will follow through with their planned launches of products containing our oils. Furthermore, as a broad scale product launch by our customers is likely dependent on actual or perceived consumer demand, which is inherently uncertain, we cannot control whether our customers will broadly distribute such DHA-enriched products or offer them beyond niche products or line extensions. To date, our non-infant formula customers have launched approximately 150 products containing our oils. Of the products launched, some have failed, but most remain on the market and are believed to be meeting customer expectations. Despite this fact, industry averages, particularly food and beverage, would continue to suggest that many of these products will not ultimately be successful in the marketplace. As such, the introduction of a product by our customers does not guarantee that the product will remain on the market. If our non-infant formula customers do not introduce products containing our nutritional oils on a broad scale into the marketplace and end consumers do not purchase such products, our sales to the food and beverage, pregnancy and nursing, nutritional supplements and animal feed markets would be limited. Our oils are very sensitive to oxidation and may not be very compatible with many liquid or dry foods that are currently on the market. If economical methods are not developed to successfully incorporate our oils into various food and beverage applications, we may never be able to gain large-scale entry into the food and beverage and nutritional supplements markets. Due to the sensitivity of our oils to oxidation, it is possible that our oils may vary over time in such a way as to negatively affect the taste, smell and/or shelf stability of food and beverage applications. While we believe that the food and beverage market could be a large market for DHA supplementation with our DHA-S oil, the potential in this market would be limited if methods are not developed that allow incorporation of the oil into various foods and beverages with, among other things, acceptable flavor, odor and texture for the duration of the shelf life of the food and beverage products. Furthermore, while DHA-enriched food and beverage products with acceptable flavor and stability have been developed, risks exist for other finished food and beverage products, including cereals, shelf-stable beverages and certain types of nutritional bars for which DHA supplementation has not yet been successfully established. Even if we can successfully incorporate our oils into foods and beverages, manufacturers of these products will have to develop methods to demonstrate feasibility in their production and distribution processes, including the packaging, storage and handling of such products. To facilitate this, our customers may require us to meet certain enhanced specifications and standards, our compliance with which cannot be assured. The timing and extent of our sales into the food and beverage market, therefore, are dependent not only on market demand, but also on customer formulation, production and distribution issues over which we have little or no control. If clinical trials do not continue to yield positive results on the benefits of DHA on cognitive function, cardiovascular health or other health applications, our future revenues may be limited in the food and beverage and the dietary supplement markets. Investigators at universities and at other research centers, such as NIH, have observed a relationship between low levels of DHA and a variety of health risks, including increased cardiovascular problems, Alzheimer’s disease and dementia and various other neurological and visual disorders. We are currently trying to establish what contribution, if any, supplementation with our oils will make in addressing these problems. Although clinical data are not required to market food and beverage ingredients or dietary supplements outside of the infant formula market, we believe that further clinical studies may be needed to validate the benefits of DHA supplementation in order to gain widespread entry into these markets. If clinical trials do not continue to yield positive results on the benefits of DHA or if these benefits are not considered significant by our targeted consumers, our future revenues in these markets may be limited. If our oils are unable to be used in organic food and beverage products, the opportunity for sales of our oils into the food and beverage market will be limited to non-organic products. The Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 required the U.S. Department of Agriculture (“USDA”) to develop national standards for organically produced agricultural products to assure consumers that agricultural products marketed as organic meet consistent, uniform standards. Accordingly, the USDA has put in place a set of national standards (the “National Organic Program” or “NOP”) that food labeled “organic” must meet, whether it is grown in the United States or imported from other countries. Under the NOP regulations, only a USDA-accredited certifying agent may make the determination that a food product may be labeled as organic. Martek is not a USDA-accredited certifying agent. Some of our customers have obtained organic certification from USDA-accredited certifying agents and have received authorization to use the USDA’s organic seal on certain products that contain our oils. In some instances, such products have been further reviewed and the authorization to use Martek’s oils has been explicitly ratified by the USDA. Certain advocacy groups, however, have challenged these authorizations and ratifications. Because the NOP regulations are subject to change and interpretation, there can be no guarantee that our oils will be acceptable for use in all organic products. Organic food sales accounted for approximately 3% of the total U.S. food sales in 2006; however, we believe that interest from food manufacturers in producing and selling organic products is expanding. If our oils are ineligible for inclusion in some products that bear the USDA organic seal, our sales opportunity in the food and beverage market may be adversely impacted. 23 Table of Contents Because food and beverage pricing is very competitive, the premium that our oils adds to the cost of a food or beverage may never allow it to be priced at levels that will allow acceptance by consumers. Food and beverage pricing is very competitive and the market is very sensitive to product price changes. Moreover, these consumer sensitivities are further heightened during periods of economic uncertainty and downturn. Because the inclusion of our oils may add to the retail cost of these products, there is the risk that our potential customers in this market may not be able to sell supplemented products at prices that will allow them to gain market acceptance while, at the same time, remaining profitable. This may lead to our customers delaying or suspending product launches, or, at a minimum, may lead to price pressure on us. If our food and beverage customers delay product launches or we have to reduce our prices, our sales and/or profitability relative to the food and beverage market may be adversely impacted. If we are unable to gain broad regulatory approvals for the incorporation of our oils into foods and beverages worldwide, our future revenues in the food and beverage market may be limited. To date, our DHA-S oil has received regulatory approval or is accepted for inclusion in foods and beverages, with certain country-specific limitations, in Australia, New Zealand, the European Community, the United States, Canada, Mexico, China, Japan and Israel. With respect to approvals in Europe and Israel, the use of our DHA-S is authorized as an ingredient in certain foods such as certain dairy products, including cheese and yogurt (but not milk-based drinks), spreads and dressings, breakfast cereals, food supplements and dietary foods for special medical purposes. We have been working to extend approval in Europe into additional food categories but thus far, we have been unsuccessful. We will continue efforts to extend food categories to which DHA-S oil can be added in Europe, but our ability to succeed in this regard is uncertain. In other parts of the world, laws and regulations with respect to the addition of our oils into foods and beverages are diverse and our ability to gain the necessary regulatory approvals is unclear. If we are unable to gain broad approvals for the incorporation of our oils into foods and beverages worldwide, our future revenues in the food and beverage market may be limited. If it is determined that large amounts of eicosapentaenoic acid (“EPA”) must accompany DHA in order to achieve optimal health benefits, we may never be able to gain large-scale entry into the food and beverage and dietary supplements markets. The rationale for supplementing foods and beverages with DHA is to, in part, improve overall cardiovascular system and/or central nervous system development and health. In September 2004, the FDA authorized a qualified health claim that may be utilized for food and beverage products containing both DHA and EPA relating to the reduction of risk of coronary heart disease. No minimum amounts for either DHA or EPA were established as prerequisites for the claim. Our DHA-S oil includes limited amounts of EPA and therefore products containing the DHA-S oil are eligible for use of the qualified health claim. Studies have been completed in the past to investigate the independent effects of DHA and EPA on health and additional studies may be ongoing or conducted in the future. If consensus of results from these studies establishes that relatively large amounts of EPA are required to be supplemented with DHA in order to achieve the optimal cardiovascular benefits, then our penetration of the food and beverage and dietary supplements markets may be limited. If the FDA finalizes its proposed rule to prohibit nutrient content claims for DHA and EPA, our penetration of the food and beverage and dietary supplements markets may be limited. In November 2007, the FDA issued a proposed rule that would prohibit the nutrient content claims for DHA and EPA that had been authorized in three previously submitted Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act (FDAMA) notifications. The FDA is proposing to prohibit the DHA and EPA nutrient content claims because the agency does not believe they are based on an authoritative statement. The FDA specifically acknowledged that it did not conduct an independent review of the scientific evidence when evaluating these nutrient content claims. In addition to other stakeholders, we have submitted comments in opposition to this proposed rule. It is unclear when the FDA will issue a final rule. In the event the proposed rule becomes final, the potential health benefits of consuming DHA and EPA still may be communicated through the use of a qualified health claim and/or structure/function claims that are made consistent with applicable FDA requirements and/or quantitative claims. Nonetheless, our penetration of the food and beverage and dietary supplements markets may be limited if this proposed rule is implemented. If the FDA narrowly interprets certain sections of the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, such an interpretation could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In July 2008, the FDA issued a notice and request for comments on section 912 of the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, titled “Prohibition Against Food to Which Drugs or Biological Products Have Been Added.” This section of the Act prohibits the use in food of certain authorized drugs and biological substances, including certain such substances that have been the subject of substantial clinical investigations that have been made public. The prohibition applies unless companies first marketed the substance in food prior to the FDA authorization and before the substantial clinical investigations had been instituted. We have submitted comments to the FDA in which we assert that the implementation of section 912 should be based on the intended purpose of the clinical investigation rather than on the mere existence of such an investigation. A more restrictive interpretation of the implementation of section 912 could not only discourage companies from sponsoring clinical research for new food ingredients, but could also bar the continued marketing of some food ingredients and dietary supplements already on the market. Such an interpretation by the FDA could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 24 Table of Contents We have a single third-party supplier of our ARA with whom we have a contractual relationship. If this supplier of our ARA is unable to supply us with our required amounts of ARA or if an over-capacity situation by our supplier leads to higher cost ARA, our results of operations and/or financial position may be adversely affected. We have entered into an agreement with a third-party manufacturer, DSM, to supply us with ARA. Because DSM is a third-party manufacturer, we have only limited control over the timing and level of its Capua and Belvidere production volumes. If DSM fails to supply us with required amounts of ARA under our agreement, we would not be able to meet our customers’ demands unless we were able to utilize alternative sources of supply. In this regard, we would have to either manufacture the ARA at one or both of our plants, which may be more costly and would also reduce our DHA oil production capacity, or enter into other third-party manufacturer supply agreements, which we may not be able to do in a timely manner. Furthermore, due to certain contractual provisions, if our demand for ARA falls short of DSM’s supply capability, this excess capacity by our supplier will result in higher unit-based ARA costs to us. If we are unable to purchase or produce sufficient and/or cost-effective quantities of ARA, our future results of operations and/or financial position may be adversely affected. Market fluctuations in the availability and cost of raw materials and energy are beyond our control and may adversely impact our business. Raw material and energy costs are a significant operating expense of our production facilities and we are dependent on outside suppliers for nearly all of our key raw material and energy needs. The prices and availability of raw materials and energy can be volatile and are susceptible to rapid and substantial changes due to factors beyond our control such as changing economic conditions, weather conditions and supply and demand considerations. A substantial decrease in the availability of raw materials and/or energy from the Company’s suppliers, the loss of a key supplier or a substantial increase in the cost of our raw materials and/or energy could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations. If customer demand for our nutritional oils requires us or our major suppliers to increase production beyond current levels, we may experience certain risks associated with the ramp-up of commercial manufacturing that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations. When combining our current DHA production capabilities in Winchester and Kingstree with DSM’s current ARA production capabilities in Italy and the U.S., we currently have production capacity for all DHA and ARA products in excess of $500 million in annualized sales, collectively, to the infant formula market and pregnancy and nursing, food and beverage, dietary supplement and animal feed markets. Our and DSM’s ability to maintain commercial production at these higher levels has not been successfully tested. As we and our major suppliers increase our production, we may encounter many risks associated with our commercial manufacturing such as: • we may experience problems processing, handling and shipping the higher quantities of oil produced from our expanded facilities; • the costs of expanding, operating and maintaining our production facilities may exceed our expectations; • product defects may result; • lower than anticipated fermentation success rates may result; • lower downstream processing yields may result; • environmental and safety problems may result from our production process; and • regulatory issues relating to the scale-up and operations regarding our production processes may arise. If we were to experience any one or more of these problems, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations. We have significantly increased our manufacturing capacity and have incurred substantial costs in doing so. If we are unable to increase our revenues from our nutritional oils produced at these facilities, we may continue to experience excess production capacity and we may be unable to recover these plant expansion costs, which could result in a write-down of certain production assets. In connection with our efforts to alleviate supply constraints with our infant formula licensees and to prepare for other applications of our products, we expanded our internal production capacity and incurred significant expansion costs in doing so. As of October 31, 2008, the Company had $38.2 million of production assets that are currently idle and are being held for future use. Our ability to recover the costs of these and certain other assets will depend on increased revenue from our nutritional oils produced at our facilities. There are no assurances that we will be able to achieve this goal. In accordance with SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” if it is estimated that we will not be able to ultimately recover the carrying amounts of the production assets, we would be required to record an asset impairment write-down. The effect of such write-down could be material. In addition, when experiencing excess capacity, we may be unable to produce the required quantities of oil cost-effectively, which could have a material adverse effect on our product margins and overall profitability. 25 Table of Contents Failure to effectively manage our growth could disrupt our operations and prevent us from generating the revenues and gross profit margins we expect. In response to current and expected demand for our nutritional oils, we have expanded our production capabilities to meet such demand and to ensure the existence of dual-plant manufacturing redundancy. To manage our growth successfully we must implement, constantly improve and effectively utilize our operational and financial systems while expanding our production capacity and workforce. We must also maintain and strengthen the breadth and depth of our current strategic relationships while developing new relationships. Our existing or planned operational and financial systems may not be sufficient to support our growth; we may not successfully control production costs and maintain current and anticipated gross profit levels; and our management may not be able to effectively identify, manage and exploit existing and emerging market opportunities. If we do not adequately manage our growth, our business and future revenues will suffer. Our opportunity in the U.S. infant formula market may be limited by the renewal rate of supplemented formulas into the Women, Infants and Children program or if the eligibility requirements for participating in the program are made more restrictive or if the amount of infant formula offered to participants is reduced. We estimate that of the total current annual U.S. market opportunity for sales of supplemented infant formula, approximately half represents Women, Infants and Children (“WIC”)-funded sales. WIC is a federal grant program that is state-administered for the benefit of low-income nutritionally at-risk women, infants and children. Most WIC state agencies provide only one brand of infant formula to its participants, depending on which company has the rebate contract in a particular state. Currently, WIC programs in 50 states and the District of Columbia offer term and certain specialty infant formula products supplemented with our oils. If supplemented formulas are removed from WIC programs that previously adopted them, eligibility requirements for participating in WIC become more restrictive, or if any of our licensees fail to renew, in a timely fashion, their contract awards from WIC agencies for the adoption of a supplemented infant formula, then our future revenues from supplemented infant formula sales in the U.S. would be limited. Further, in December 2007, the USDA, the federal agency which governs WIC, issued an interim final rule which included a reduction in the amount of infant formula to be offered through WIC. State WIC agencies have until August 2009 to implement this change and the USDA is accepting comments on this interim final rule through February 2010. If there is a permanent reduction in the amount of infant formula offered through WIC, then our future infant formula revenues could be materially affected. Our business would be harmed if we fail to comply with applicable good manufacturing practices as required by the FDA. In connection with the manufacture of certain of our products, we are required to adhere to applicable current “good manufacturing practice” (“GMP”) regulations as required by the FDA. GMP regulations specify production and process controls, component and product testing standards, quality control and quality assurance requirements, and records and other documentation controls. As a manufacturer of DHA and ARA that are marketed as dietary supplements and used as ingredients in infant formulas and foods and beverages sold in the United States, we are subject to GMP and various other requirements applicable to such products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to manufacture our nutritional oils in accordance with relevant food and beverage, dietary supplement and infant formula requirements for commercial use. Ongoing compliance with GMP and other applicable regulatory requirements is monitored through periodic inspections by state and federal agencies, including the FDA and comparable agencies in other countries. A determination that we are in violation of such GMP and other regulations could lead to an interruption of our production output and the imposition of civil penalties, including fines, product recalls or product seizures, and, in the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions. Our manufacturing process involves the handling of hazardous materials and emission of regulated pollutants. If we fail to properly handle these hazardous materials and/or emissions, substantial costs and harm to our business could result. In connection with our research and development and manufacturing activities, we utilize some hazardous materials and emit regulated pollutants. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling, discharge, management and disposal of hazardous materials and the emission of regulated pollutants. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be significant, and our ability to comply with certain emission requirements is somewhat dependent upon raw materials produced by others, over whom we have little or no control. Moreover, we could be subject to loss of our permits, government fines or penalties and/or other adverse governmental or private party action if our hazardous materials or waste products are used, stored, handled, emitted or otherwise managed in violation of law or any permit. In addition, we could be subject to liability if hazardous materials or waste are released into the environment. A substantial fine, penalty or judgment, the payment of significant environmental remediation costs or natural resource damages or property or personal injury damages, or the loss of a permit or other authorization to operate or engage in our ordinary course of business could result in material, unanticipated expenses and the possible inability to satisfy customer demand for our nutritional oils. Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable federal and state regulations. Our business is subject to extensive federal and state regulation. Current products and products in development cannot be sold if we or our customers do not obtain or maintain regulatory approvals. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program, we cannot assure you that we or our employees are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable federal and state regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations a range of actions could result, materially affecting our business and financial condition, including, but not limited to, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, including withdrawal of our products from the market, significant fines, or other sanctions. 26 Table of Contents Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims and recalls, which could adversely impact our financial condition and performance. Our development, manufacture and marketing of products involve an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls, product seizures and related adverse publicity. In addition, as only a small amount of our oils resides in our customers’ end product, a recall of our oils could impact a much larger recall of our customers’ end products. With respect to infant formula, customer recall could result from such things as contamination, spoilage, product misbranding or product tampering, whether real or perceived. Although we currently maintain product liability and recall insurance for our products in the amounts we believe to be commercially reasonable, we cannot be certain that the coverage limits of our insurance policies or those of our strategic partners will be adequate. Insurance coverage for such risks is expensive and difficult to obtain, and we may be unable to obtain coverage in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient insurance at an acceptable cost, a product liability claim or recall could adversely impact our financial condition. Furthermore, if a product liability claim is made against us or if there is a product recall, whether fully covered by insurance or not, our future sales could be adversely impacted due to, among other things, negative publicity and the resulting inability to effectively market our products. We may need additional capital in the future to continue our research and development efforts, to conduct product testing, including preclinical and clinical trials, and to market our products. We may also need additional capital to expand our production capacity if market demand for our products continues to grow. As of October 31, 2008, we had approximately $102.5 million in cash and cash equivalents as well as $135 million of our revolving credit facility available to meet future capital requirements. We may require additional capital to fund, among other things, our research and development, product testing, and marketing activities. Our ability to meet future demand may require even further expansion of our production capability for our nutritional oils, which would also require additional capital. The timing and extent of our additional cash needs will primarily depend on: (a) the timing and extent of future launches of infant formula products containing our oils by our licensees; (b) the timing and extent of introductions of DHA into foods and beverages and/or dietary supplements for children and adults; and (c) our ability to generate profits from the sales of our nutritional products. To continue to fund our growth, we may pursue various sources of funding, which may include debt financing, equity issuances, asset-based borrowing, lease financing, and collaborative arrangements with partners. In September 2005, we amended and expanded our secured revolving credit facility to $135 million and extended the term until September 2010. This debt financing arrangement requires us to comply with financial covenants, which we may not be able to meet if demand for our products was to significantly decline, if there was a significant change in our financial position or if our cash needs are greater than we currently anticipate. Additionally, funding from other sources may not be available, or may not be available on terms that would be commercially acceptable or permit us to continue the planned commercialization of our products or expansion of our production capacity. Furthermore, future equity issuances may be dilutive to our existing shareholders. If we obtain funds through collaborative or strategic partners, these partners may require us to give them technology or product rights, including patent rights, that could ultimately diminish our value. If we cannot secure adequate funding, we may need to scale back our research, development, manufacturing, and commercialization programs, which may have a material adverse effect on our future business. The market price of our common stock may experience a high level of volatility due to factors such as the volatility in the market for biotechnology stocks generally, and the short-term effect of a number of possible events. We are a public growth company in the biosciences sector. As frequently occurs among these companies, the market price for our common stock may experience a high level of volatility. During the fifty-two week period ending October 31, 2008, our common stock traded between $39.60 and $22.47 per share. During the fifty-two week period ending October 31, 2007, our common stock traded between $31.00 and $19.64 per share. The following are examples of items that may significantly impact the market price for our common stock: • announcements of technical innovations, new commercial products and product launches by us or our competitors; • announcements of use of competitors’ DHA and/or ARA products by our customers; • arrangements or strategic partnerships by us or our competitors; • announcements of license agreements, acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; • announcements of sales by us or our competitors • announcements of results of clinical trials by us, our competitors or others; • patent or other intellectual property achievements or adverse developments; • quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and results of operations; • failure to enter into favorable third-party manufacturing agreements; 27 Table of Contents • regulatory decisions (approvals or disapprovals) or changes concerning our products and our competitors’ products; • events related to threatened, new or existing litigation, or the results thereof; • changes in our estimates of financial performance or changes in recommendations by securities analysts; and • general market conditions for growth companies and bioscience companies. Because we may experience a high level of volatility in our common stock, you should not invest in our stock unless you are prepared to absorb a significant loss of your capital. At any given time, you may not be able to sell your shares at a price that you think is acceptable. The market liquidity for our stock is relatively low. As of October 31, 2008, we had 33,147,360 shares of common stock outstanding. The average daily trading volume in our common stock during the fifty-two week period ending October 31, 2008 was approximately 500,000 shares. Although a more active trading market may develop in the future, the limited market liquidity for our stock may affect your ability to sell at a price that is satisfactory to you. Current economic and market conditions could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Many economists believe that the United States economy, and possibly the global economy, has entered a severe recession. Due to factors such as uncertainties in consumer spending, a regional and/or global economic downturn may reduce the demand for our nutritional oils. If demand for our oils declines, our revenue and profitability will be adversely affected. Furthermore, challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay for products they have purchased and may impair the ability of our vendors to supply us with items critical to the operation of our business. Any of these negative occurrences could adversely impact our operating results, financial condition or business, in general. If significant shares eligible for future sales are sold, the result may depress our stock price by increasing the supply of our shares in the market at a time when demand may be limited. As of October 31, 2008, we had 33,147,360 shares of common stock and approximately 400,000 unvested restricted stock units outstanding, as well as stock options outstanding to purchase an aggregate of approximately 2.6 million shares of common stock. Of the stock options, substantially all were exercisable at December 18, 2008, and approximately 1.0 million had exercise prices that were below the market price on this date. The restricted stock units will vest and common stock will issue at various dates through 2013. To the extent that these options for our common stock are exercised, restricted stock units vest or we issue additional shares to raise capital, the increase in the number of our outstanding shares of common stock may adversely affect the price for our common stock. This could hurt our ability to raise capital through the future sale of equity securities. If we continue to require additional outside sources of capital to finance, among other things, our research and development, product testing and the manufacturing and marketing of our products, we may need to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates could reduce profitability. A portion of the ARA we buy from DSM is denominated in euros. We expect that for fiscal 2009, approximately 25% of our ARA received from DSM will be subject to currency risk. Fluctuations in the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate can adversely impact our cost of ARA oil and our gross margins. To reduce the risk of unpredictable changes in these costs, we may, from time to time, enter into forward foreign exchange contracts. However, due to the variability of timing and amount of payments under these contracts, the forward foreign exchange contracts may not mitigate the potential adverse impact on our financial results and in fact may themselves cause financial harm. Furthermore, these contracts have inherent levels of counterparty risk over which we have no control. We have entered into foreign currency forward contracts with outstanding notional values aggregating approximately 26.0 million euros at October 31, 2008. We estimate that a 5% change in the exchange rate would impact gross margins of our infant formula products by less than 0.5%. 28 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 