Item 1A. Risk Factors We have a history of losses and can offer no assurance of future profitability. We incurred net losses from continuing operations of $20,366,663, $20,844,615 and $12,529,496 in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and additional losses in previous years. At December 31, 2015, we had an accumulated deficit of $142,049,846. We cannot offer any assurance that we will be able to generate sustained or future earnings. Our liquidity may be dependent upon amounts available through additional debt or equity financings. We have a history of operating losses and negative cash flow from operating activities. As such, we have utilized funds from offerings of our equity securities to fund our operations. We have taken steps to improve our overall liquidity and believe we have sufficient liquidity to meet our needs for the next twelve months. However, in the event our cash flow from operating activities is insufficient to meet our requirements, we may be forced either to secure a line of credit or seek additional equity financing. The sale of additional securities could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. There can be no assurance that such financing would be available or, if available, that such financing could be obtained upon terms acceptable to us. 8 Our financial condition would be adversely impacted if our goodwill becomes impaired. As a result of acquisition accounting for our various acquisitions, we have accumulated $13,457,693 of goodwill as of December 31, 2015 of which $6,337,967 related to our Advanced Wound Care segment and $7,119,726 related to our Traditional Wound Care segment. Our goodwill is not amortized, but is tested for impairment at least annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of each segment, and collectively the Company taken as a whole, might exceed its fair value. The impairment test requires us to compare the fair value of each segment to their carrying value, including goodwill. In addition, we evaluate the fair value of our outstanding common stock to determine whether it exceeds our overall carrying value. The fair value of each segment is determined using the “income approach,” where we use a discounted cash flow model to evaluate our goodwill impairment assessment or in combination with other generally acceptable valuation methodologies such as “market approaches”, which utilize comparable company multiples and merger and acquisitions. We predominantly use the income approach because we believe the income approach most appropriately measures our income producing assets. If our goodwill were to become impaired, we would need to recognize a non-cash impairment charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated balance sheet, results of operations and potentially, our common stock price. The results of the annual impairment test performed as of December 31, 2015 indicated the fair value of each segment exceeded its carrying value and the fair value of our outstanding common stock exceeded the carrying value of the Company taken as a whole. The market price of the Company’s common stock has been subject to volatility over the past several months due to overall market conditions and Company events that have taken place. In November 2015, the Company terminated its pharmaceutical development operations (see Note 3 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements) and in December 2015, it announced the implementation of a restructuring plan and the departure of its Chief Executive Officer (see Note 4 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements). As of December 31, 2015, the Company’s carrying value was $98.4 million, or $3.80 per share of outstanding common stock and the Company’s market value was $118.3 million, or $4.57 per share of outstanding common stock based on the closing trading price on such date. Since January 7, 2016 through March 14, 2016, the market price of the Company’s common stock has declined and has traded in a range of $2.85 to $3.91, and has generally been below our carrying value of $3.80 as of December 31, 2015, and as such, is indicative of a possible impairment. Consequently, if our stock price remains at such levels or decreases further our goodwill may be determined to be impaired and the Company would need to recognize a non-cash impairment charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated balance sheet, results of operations, and potentially the Company’s stock price. Our foreign operations are essential to our economic success and are subject to various unique risks. Our future operations and earnings will depend to a large extent on the results of our international operations and our ability to maintain a continuous supply of wound care products from our international operations and suppliers. While we do not envision any adverse change to our international operations or suppliers, adverse changes to these operations, as a result of political, governmental, regulatory, economic, exchange rate, labor, logistical or other factors, could have a material adverse effect on our future operating results. The rate of reimbursement for the purchase of our products by government and private insurance is subject to change. Sales of several of our wound care products depend partly on the ability of our customers to obtain reimbursement for the cost of our products from government health administration agencies such as Medicare and Medicaid and other global government authorities. Government health administration agencies and private insurance firms continuously seek to reduce healthcare costs. Our ability to commercialize our products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of such products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved medical products. 9 The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of healthcare services to contain or reduce costs of healthcare may adversely affect: •Our ability to set a price we believe is fair for our products; •Our ability to generate revenues or achieve or maintain profitability; and •The availability to us of capital. Payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage, which requires clinical data and the level of reimbursement, particularly for new therapeutic products or where fiduciary parties, including third party payors perceive that the target indication of the new product is well served by existing drugs or other treatments. Accordingly, even if coverage and reimbursement are provided, market acceptance of our products would be adversely affected if the amount of coverage and/or reimbursement available for the use of our products proved to be administratively burdensome or unprofitable for healthcare providers or less profitable than alternative treatments. In addition, reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid and other third-party payors may be subject to periodic adjustments as a result of legislative, regulatory and policy changes as well as budgetary pressures. Possible reductions in, or eliminations of, coverage or reimbursement by third-party payors, or denial of, or provision of uneconomical reimbursement for new products, as a result of these changes may affect our customers' revenue and ability to purchase our products. Any changes in the healthcare regulatory, payment or enforcement landscape relative to our customers' healthcare services has the potential to significantly affect our operations and revenue. There have been federal and state legislation changes which have subjected the pricing of healthcare goods and services to government control and made other changes to the U.S. healthcare system. While we cannot predict the outcome of current or future legislation, we anticipate, particularly given the recent enactment of healthcare reform legislation that governmental authorities will continue to introduce initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of healthcare. In addition, in certain foreign markets the pricing of drugs is subject to government control and reimbursement may in some cases be unavailable or insufficient. It is uncertain if future legislation, whether domestic or abroad, will be adopted that might affect our products. It is also uncertain what actions government including federal and/or state, or private payors for healthcare treatment and services may take in response to any such healthcare reform proposals or legislation. Any such healthcare reforms could have a material and adverse effect on the marketability of any products for which we ultimately receive FDA or other regulatory agency clearance/approval or for which we receive government sponsored reimbursements. Our success may depend upon our ability to protect our patents and proprietary technology. We own patents, both in the U.S. and abroad, for several of our products, and rely upon the protection afforded by our patents and trade secrets to protect our technology. Our future success may depend upon our ability to protect our intellectual property. However, the enforcement of intellectual property rights can be both expensive and time consuming. Therefore, we may not be able to devote the resources necessary to prevent infringement of our intellectual property. Also, our competitors may develop or acquire substantially similar technologies without infringing our patents or trade secrets. For these reasons, we cannot be certain that our patents and proprietary technology will provide us with a competitive advantage. Government regulation plays a significant role in our ability to develop, manufacture, and market products. Government regulation by the U.S. FDA and similar agencies in other countries is a significant factor in the development, manufacturing and marketing of many of our products and in our acquisition or licensing of new products. Complying with government regulations is often times consuming and expensive and may involve delays or actions adversely impacting the marketing and sale of our current or future products. A significant portion of our products are sourced from third parties. A significant portion of our products are sourced in raw, semi-finished and finished form directly from third party suppliers. None of these sourced products presently account for more than 10% of our sales with the exception of MEDIHONEY and TCC-EZ. We maintain good relations with our third party suppliers. With the exception of MEDIHONEY, TCC-EZ and our AMNIO Products there are several third party suppliers available for each of our products. If a current supplier were unable or unwilling to continue to supply our products, sale of the affected products could be delayed for the period necessary to secure a replacement. 10 The various technologies utilized in many of our advanced wound care products are licensed from third parties and one or more could become unavailable. A significant percentage of our advanced wound care products utilize technology that we license on an exclusive basis from third parties. These products include MEDIHONEY dressings, BIOGUARD dressings, TCC-EZ total contact casts and our AMNIO Products. The licensing agreements that we have with the owner of the TCC-EZ technology is of limited duration and renewal of the agreement is at the discretion of the licensor. In addition, in some instances, the maintenance of the license agreements requires that we meet various minimum sales and/or minimum royalty requirements. If we fail to meet the minimum sales or minimum royalty requirements of a given license agreement, there is a possibility that the agreement will be cancelled or not renewed or that our exclusivity under the license agreement will be withdrawn. If any of these events were to occur, our ability to sell the products utilizing the licensed technology could be lost or compromised and our revenues and potential profits could be adversely affected. Competitors could invent products superior to ours and cause our products and technologies to become obsolete. The wound care sector of the medical products industry is characterized by rapidly evolving technology and intense competition. Our competitors currently manufacture and distribute a variety of products that are in many respects comparable to our products. Many suppliers of competing products are considerably larger and have much greater resources than we do. In addition, many specialized products companies have formed collaborations with large, established companies to support research, development and commercialization of wound care products which may be competitive with ours. Academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations are also conducting research activities and may commercialize wound care products on their own or through joint ventures. While we have no specific knowledge of products under development by our competitors, it is possible that these competitors may develop technologies and products that are more effective than any we currently have. If this occurs, any of our products and technology affected by these developments could become obsolete. Although we are insured, any material product liability claims could adversely affect our business. We sell over-the-counter products and medical devices and are exposed to the risk of lawsuits claiming alleged injury caused by our products. Among the grounds for potential claims against us are injuries due to alleged product inefficacy and injuries resulting from infection due to allegedly non-sterile products. Although we carry product liability insurance with limits of $1.0 million per occurrence and $2.0 million aggregate with $10.0 million in umbrella coverage, this insurance may not be adequate to reimburse us for all damages that we could suffer as a result of successful product liability claims. Also, defending against a claim could be time consuming and costly. No material product liability claim has ever been made against us and we are not aware of any pending product liability claims. However, a successful material product liability suit could adversely affect our business. We are subject to stringent medical device regulation and any adverse regulatory action may materially affect our financial condition and business operations. Fraud, Abuse and False Claims We are directly and indirectly subject to various federal and state laws governing relationships with healthcare providers and pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws. In particular, the federal healthcare program Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, arranging for or recommending a good or service for which payment may be made in whole or part under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Penalties for violations include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as fines, imprisonment and possible exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the healthcare industry. In implementing the statute, the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“OIG”) has issued a series of regulations, known as the “safe harbors.” These safe harbors set forth provisions that, if all their applicable requirements are met, will assure healthcare providers and other parties that they will not be prosecuted under the Anti-Kickback Statute. The failure of a transaction or arrangement to fit precisely within one or more safe harbors does not necessarily mean that it is illegal or that prosecution will be pursued. However, conduct and business arrangements that do not fully satisfy each applicable element of a safe harbor may result in increased scrutiny by government enforcement authorities, such as the OIG. Many states have laws similar to the federal law. 11 The Federal False Claims Act (“FCA”) imposes civil liability on any person or entity that submits, or causes the submission of, a false or fraudulent claim to the U.S. Government. Damages under the FCA can be significant and consist of the imposition of fines and penalties. The FCA also allows a private individual or entity with knowledge of past or present fraud against the federal government to sue on behalf of the government to recover the civil penalties and treble damages. The U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) on behalf of the government has previously alleged that the marketing and promotional practices of pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers including the off-label promotion of products or the payment of prohibited kickbacks to doctors violated the FCA resulting in the submission of improper claims to federal and state healthcare entitlement programs such as Medicaid. In certain cases, manufacturers have entered into criminal and civil settlements with the federal government under which they entered into plea agreements, paid substantial monetary amounts and entered into corporate integrity agreements that require, among other things, substantial reporting and remedial actions going forward. The FDA has been increasing its scrutiny of the medical device industry and the government is expected to continue to scrutinize the industry closely with inspections, and possibly enforcement actions, by the FDA or other agencies. Additionally, the FDA may restrict manufacturing and impose other operating restrictions, enjoin and restrain certain violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices, and assess civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees, or us. The FDA may also recommend prosecution to the DOJ. Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively manufacturing, marketing and selling our products. In addition, negative publicity and product liability claims resulting from any adverse regulatory action could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Tissue Product Regulations Our AMNIOEXCEL® and AMNIOMATRIX® products are derived from human tissue. The FDA has specific regulations governing human cells, tissues and cellular and tissue-based products (“HCT/Ps”). An HCT/P is a product containing or consisting of human cells or tissue intended for transplantation into a human patient. HCT/Ps that meet the criteria for regulation solely under Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act (so-called “361 HCT/Ps”) are not subject to any premarket clearance or approval requirements and are subject to less stringent post-market regulatory requirements. There can be no assurance that the FDA will not, at some future point, take the position that our current or any future tissue products do not qualify for regulation as 361 HCT/Ps. Any regulatory reclassification could have adverse consequences for us and make it more difficult or expensive for us to conduct our business by requiring premarket clearance or approval and compliance with additional post-market regulatory requirements with respect to those products. Moreover, increased regulatory scrutiny could lead to increased regulation of HCT/Ps, including 361 HCT/Ps. We also cannot guarantee that the FDA will not impose more stringent definitions with respect to products that qualify as 361 HCT/Ps or interpret existing regulations in a manner that will require submission of a Biologics License Application for some or all of our HCT/P products. For example, two of the regulatory criteria that must be met in order for a product to be regulated solely as an HCT/P are that the HCT/P be “minimally manipulated” and that it be “intended for homologous use only”. The FDA has recently issued two separate draft guidance documents interpreting these requirements, each of which are scheduled to be the subject of a public hearing to be held by the FDA at an as yet to be announced date later in 2016. The potential increase in common shares due to the conversion, exercise or vesting of outstanding dilutive securities may have a depressive effect upon the market value of our shares. Up to 4,332,954 shares of our common stock were potentially issuable at December 31, 2015 upon the conversion, exercise or vesting of outstanding convertible preferred stock, warrants, options and restricted stock units. The shares of common stock potentially issuable upon conversion, exercise or vesting of these securities are substantial compared to the 25,876,870 shares of common stock outstanding at December 31, 2015. 12 Earnings per share of common stock may be substantially diluted by the existence of these dilutive securities regardless of whether they are converted, exercised or issued. This dilution of earnings per share could have a depressive effect upon the market value of our common stock. Our stock price has been volatile and this volatility is likely to continue. Historically, the market price of our common stock has been volatile. The high and low bid prices for the years 2011 through 2015 are set forth in the table below: Derma Sciences, Inc. Trading Range – Common Stock Year Low High 2011 $4.50 $12.72 2012 $6.94 $11.89 2013 $9.93 $15.45 2014 $7.88 $15.51 2015 $3.85 $9.89 Events that may affect our common stock price include: •Quarter to quarter variations in our operating results; •Changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts; •Changes in interest rates, exchange rates or other general economic conditions; •Changes in market conditions in the wound care industry; •Fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies; •Discussion of us or our stock price by the financial and scientific press and in online investor communities; •Additions or departures of key personnel; •Changes in third party reimbursement policies; •The introduction of new products either by us or by our competitors; •The loss of a major customer; and •Our termination of pharmaceutical development activities. Although publicly traded securities are subject to price and volume fluctuations, it is likely that our common stock will experience these fluctuations to a greater degree than the securities of more established and better capitalized organizations. We have not paid, and we are unlikely to pay in the near future, cash dividends on our securities. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common or preferred stock and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends by us will depend on our future earnings, financial condition and such other business and economic factors as our management may consider relevant. Our common stock does not have a vigorous trading market and you may not be able to sell your securities when desired. We have a limited active public market for our common shares. We cannot assure you that a more active public market will develop thereby allowing you to sell large quantities of our shares. Consequently, you may not be able to readily liquidate your investment. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 13 