Item 1A. Risk Factors We have a history of losses and can offer no assurance of future profitability. We incurred losses of $4,340,411 in 2011 and $2,448,864 in 2010, and additional losses in previous years. At December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $28,136,327. We cannot offer any assurance that we will be able to generate sustained or significant future earnings. Our liquidity may be dependent upon amounts available through additional debt or equity financings. We have a history of operating losses and negative cash flow from operating activities. As such, we have utilized funds from offerings of our equity securities and line of credit to fund our operations. We have taken steps to improve our overall liquidity and believe we have sufficient liquidity to meet our needs for the next twelve months. However, in the event our cash flow from operating activities is insufficient to meet our requirements, we may be forced either to secure a line of credit or seek additional equity financing. The sale of additional securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. There can be no assurance that such financing would be available or, if available, that such financing could be obtained upon terms acceptable to us. Our foreign operations are essential to our economic success and are subject to various unique risks. Our future operations and earnings will depend to a large extent on the results of our international operations and our ability to maintain a continuous supply of basic wound care products from our operations in China and suppliers in China and Mexico. While we do not envision any adverse change to our international operations or suppliers, adverse changes to these operations, as a result of political, governmental, regulatory, economic, exchange rate, labor, logistical or other factors, could have a material adverse effect on our future operating results. The rate of reimbursement for the purchase of our products by government and private insurance is subject to change. Sales of several of our wound care products depend partly on the ability of our customers to obtain reimbursement for the cost of our products from government health administration agencies such as Medicare and Medicaid. Both government health administration agencies and private insurance firms continuously seek to reduce healthcare costs. Our ability to commercialize our products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of such products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved medical products. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of healthcare services to contain or reduce costs of healthcare may adversely affect: 8 •Our ability to set a price we believe is fair for our products; •Our ability to generate revenues or achieve or maintain profitability; and •The availability to us of capital. Payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement, particularly for new therapeutic products or where payors perceive that the target indication of the new product is well served by existing drugs or other treatments. Accordingly, even if coverage and reimbursement are provided, market acceptance of our products would be adversely affected if the amount of coverage and/or reimbursement available for the use of our products proved to be unprofitable for healthcare providers or less profitable than alternative treatments. There have been federal and state legislation changes which has subjected the pricing of healthcare goods and services to government control and made other changes to the United States healthcare system. While we cannot predict the outcome of current or future legislation, we anticipate, particularly given the recent enactment of healthcare reform legislation that Congress and state legislatures will continue to introduce initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of healthcare. In addition, in certain foreign markets the pricing of drugs is subject to government control and reimbursement may in some cases be unavailable or insufficient. It is uncertain if future legislation, whether domestic or abroad, will be adopted that might affect our products. It is also uncertain what actions federal, state or private payors for healthcare treatment and services may take in response to any such healthcare reform proposals or legislation. Any such healthcare reforms could have a material and adverse effect on the marketability of any products for which we ultimately receive FDA or other regulatory agency approval or for which we receive government sponsored reimbursements. Medical excise tax enacted into law becomes effective in 2013. President Obama has signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act which imposes, among other things, an annual excise tax of 2.3% on any entity that manufactures or imports medical devices offered for sale in the United States beginning in 2013. Under these provisions, the Congressional Research Service predicts that the total cost to the medical device industry may be up to $20 billion over the next decade. We expect to be subject to this excise tax in the future on our sales of certain medical devices we manufacture, produce or import. We anticipate that all of our sales of medical devices in the United States will be subject to this 2.3% excise tax. The financial impact of this tax on our business is unclear and there can be no assurance that our business will not be materially adversely affected by it. Our success may depend upon our ability to protect our patents and proprietary technology. We own patents, both in the United States and abroad, for several of our products, and rely upon the protection afforded by our patents and trade secrets to protect our technology. Our future success may depend upon our ability to protect our intellectual property. However, the enforcement of intellectual property rights can be both expensive and time consuming. Therefore, we may not be able to devote the resources necessary to prevent infringement of our intellectual property. Also, our competitors may develop or acquire substantially similar technologies without infringing our patents or trade secrets. For these reasons, we cannot be certain that our patents and proprietary technology will provide us with a competitive advantage. Government regulation plays a significant role in our ability to acquire and market products. Government regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration and similar agencies in other countries is a significant factor in the development, manufacturing and marketing of many of our products and in our acquisition or licensing of new products. Complying with government regulations is often time consuming and expensive and may involve delays or actions adversely impacting the marketing and sale of our current or future products. Approximately 40 percent of our products are sourced from third parties. Approximately 40 percent of our products are sourced in raw, semi-finished and finished form directly from third party suppliers. None of these suppliers presently account for more than 10 percent of our sales. We maintain good relations with our third party suppliers. There are several third party suppliers available for each of our products. If a current supplier were unable or unwilling to continue to supply our products, sale of the affected products could be delayed for the period necessary to secure a replacement. 9 The technology utilized in many of our advanced wound care products is licensed from third parties and could become unavailable. Approximately 68 percent of our advanced wound care products utilize technology that we license on an exclusive basis from third parties. These products include Medihoney dressings, Bioguard dressings and MedEfficiency TM total contact casts. The licensing agreements that we have with the owners of these technologies are of limited duration (with the exception of Medihoney, which is in perpetuity) and renewals of the agreements are in the discretion of the licensors. In addition, the maintenance of the license agreements requires that we meet various minimum sales and/or minimum royalty requirements. If we fail to meet the minimum sales or minimum royalty requirements of a given license agreement, there is a possibility that the agreement will be cancelled or not renewed or that our exclusivity under the license agreement will be withdrawn. If any of these events were to occur, our ability to sell the products utilizing the licensed technology could be lost or compromised and our revenues and potential profits could be adversely affected. Competitors could invent products superior to ours and cause our products and technology to become obsolete. The wound and skin care sectors of the medical products industry are characterized by rapidly evolving technology and intense competition. Our competitors currently manufacture and distribute a variety of products that are in many respects comparable to our products. Many suppliers of competing products are considerably larger and have much greater resources than we do. In addition, many specialized products companies have formed collaborations with large, established companies to support research, development and commercialization of wound and skin care products which may be competitive with ours. Academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations are also conducting research activities and may commercialize wound and skin care products on their own or through joint ventures. While we have no specific knowledge of products under development by our competitors, it is possible that these competitors may develop technologies and products that are more effective than any we currently have. If this occurs, any of our products and technology affected by these developments could become obsolete. Although we are insured, any material product liability claims could adversely affect our business. We sell over-the-counter products and medical devices and are exposed to the risk of lawsuits claiming alleged injury caused by our products. Among the grounds for potential claims against us are injuries due to alleged product inefficacy and injuries resulting from infection due to allegedly non-sterile products. Although we carry product liability insurance with limits of $1.0 million per occurrence and $2.0 million aggregate with $10.0 million in umbrella coverage, this insurance may not be adequate to reimburse us for all damages that we could suffer as a result of successful product liability claims. Also, defending against a claim could be time consuming and costly. No material product liability claim has ever been made against us and we are not aware of any pending product liability claims. However, a successful material product liability suit could adversely affect our business. The potential increase in common shares due to the conversion, exercise or vesting of outstanding dilutive securities may have a depressive effect upon the market value of our shares. Up to 4,773,217 shares of our common stock were potentially issuable at December 31, 2011 upon the conversion, exercise or vesting of outstanding convertible preferred stock, warrants, options and restricted stock units (“dilutive securities”). The shares of common stock potentially issuable upon conversion, exercise or vesting of dilutive securities are substantial compared to the 10,577,632 shares of common stock outstanding at December 31, 2011. 10 Earnings per share of common stock may be substantially diluted by the existence of these dilutive securities regardless of whether they are converted, exercised or issued. This dilution of earnings per share could have a depressive effect upon the market value of our common stock. Our stock price has been volatile and this volatility is likely to continue. Historically, the market price of our common stock has been volatile. The high and low stock prices for the years 2007 through 2011 are set forth in the table below: Derma Sciences, Inc. Trading Range – Common Stock Year Low High 2007 $4.64 $11.20 2008 $1.60 $10.80 2009 $1.92 $6.80 2010 $4.40 $9.00 2011 $4.50 $12.72 Events that may affect our common stock price include: •Outcome of DSC 127 development; •Quarter to quarter variations in our operating results; •Changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts; •Changes in interest rates or other general economic conditions; •Changes in market conditions in the wound care industry; •Fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies; •Discussion of us or our stock price by the financial and scientific press and in online investor communities; •Additions or departures of key personnel; •Changes in third party reimbursement policies; •The introduction of new products either by us or by our competitors; and •The loss of a major customer. Although publicly traded securities are subject to price and volume fluctuations, it is likely that our common stock will experience these fluctuations to a greater degree than the securities of more established and better capitalized organizations. We have not paid, and we are unlikely to pay in the near future, cash dividends on our securities. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common or preferred stock and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends by us will depend on our future earnings, financial condition and such other business and economic factors as our management may consider relevant. If members of our management and their affiliates were to exercise all warrants and options held by them, members of management and their affiliates could influence matters that require shareholder approval. The executive officers and directors, together with institutions with which they are affiliated, own substantial amounts of our common stock, together with outstanding options and warrants to purchase our common stock. Depending upon the warrants and options exercised by outside investors, if directors, executive officers and affiliates were to exercise their options and warrants, members of management and their affiliates could obtain effective control of us. As a result, these officers, directors and affiliates would be in a position to significantly influence our strategic direction, the composition of our board of directors and the outcome of fundamental transactions requiring shareholder approval. 11 Our common stock does not have a vigorous trading market and you may not be able to sell your securities when desired. We have a limited active public market for our common shares. We cannot assure you that a more active public market will develop thereby allowing you to sell large quantities of our shares. Consequently, you may not be able to readily liquidate your investment. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 