ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to our Business, Industry and Common Stock We are a biotechnology company in the early stage of development and have only a limited operating history for you to review in evaluating our current business and its prospects. Our focus is directed towards RNAi technology, which is in an early stage of pre-clinical and clinical development and will require substantial further testing. There can be no assurance that our technologies will enable us to discover and develop therapeutic products. All of our product candidates are in early stages of development, have never generated any sales, and will require extensive testing before commercialization. Our RNAi-based product candidates, which are the focus of our business, may require more than five years to bring to market, or may never reach the market. You must consider, based on our limited history, our ability to: • obtain the human and financial resources necessary to develop, test, manufacture and market products; • engage corporate partners to assist in developing, testing, manufacturing and marketing our products; • satisfy the requirements of clinical trial protocols, including patient enrollment; • establish and demonstrate the clinical efficacy and safety of our products; • obtain necessary regulatory approvals; and • market our products to achieve acceptance and use by the medical community in general. We have a history of losses, expect future losses, have a continuing need to raise additional capital, and cannot assure you that we will ever become or remain profitable. We have incurred significant losses and have had negative cash flows from operations since inception. To date, we have dedicated most of our financial resources to research and development. We have financed our operations through sales of equity securities in public offerings, private placements of preferred and common stock, funds 16 Table of Contents received under our collaborative agreements and financing under equipment and tenant improvement loans. We anticipate that based on our existing financial resources and expected revenues from collaborations, our cash resources should be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating and capital requirements into 2007. We will need to raise additional capital through any or all of the following: public or private debt or equity financing, merger or acquisition, new collaborative relationships, new credit facilities and/or other sources. If we raise funds by issuing and selling more stock, your ownership in us will be diluted. We may grant future investors rights superior to those of existing stockholders. In addition, we do not know if additional funding will be available or available on acceptable terms when needed. As of December 31, 2005, our accumulated deficit was approximately $277.1 million. We expect to incur losses for at least the next several years because we plan to spend substantial amounts on research and development of our product candidates, including preclinical studies and clinical trials. Because we must obtain regulatory approval to market our products in the United States and foreign jurisdictions, we cannot predict whether or when we will be permitted to commercialize our products. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to stringent regulation by a wide range of authorities. We cannot predict whether regulatory clearance will be obtained for any product we develop. A pharmaceutical product cannot be marketed in the United States until it has completed rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory clearance process implemented by the Food and Drug Administration, the FDA. Satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years, depends upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product, and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Of particular significance are the requirements covering research and development, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling and promotion of drugs for human use. Before commencing clinical trials in human beings, we must submit and receive approval from the FDA for an investigational new drug, or IND. In addition to the FDA regulations, clinical trials are subject to oversight by institutional review boards at the universities or research institutions where we plan to carry out our clinical trials. The clinical trials: • must be conducted in conformity with the FDA’s good laboratory practice regulations; • must meet requirements for institutional review board oversight; • must meet requirements for informed consent; • must meet requirements for good clinical practices; • are subject to continuing FDA oversight; • may require large numbers of test subjects; and • may be suspended by the FDA or us at any time if it is believed that the subjects participating in these trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in the IND or the conduct of these trials. Before receiving FDA clearance to market a product, we must demonstrate that the product is safe and effective on the patient population that would be treated. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory clearances. In addition, delays or rejections may be encountered based upon additional government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy during the period of product development, clinical trials and FDA regulatory review. Failure to comply with applicable FDA or other applicable regulatory requirements may result in criminal prosecution, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production or injunction, as well as other regulatory action against our potential products or us. Additionally, we have limited experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approval. If regulatory clearance for a product is granted, this clearance will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is demonstrated through clinical trials to be safe and efficacious. We cannot ensure 17 Table of Contents that any compound developed by us, alone or with others, will prove to be safe and efficacious in clinical trials and will meet all the applicable regulatory requirements needed to receive marketing clearance. Outside the United States, our ability to market a product is contingent upon receiving a marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authorities. This foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with FDA clearance described above. We may experience negative results, problems or delays in our clinical trials with Sirna-027, Sirna-034 or other product candidates that could adversely affect our stock price, financial position and our commercial prospects. We are required to do extensive testing in animal models with our product candidates before we can be approved by the FDA to initiate clinical trials in humans. Even so we cannot be sure that our product candidates will be safely tolerated by humans or be efficacious. Therefore, as our clinical trials progress we will closely monitor results for both safety and efficacy. Results from our early stage clinical trials are based on a limited number of patients and may, upon review, be revised or negated by authorities or by later stage clinical trials. Historically, the results from preclinical testing and early clinical trials have often not been predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. A number of drug candidates have shown promising results in clinical trials, but subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and efficacy data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. We recently announced positive interim Phase 1 clinical trial data for Sirna-027, our product candidate for the treatment of AMD, and preclinical efficacy data for Sirna-034 in a non-human primate model for the treatment of the Hepatitis C virus; however, such data may not be indicative of future results. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, we may encounter regulatory delays or rejections as a result of many factors, including: changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development; delays in obtaining regulatory approvals to commence a study; lack of efficacy during clinical trials; or unforeseen safety issues. Problems with our clinical trials may result in a decline in our stock price, the loss of existing corporate partners and future potential corporate partnership opportunities and an inability to raise capital when needed which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. To develop, market or sell RNAi-based drugs, we may need to find partners for collaboration. Engaging corporate partners and other third parties to help develop, manufacture and market our RNAi-based products may be desirable or necessary for our success. Generally, if a partner were to terminate its funding of the development of a particular product candidate from our collaboration, we may not have the right or resources to continue development of that product candidate on our own. Similarly, if we are unable to attract partners for particular product candidates, then we may be unable to develop those product candidates. In addition, there are many aspects of our collaborations that have been and will continue to be outside of our control, including: • our ability to find and enter into agreements with appropriate collaborators for our RNAi-based product candidates; • the pace of development of our product candidates, including the achievement of performance milestones; • development by our collaborators of competing technologies or products; • exercise by our collaborators of marketing or manufacturing rights; and • the loss of our rights to products or the profits from our products if we are unable to fund our share of development costs. We currently lack sales and marketing experience and may need to rely upon third parties to market our products which will result in a loss of control over the marketing process. These third parties, if engaged, may have significant control over important aspects of the commercialization of our products, including market identification, marketing methods, pricing, sales force recruitment and management and promotional activities. We may be unable to control the actions of these third parties. We may be unable to make or maintain arrangements with third parties to perform these activities on favorable terms. 18 Table of Contents Our strategic alliance with Allergan will seek to advance our AMD treatment into Phase 2 clinical trials. However, there can be no assurances that we will recognize additional revenue under the agreement, that the AMD or other ophthalmic treatment will result in an FDA-approved drug, or that we will be able to engage other partners. A majority of our patent applications have not yet been approved. We do not know which of these applications will result in issued patents. Additionally, patent proceedings and litigation could result in substantial costs and delays in obtaining and enforcing our patent rights. The ultimate result of any patent litigation could be the loss of some or all protection for the patent involved or the loss of ability to pursue business opportunities. We may also decide to oppose or challenge third party patents. We have filed patent applications on various aspects of RNAi technology, a majority of which have not yet been approved. We cannot guarantee that any patents will issue from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us or that such patents, if issued, will have scope sufficient to prevent competing products. In addition, the scope of our present or future patents may not be sufficiently broad to prevent competitive products. We have received issuance of patents covering various aspects of basic RNA and other oligonucleotide technology, and we have filed patent applications for other technology improvements and modifications that have not yet been approved. We are involved in a re-examination proceeding involving one of our patents in the United States that relates to oligonucleotides. Additionally, we have filed documents in opposition to three RNA interference-related European patents and one RNA-interference-related Australian patent granted to potential competitors. Additionally, we cannot be certain that the patents and patent applications that we own or have licensed represent named inventors or assignees who were the first to invent or the first to file patent applications, or that those persons are proper assignees for these inventions. The manufacture, use or sale of our products may infringe on the patent rights of others. We may not have identified all United States and foreign patents and patent applications that pose a risk of infringement. We may be forced to in-license or litigate if an intellectual property dispute arises. If we infringe or are alleged to have infringed another party’s patent rights, we may be required to seek a license, defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the patents in court. Patent litigation is costly, time consuming and unpredictable. We may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion. In addition, if we do not obtain a license, do not successfully defend an infringement action, or are unable to have infringed patents declared invalid, we may: • incur substantial monetary damages; • encounter significant delays in marketing our products; • be unable to conduct or participate in the manufacture, use or sale of products or methods of treatment requiring licenses; • lose patent protection for our inventions and products; or • find our patents are unenforceable, invalid, or have a reduced scope of protection. In addition, we regularly enter into agreements to license technologies and patent rights. Should we fail to comply with the terms of those license agreements, including payment of any required maintenance fees or royalties, or should the licensors fail to maintain their licensed interest in the licensed patents, we could lose the rights to those technologies and patents. We are aware of a number of issued patents and patent applications that are owned by third parties and that purport to cover chemically modified oligonucleotides, including siRNAs, as well as their manufacture and use. We have investigated the breadth and validity of these patents to determine their impact upon our programs in the field of RNAi. Based on our review of these patents and, in some instances, the advice of outside patent counsel, we believe that our technology does not infringe any valid claims of such patents and that these patents are not likely to impede the advancement of our programs. There can be no assurance, however, that third parties will not assert 19 Table of Contents infringement claims against our programs with respect to these patents or otherwise, or that any such assertions will not result in costly litigation or require us to obtain a license to intellectual property rights of such parties. There can be no assurance that any such licenses would be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Parties making such claims may be able to obtain injunctive relief that could effectively block our ability to further develop or commercialize our products in the United States and abroad and could result in the award of substantial damages. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any such license could substantially harm us. Litigation, regardless of outcome, could result in substantial cost to and a diversion of efforts by us. Disclosure of our trade secrets could reduce our competitiveness. Because trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary information are critical to our business, we attempt to protect our trade secrets by entering into confidentiality agreements with third parties, employees and consultants. However, these agreements can be breached and, if they are, there may not be an adequate remedy available to us. In addition, third parties may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights. We are moving our headquarters from Colorado to California, and this move could reduce employee retention and efficiency and could add to our expenses. In April 2005, we initiated the move of our headquarters from Boulder, Colorado to San Francisco, California, which we expect to complete in 2006. For the foreseeable future, our management and research and development operations will be based in the San Francisco Bay Area, while our manufacturing and other supporting operations continue to be based in Boulder, Colorado. This split location could reduce employee retention, morale, or efficiency or impair our focus. While we believe that our move to the Bay Area will facilitate recruiting top talent to the Company, some of our current Boulder, Colorado employees who may be required to relocate may be unwilling or unable to do so and we could lose talented personnel that are hard to replace. The cost of living in the San Francisco Bay Area is substantially higher than in Boulder, Colorado, which could make retention of existing employees and recruiting of new employees more difficult. It is possible that costs of additional facilities in California will be significantly higher than we estimate. The move could potentially add significantly to our real estate, payroll and other expenses. Our success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We are highly dependant on qualified personnel in highly specialized technological fields. We also depend on academic collaborators for each of our research and development programs. The loss of any of our key employees or academic collaborators could delay our discovery research program and the development and commercialization of our product candidates or result in termination of them in their entirety. Our future success also will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain other highly qualified scientific, technical and management personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical testing, governmental regulation and commercialization. We face competition for personnel from other companies, universities, public and private research institutions, government entities and other organizations. We also rely on consultants, collaborators and advisors to assist us in formulating and conducting our research. All of our consultants, collaborators and advisors are employed by other organizations or are self-employed and may have commitments to or consulting contracts with other entities that may limit their ability to contribute to our company. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist activity and other events beyond our control, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business. Businesses in California have, in the past, been subject to electrical blackouts as a result of a shortage of available electrical power. Future blackouts could disrupt the operations of our facilities. In addition, we do not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate us for actual losses from interruption of our business that may occur, and any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are vulnerable to a major earthquake and other natural calamities. Our California operations are located in a 20 Table of Contents seismically active region. We have not undertaken a systematic analysis of the potential consequences to our business and financial results from a major earthquake and do not have a recovery plan for fire, earthquake, power loss, terrorist activity or similar disasters. We are unable to predict the effects of any such event, but the effects could be seriously harmful to our business. Our competitors may develop and market drugs that are more effective, safer, easier to use, or less expensive than our product candidates. The pharmaceutical market is highly competitive. Many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have developed or are developing products that will compete with products we are developing. Multiple significant competitors are working on, or already marketing drugs, for the same indications as Sirna-027, Sirna-034, dermatology, diabetes, chronic hepatitis B, Huntington’s disease, oncology and asthma. It is possible that our competitors will develop and market products that are more effective, safer, easier to use, or less expensive, than our future products, or will render our products obsolete. It is also possible that our competitors will commercialize competing products before any of our product candidates are approved and marketed. We expect that competition from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and public and private research institutions will increase. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, research and other resources than we do. We may not have the financial resources, technical and research expertise or marketing, distribution or support capabilities to compete successfully. Our success may depend on third party reimbursement of patients’ costs for our products that could result in price pressure or reduced demand for our products. Our ability to market products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which various third parties are willing to reimburse patients for the costs of our products and related treatments. These third parties include government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations. Third party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Accordingly, if less costly drugs are available, third party payors may not authorize or may limit reimbursement for our products, even if our products are safer or more effective than the alternatives. In addition, the trend toward managed healthcare and government insurance programs could result in lower prices and reduced demand for our products. Cost containment measures instituted by healthcare providers and any general healthcare reform could affect our ability to sell our products and may have a material adverse effect on us. We cannot predict the effect of future legislation or regulation concerning the healthcare industry and third party coverage and reimbursement on our business. We may in the future be exposed to product liability claims, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Clinical trials or marketing of any of our potential products may expose us to liability claims resulting from the use of our products. These claims might be made by clinical trial participants and associated parties, consumers, health care providers or sellers of our products. We may not be able to maintain insurance or obtain sufficient coverage at a reasonable cost, given the increasing cost of insurance in today’s insurance market. Our inability to maintain insurance at an acceptable cost, or at all, could result in a breach of terms of our product license agreements or could prevent or inhibit the clinical testing or commercialization of our products or otherwise affect our financial condition. A claim, particularly resulting from a clinical trial or a product recall could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Our products require materials that may not be readily available or cost effective, which may reduce our competitiveness or reduce our profitability. The products we are developing are new chemical entities that are not yet available in commercial quantities. Raw materials necessary for the manufacture of our products may not be available in sufficient quantities or at a reasonable cost in the future. Therefore, our products may not be available at a reasonable cost in the future. 21 Table of Contents Our common stock has limited trading volume and a history of volatility, which could impair your investment. You may be unable to sell securities you purchase from us at the time or price desired. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated dramatically in recent years. The trading price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate substantially due to: • our ability to raise additional funds; • clinical trials of products; • timing or denial by the FDA of clinical trial protocols or marketing applications; • changes in the status of our corporate collaborative agreements; • research activities, technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights; • quarterly variations in our operating results; • changes in earnings estimates by market research analysts; • concentrated ownership interest of our investors; • purchases or sales of our stock by our executive officers, directors or substantial holders of our common stock; • securities class actions or other litigation; and • changes in government regulations. These fluctuations are not necessarily related to our operating performance. Additionally, future sales of our equity securities may dilute our shareholders or cause our stock price to fluctuate. As a result, the value of your shares could vary significantly from time to time. The historical trading volume of our common stock has been limited. We plan to use potential future operating losses and our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards to offset taxable income from operations. However, our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards are limited as a result of previous issuances of equity securities and could be further limited as a result of potential future issuances of equity securities. We plan to use our current year operating losses to offset taxable income from operations or corporate collaborations. To the extent that our taxable income exceeds any current year operating losses, we plan to use our net operating loss carryforwards to offset income that would otherwise be taxable. The Tax Reform Act of 1986 contains provisions that limit the utilization of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards if there has been a change of ownership, as described in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Such a change of ownership may limit the utilization of our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, and could have been triggered by our initial public offering or by subsequent sales of securities by us or our shareholders. As a result of the private placement of equity securities with the Sprout Group, Venrock Associates, Oxford Bioscience Partners IV, TVM V Life Science Ventures GmbH & Co. KG and Granite Global Ventures in April 2003, which we consider a change of ownership for tax purposes, we believe that there are substantial limitations on the utilization of our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Also, our use of federal net operating loss carryforwards could be limited in the future depending upon the timing and amount of additional equity securities that we might potentially issue. Our state net operating loss carryforwards may be similarly limited. Concentration of ownership of our common stock may give certain stockholders significant influence over our business. A small number of investors own a significant number of shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2005, entities affiliated with Venrock Associates, The Sprout Group and Oxford Bioscience Partners, three of our 22 Table of Contents largest investors, collectively own approximately 44% of our outstanding common stock. Three of eight members of our Board of Directors are affiliated with these investors and serve on our audit committee, nominating and corporate governance committee and compensation committee. If the directors affiliated with these investors were to act in concert, they could exercise significant influence over the votes of the Board of Directors and the nominating and corporate governance committee, although they have not indicated any present intent to do so. If these investors were to act in concert, their concentration of stock ownership could allow them to exercise significant control over our strategic decisions and block, delay or substantially influence all matters requiring shareholder approval, such as the election of directors, amendment of our charter documents and approval of significant corporate transactions such as a merger or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets. The interests of these investors may conflict with the interests of other holders of our common stock with regard to such matters. Furthermore, this concentration of ownership of our common stock could allow these shareholders to delay, deter or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us at a premium over the then-current market price of our common stock, which could result in a decrease in our stock price. Both our charter documents and Delaware law have anti-takeover provisions that may discourage transactions involving actual or potential changes of control at premium prices. Our corporate documents and provisions of Delaware law applicable to us include provisions that discourage change of control transactions. For example, our charter documents authorize our board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval and to set the rights, preferences and other designations of preferred stock, including the voting rights, at its discretion. In addition, we are subject to provisions of Delaware General Corporation Law that may make some business combinations more difficult. As a result, transactions that otherwise could involve a premium over prevailing market prices to holders of our common stock may be discouraged or may be more difficult for us to effect as compared to companies organized in other jurisdictions. Recent accounting pronouncements will impact our future results of operations. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued a revision of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, or SFAS 123R, which requires all share-based payments to employees and directors, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the income statement based on their values. We expect to calculate the value of share-based payments under SFAS 123R on a basis substantially consistent with the fair value approach of SFAS 123. We will adopt SFAS 123R in our fiscal quarter beginning January 1, 2006, using the modified prospective method. We expect the adoption of SFAS 123R will have a material impact on our results of operations in that fiscal quarter and in each subsequent quarter, although it will have no impact on our overall liquidity. We cannot reasonably estimate the impact of adoption because it will depend on levels of share-based payments granted in the future as well as certain assumptions that can materially affect the calculation of the value of share-based payments to employees and directors. However, had we adopted SFAS 123R in prior periods, the impact of the standard would have approximated the impact of SFAS 123 as described in the disclosure of pro forma net loss and pro forma loss net per common share in Note 1 of Notes to Financial Statements included under Item 15(a)(1) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The adoption of SFAS 123R may affect the way we compensate our employees or may cause other changes in the way we conduct our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 