Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Language Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. This report contains “forward looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include the discussion of our business strategies and expectations concerning future operations, margins, profitability, liquidity and capital resources. In addition, in certain portions of this report, the words “anticipate,” “project,” “believe,” “estimate,” “may,” “will,” “expect,” “plan” and “intend” and similar expressions, as they relate to us or our management, are intended to identify forward looking statements. These forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward looking statements. These statements are based upon the current expectations and assumptions of, and on information available to, our management. Further, investors are cautioned that, unless required by law, we do not assume any obligation to update forward-looking statements based on unanticipated events or changed expectations. In addition to specific factors that may be described in connection with any particular forward-looking statement, factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward looking statements include (but are not limited to) the following: Our business is sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending, which may result from the recent downturn in the U.S. economy. Consumer demand for luxury or perceived luxury goods, including craft beer, are sensitive to downturns in the economy and the corresponding impact on discretionary spending. Changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by the factors such as perceived or actual general economic conditions, job losses and the resultant rising unemployment rate, the current housing crisis, the current credit crisis, perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth, the current U.S. economic recession and changes in consumer confidence in the economy, could significantly reduce customer demand for craft beer in general, and the products we offer specifically. Certain of our core markets, particularly in the West, have been harder hit by the economic recession, with job loss and unemployment rates in excess of the national averages. Furthermore, any of these factors may cause consumers to substitute our products with the fuller-flavored national brands or other more affordable, although lower quality, alternatives available to the consumers. In either event, this would likely have a significant negative impact on our operating results. We are partially capitalized with long-term debt. As of December 31, 2008, we have approximately $33.2 million in outstanding borrowed debt, principally financed by one lender. The terms of the loan agreement require that we meet certain financial covenants. Although we expect to meet these covenants in the future, we were unable to meet the covenants associated with our loan agreement in the past, requiring us to seek modification of the agreement and the associated covenants with our lenders. We may not be able to generate financial results sufficient to meet the financial covenant measurements, which would cause us to be in violation of the loan agreement. Failure to meet the covenants required by the loan agreement is an event of default and, at its option, the lender could deny a request for a waiver and declare the entire outstanding loan balance immediately due and payable. In such a case, we would seek to refinance the loan with one or more lenders, potentially at less desirable terms. Given the current economic environment and the tightening of lending 18 Table of Contents standards by many financial institutions, including some of the banks that we might seek credit from, there can be no guarantee that additional financing would be available at commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We are dependent upon our continuing relationship with A-B. Substantially all of our products are sold and distributed through A-B. If our relationship with A-B deteriorates, distribution of our products will suffer significant disruption and such event will have a long-term severe negative impact on our sales and results of operations, as it would be extremely difficult to rebuild a distribution network. In such an event, we would be faced with finding another national distribution partner similar to A-B, and entering into a complex distribution arrangement with that entity, or negotiating separate distribution agreements with individual distributors throughout the United States. Currently, we distribute our product through a network of more than 540 independent wholesale distributors, most of whom are geographically contiguous and independently owned and operated, and 12 branches owned and operated by A-B. If we had to negotiate separate agreements with individual distributors, such an undertaking would require a significant amount of time to complete, during which our products would not be distributed. It would also be extremely difficult for us to build a distribution network as seamless and contiguous as the one we currently enjoy through A-B. Additionally, we would need to raise significant capital to fund the development of a new distribution network and continue operations. There can be no guarantee that financing would be available when needed, or that any such financing would be on commercially reasonable terms. Given the difficulty that we would face if we needed to rebuild our distribution network, if the current distribution arrangement with A-B were to be terminated, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. We believe that the benefits of the relationship that we have enjoyed with A-B, in particular distribution and material cost efficiencies, have offset the costs associated with the relationship. However, there can be no assurance that these costs will not have a negative impact on our sales revenues and results of operations. A-B has introduced products and may in the future introduce additional new products or form relationships with other companies with products that compete with our products. Introduction of and support by A-B of these competing products may reduce wholesaler attention and financial resources committed to our products. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete in the marketplace against other A-B supported products. Such an increase in competition could cause our sales and results of operations to be adversely affected. We may be unable to successfully integrate our operations and realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Merger. We acquired Widmer with the expectation that, among other things, we would be able to capitalize on the opportunities for synergies in expanding the breweries and efficiently utilizing the available production capacity, implementing a national sales strategy and reducing costs associated with duplicate functions and to become a stronger and more competitive company. We have achieved some of these benefits; however, there are some benefits that we have not yet achieved and hope to achieve in the future. There can be no assurance that these synergies will be realized within the time periods contemplated or that they will be realized at all. There also can be no assurance that our integration with Widmer will result in the realization of the full benefits that we anticipated. Our cost saving initiatives may not generate sufficient liquidity. Management has focused aggressively on identifying areas within the Company that can yield significant cost savings, whether driven by the synergies of the Merger and integration or generated by general cost-reduction programs, and has executed appropriate measures to secure these savings. The Company has been implementing these cost savings initiatives since the Merger and will continue to do so into 2009. Management believes that the Company can meet its normal cash flow requirements and comply with the terms of its loan agreement, but there is no assurance that it can do so. The failure to satisfy our working capital requirements could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and future operations. Our agreements with A-B contain limitations on our ability to engage in or reject certain transactions, including acquisitions and changes of control. The amended Exchange Agreement requires us to obtain the consent of A-B prior to taking certain actions, or to offer to A-B a right of first refusal, including the following: • issuing equity securities; • acquiring or selling assets or stock; 19 Table of Contents • amending our articles of incorporation or bylaws; • granting board representation rights to others; • entering into certain transactions with affiliates; • distributing our products in the United States other than through A-B or as provided in the amended distribution agreement with A-B; • distributing or licensing the production of any malt beverage product in any country outside of the United States; or • voluntarily delisting or terminating our listing on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Additionally, A-B has the right to terminate the amended A-B Distribution Agreement if any competitor of A-B acquires more than 10% of our outstanding common stock. Further, if the amended A-B Distribution Agreement is terminated, A-B has the right to solicit and negotiate offers from third parties to purchase all or substantially all of our assets or securities or to enter into a merger or consolidation transaction with us and the right to cause the board of directors to consider any such offer. The practical effect of the foregoing restrictions is to grant A-B the ability to veto certain transactions that management may believe to be in the best interest of our shareholders, including our expansion through acquisitions of other craft brewers or new brands, mergers with other brewing companies or our distribution of our products outside the United States. As a result, our results of operations and the trading price of our common stock may be adversely affected. A-B has significant control and influence over us. As of December 31, 2008, A-B owns approximately 35.8% of our outstanding common stock and, under the amended Exchange Agreement, has the right to appoint two designees to our board of directors and to observe the conduct of all board committees. As a result, A-B is able to exercise significant control and influence over us and matters requiring approval of our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as another merger or other sale of our assets. This could limit the ability of other shareholders to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control of us. In addition, A-B may have actual or potential interests that diverge from the rest of our shareholders. The securities markets may also react unfavorably to A-B’s ability to influence certain matters involving us, which could have a negative impact on the trading price of our common stock. We do not know what impact, if any, the acquisition of Anheuser-Busch by InBev (now Anheuser-Busch Inbev) will have on our business. On November 18, 2008, InBev completed the acquisition of the parent company of A-B and changed the acquiring entity’s name to Anheuser-Busch Inbev to reflect the combined operations. Anheuser-Busch Inbev is the leading global brewer, one of the world’s top five consumer products companies, headquartered in Leuven, Belgium. Anheuser-Busch InBev manages a portfolio of over 200 brands that includes global flagship brands Stella Artois and Beck’s, in addition to A-B’s Budweiser. As mentioned previously, A-B has a significant ownership stake in the Company. We do not know what impact, if any, the acquisition of A-B by Anheuser-Busch InBev will have on our distribution or ownership relationships with A-B. We are dependent on our distributors for the sale of our products. Although substantially all of our products are sold and distributed through A-B, we continue to rely heavily on distributors, most of which are independent wholesalers, for the sale of our products to retailers. Any disruption in the ability of the wholesalers, A-B, or us to distribute products efficiently due to any significant operational problems, such as wide-spread labor union strikes, the loss of a major wholesaler as a customer or the termination of the distribution relationship with A-B, could hinder our ability to get our products to retailers and could have a material adverse impact on our sales and results of operations. Increased competition could adversely affect sales and results of operations. We compete in the highly competitive craft brewing market as well as in the much larger specialty beer market, which encompasses producers of import beers, major national brewers that produce fuller-flavored products, and large spirit companies and national brewers that produce flavored alcohol beverages. Beyond the beer market, craft 20 Table of Contents brewers have also faced competition from producers of wines and spirits. Increasing competition could cause our future sales and results of operations to be adversely affected. Our rate of future growth in sales revenues is volatile and could be negative. We have historically operated with little or no backlog and, therefore, our ability to predict sales for future periods is limited. Future price promotions to generate demand for our products may be unsuccessful. The prices that we charge in the future for our products may decrease from historical levels, depending on competitive factors in various markets. In order to stimulate demand for our products, we participate in price promotions with wholesalers and retail customers in most markets. The number of markets in which we choose to participate in price promotions and the frequency of such promotions may increase in the future. There can be no assurance, however, that these price promotions will be successful in increasing demand for our products. Operating breweries at production levels substantially below their current designed capacities could negatively impact our gross margins. At December 31, 2008, the annual working capacity of our breweries totaled approximately 797,000 barrels. Due to many factors, including seasonality, production schedules of various draft products and bottled products and packages, and expected production losses, actual production capacity will always be less than working capacity. We believe that capacity utilization of the breweries will fluctuate throughout the year, and even though we expect that capacity of our breweries will be efficiently utilized during periods when our sales are strongest, there likely will be periods when the capacity utilization will be lower. If we are unable to achieve significant sales growth, the resulting excess capacity and unabsorbed overhead will have an adverse effect on our gross margins, operating cash flows and overall financial performance. We will periodically evaluate whether we expect to recover the costs of our production facilities over the course of their useful lives. If facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these long-lived assets may be impaired, an evaluation of recoverability will be performed in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, by comparing the carrying value of the assets to projected future undiscounted cash flows along with other quantitative and qualitative analyses. If we determine that the carrying value of such assets does not appear to be recoverable, we will recognize an impairment loss by a charge against current operations. Due to our concentration of sales in the Pacific Northwest and California, our results of operations and financial condition may be subject to fluctuations in regional economic conditions. A significant portion of our sales have been in the Pacific Northwest and California and, consequently, business may be adversely affected by changes in economic and business conditions nationally and specifically within these areas. In 2008, approximately one third of beer shipped by the Company was to wholesalers located in Oregon and Washington. Shipments to California wholesalers represented approximately another one quarter of the Company’s total shipments, resulting in a total concentration approaching 60% in these three western states. We also believe these regions are among the most competitive craft beer markets in the United States, both in terms of number of market participants and consumer awareness. The Pacific Northwest and California offer significant competition to our products, not only from other craft brewers but also from the increasing wine market and from flavored alcohol beverages. This intense competition is magnified because certain of our brands are viewed as being relatively mature. The craft beer business is seasonal in nature, and we are likely to experience fluctuations in results of operations and financial condition. Sales of craft beer products are somewhat seasonal, with the first and fourth quarters historically being the slowest and the rest of the year generating stronger sales. As well, our sales volume may also be affected by weather conditions. Therefore, the results for any quarter may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year. If an adverse event such as a regional economic downturn or poor weather conditions should occur during the second and third quarters, the adverse impact to our revenues would likely be greater as a result of the seasonal business. Changes in consumer preferences or public attitudes about our products could reduce demand. If consumers were unwilling to accept our products or if general consumer trends caused a decrease in the demand for beer, including craft beer, it would adversely impact our sales and results of operations. If the flavored alcohol beverage market, the wine market, or the spirits market continues to grow, this could draw consumers away from our products and have an adverse effect on sales and results of operations. Further, the 21 Table of Contents alcoholic beverage industry has become the subject of considerable societal and political attention in recent years due to increasing public concern over alcohol-related social problems, including drunk driving, underage drinking and health consequences from the misuse of alcohol. If beer consumption in general were to fall out of favor among domestic consumers, or if the domestic beer industry were subjected to significant additional governmental regulation, our operations could be adversely affected. We are dependent upon the services of our key personnel. If we lose the services of any members of senior management or key personnel for any reason, we may be unable to replace them with qualified personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Additionally, the loss of Terry Michaelson as our chief executive officer, and the failure to find a replacement satisfactory to A-B, would be a default under the amended A-B Distribution Agreement. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our executive officers. Our gross margin may fluctuate. Future gross margin may fluctuate and even decline as a result of many factors, including the level of fixed and semi variable operating costs, level of production at our breweries in relation to current production capacity, availability and prices of raw materials and packaging materials, sales mix between draft and bottled product sales, sales mix of various bottled product packages, and rates charged for freight and federal or state excise taxes. Our high level of fixed and semi variable operating costs causes our gross margin to be especially sensitive to relatively small increases or decreases in sales volume. We are subject to governmental regulations affecting our breweries and pubs; the costs of complying with governmental regulations, or our failure to comply with such regulations, could affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our breweries and pubs are subject to licensing and regulation by a number of governmental authorities, including the TTB, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, state alcohol regulatory agencies in the states in which we sell our products, and state and local health, sanitation, safety, fire and environmental agencies. Failure to comply with applicable federal, state or local regulations could result in limitations on our ability to conduct business. TTB permits can be revoked for failure to pay taxes, to keep proper accounts, to pay fees, to bond premises, or to abide by federal alcoholic beverage production and distribution regulations, or if holders of 10% or more of our common stock are found to be of questionable character. TTB permits are also required in connection with establishing a commercial brewery, expanding or modifying existing brewing operations, entering into a contract brewing arrangement, and entering into an alternating proprietorship agreement, such as our arrangement with Kona. Other permits or licenses could be revoked if we fail to comply with the terms of such permits or licenses, and additional permits or licenses could be required in the future for existing or expanded operations. Because our sales objective and growth plans may rely on any one of these approaches, if licenses, permits or approvals necessary for our brewery or pub operations were unavailable or unduly delayed, or if any permits or licenses that we hold were to be revoked, our ability to conduct business could be substantially and adversely affected. Management believes that the Company currently has all of the licenses, permits and approvals required for its current operations. However, the Company does business in almost every state with its products being distributed though the A-B distribution network, and for many of these states, relies on the licensing, permitting and approvals maintained by A-B. If a state or a number of states required the Company to obtain its own licensing, permitting or approvals to operate within the state’s boundaries, a combination of events may occur, including a disruption of sales or significant increases in compliance costs. If licenses, permits or approvals not previously required for the sale of the Company’s malt beverage products were to be suddenly required, the Company’s ability to conduct its business could be substantially and adversely affected. An increase in excise taxes could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The U.S. federal government currently levies an excise tax of $18 per barrel on beer sold for consumption in the United States; however, brewers that produce less than two million barrels annually at taxed at $7 per barrel on the first 60,000 barrels shipped, with the remainder of the shipments taxed at the normal rate. While we are not aware of any plans by the federal government to reduce or eliminate this benefit to small brewers, any such reduction in a material amount could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we would lose the benefit of this rate structure if our annual production exceeds the two million barrel threshold. Certain states also levy excise taxes on alcoholic beverages, which have also 22 Table of Contents been subject to change. It is possible that excise taxes will be increased in the future by either the federal government or any state government or both. In the past, increases in excise taxes on alcoholic beverages have been considered in connection with various governmental budget-balancing or funding proposals. Due in part to the economic recession and the follow-on effect on state budgets, a number of states are proposing legislation, including a key market in the state of Oregon, which would lead to significant increases in the excise tax rate on alcoholic beverages for their states. Any such increases in excise taxes, if enacted, would adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Changes in state laws regarding distribution arrangements may adversely impact our operations. In 2006, the Washington state legislature enacted legislation removing the long-standing requirement that small producers of wine and beer distribute their products through wholesale distributors, thus permitting these small producers to distribute their products directly to retailers. The law further provides that any brewery that produces more than 2,500 barrels annually may distribute its products directly to retailers, if its distribution facilities are physically separate and distinct from its production facilities. The legislation stipulates that prices charged by a brewery must be uniform for all distributors and retailers, but does not mandate the price retailers may charge consumers. Our operations will continue to be substantially impacted by the Washington state regulatory environment, and while it is difficult to predict what impact, if any, this law will have, the beer and wine market is likely to experience an increase in competition that could cause future sales and results of operations to be adversely affected. This law may also impact the financial stability of Washington state wholesalers on which we rely. Other states in which we have a significance sales presence may enact similar legislation, which is likely to have the same or similar effect on the competitive environment for those states. An increase in the competitive environment in those states could have an adverse effect on our future sales and results of operations. We may experience a shortage of kegs necessary to distribute draft beer. We distribute our draft beer in kegs that are owned by us as well as leased from a third-party vendor. During periods when we experience stronger sales, we may need to rely on kegs leased from A-B and the third-party vendor to address the additional demand. If shipments of draft beer increase, we may experience a shortage of available kegs to fill sales orders. If we cannot meet our keg requirements through either lease or purchase, we may be required to delay some draft shipments. Such delays could have an adverse impact on sales and relationships with wholesalers and A-B. As well, we may decide to pursue other alternatives for leasing or purchasing kegs. There is no assurance, though, that we will be successful in securing additional kegs. Our key raw materials may continue to increase in cost and adequate supplies may become even more difficult to secure. According to industry and media sources, the cost of barley, wheat and hops, all primary ingredients in our products, have increased significantly in the prior two years. Media sources explain that the cost of barley increased 48% from August 2006 through June 2007, largely driven by a lower supply of barley as farmers shifted their focus to growing corn, a key component of biofuels. The beer industry appears to also be experiencing a decline in the supply of hops, driven by a number of factors: excess supply in the 1990s led some growers to switch to more lucrative crops, resulting in an estimated 40% decrease in worldwide hop-growing acreage; poor weather in eastern Europe and Germany caused substantial hops crop losses in 2007; hops crop production in England has declined approximately 85% since the mid-1970s; and 2007 U.S., New Zealand, and Australia hops crop yields were only average. Wheat exports have increased by 30% because of the weak U.S. dollar and poor worldwide harvests, leading to U.S. supplies of wheat that are at the lowest levels in 60 years. While we have historically utilized fixed price contracts to secure adequate supplies of key raw materials, including barley, wheat and hops, recent fixed price contracts reflect current market pricing that is significantly higher than historical pricing. If we experience difficulty in securing our key raw materials or continue to experience increases in the cost of these materials, it would adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Loss of income tax benefits could negatively impact our results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, our deferred tax assets were primarily comprised of federal net operating losses (“NOLs”) of $29.1 million, or $9.9 million tax-effected; state NOL carryforwards of $299,000 tax-effected; and federal and state alternative 23 Table of Contents minimum tax credit carryforwards of $183,000 tax effected. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the existence of, or generation of, taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. As of December 31, 2008, we recorded a valuation allowance of $1.0 million against certain of our deferred tax assets based on our assessment that it was more likely than not that these deferred tax assets would not be realized. To the extent that we continue to generate NOLs in the future, or otherwise are unable to generate adequate taxable income in future periods, we may be unable to recognize additional tax benefits. In addition, we may be required to record an increase to the valuation allowance to provide for other deferred tax assets in the event that our assessment is that they are more likely than not to not be realized. In conjunction with the Merger, we reviewed Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, which can limit the use of NOLs in instances where there has been a change in ownership of greater than 50% of the stock owned by one or more shareholders holding five percent or more of the outstanding stock, and do not believe that Section 382 impacts our ability to utilize the NOLs in the future. While we are not aware of any plans by the federal or state governments to amend the rules regarding utilization of NOLs, any such modification could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our common stock could be de-listed from the NASDAQ Global Market if our stock price were to trade below $1.00 per share for an extended period of time. Since the beginning of 2009, our stock price has been trading in a range from $0.86 to $1.27 per share. Under NASDAQ’s Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5), (“Rule”) any Company whose stock has a closing bid price less than $1.00 for 30 consecutive days may be subject to a de-listing proceeding instigated by the NASDAQ. On October 16, 2008, NASDAQ announced that it had suspended the enforcement of the Rule until January 19, 2009, and then on December 23, 2008, NASDAQ announced the suspension of enforcement of this rule until April 20, 2009. In the event that we receive notice that our common stock is being subjected to de-listing procedures from the NASDAQ Global Market, NASDAQ rules permit us to appeal any de-listing determination by the NASDAQ staff to a NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel. Alternatively, NASDAQ may permit us to transfer the listing of our common stock to the NASDAQ Capital Market if we satisfy the requirements for initial inclusion set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c), except for the bid price requirement. We will continue to monitor the bid price for our common stock and consider various options available to us if our common stock does not trade at a level that is likely to maintain compliance or the NASDAQ does not further extend the suspension of the Rule. Delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market could have an adverse effect on our business and on the trading of our common stock. If a delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Stock Market were to occur, our common stock would trade on the OTC Bulletin Board or on the “pink sheets” maintained by the National Quotation Bureau, Inc. Such alternatives are generally considered to be less efficient markets, and our stock price, as well as the liquidity of our common stock, may be adversely impacted as a result. The expiration of lock-up agreements entered into with certain Widmer shareholders in connection with the Merger could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. As a condition to the closing of the Merger, certain shareholders of Widmer executed lock-up agreements pursuant to which these holders generally agreed that, from the closing date of the Merger to the first anniversary of the closing, they will not directly or indirectly sell or otherwise transfer any shares of our common stock then held or thereafter acquired without the consent of our board of directors. These Widmer shareholders received 4,002,343 shares of our common stock pursuant to the Merger, which represents approximately 23.6% of the outstanding shares as of December 31, 2008. Upon the expiration of the lock-up agreements, all of these shares will be available for sale in the public market, subject to volume, manner of sale and other limitations under Rule 144 in the case of shares held by any of these shareholders who are affiliates of the Company. Such sales in the public market after the lock-up agreements expire, or the perception that such sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our relationships with Kona and FSB may not provide anticipated benefits. As a result of the Merger, we have a 20% equity interest in Kona and a 42% equity interest in FSB; however as a result of the Merger, we recorded these investments as our percentage share of the associated fair value of the entities, resulting in an amount greater than our percentage share of the net book value of the corresponding entity. As a result of 24 Table of Contents declines deemed to be other than temporary in the estimated future profitability of these entities, we recorded charges to loss on impairment of $100,000 and $1.3 million associated with our corporate investment in Kona and FSB, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2008. If the sales or operations of Kona or FSB experience further declines that are deemed to be other than temporary in nature and substantial in volume or quantity, our analyses of the fair values of these equity investments as compared with their carrying values may indicate that additional impairment losses have been incurred. Any such impairment losses would be charged against current operations. The fair value of our intangible Widmer trademark asset may decrease further. One of the assets acquired in the Merger was the intangible Widmer trademark, which we recorded at its estimated fair value of $16.3 million as of the effective date of the Merger. As a result of a decrease in the estimated cash flows associated with this asset, our analysis concluded that a decrease in the fair value of this asset had occurred. This resulted in our recognizing a loss on impairment of this asset of $6.5 million during the fourth quarter of 2008. If the current recession causes a reduction in consumer demand, or we, for any other reason, experience a decrease in sales growth, a further decrease in the cash flows projected to be generated by this asset may occur. If this decrease is significant, our analysis of the fair value of this intangible asset as compared with its carrying value may indicate that an additional impairment loss has been incurred. Any such impairment loss would be charged against current operations. We do not intend to pay and are limited in our ability to declare or pay dividends, accordingly, shareholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment in us. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the future. Further, due to our loan agreement with Bank of America, N.A. (“BofA”) as modified, we are not able to declare or pay a dividend without our lender’s prior consent. As a result, only appreciation of the price of our common stock will provide a return to shareholders. Investors seeking cash dividends should not invest in our common stock. Our modified credit agreement limits our near-term capital expenditures. Maintaining our facilities or entering into new product or packaging introduction may require incremental capital expenditures; however, per the terms of our borrowing arrangement with our lender, our capital expenditures will be limited in each of the first two quarters of 2009 to specified amounts. If the capital expenditures necessary to maintain our facilities or bring new products or packaging to market are greater than the amounts to which we are limited by this arrangement, our ability to maintain or increase sales growth could be impaired, which could materially adversely affect our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 