Item 1A. Risk Factors If we are unable to gauge trends and react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner, our sales and market share will decrease. The costs and management attention involved in maintaining an innovative brand portfolio have been, and are expected to continue to be, significant. If we have not gauged consumer preferences correctly, or are unable to maintain consistently high quality beers as we develop new brands, our overall brand image may be damaged. If this were to occur, our future sales, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. Increased competition could adversely affect sales and results of operations. We compete in the highly competitive craft brewing market, as well as in the much larger specialty beer category, which includes the imported beer segment and fuller-flavored beer offered by major national brewers. We also face increasing competition from producers of wine, spirits and flavored alcohol beverages offered by the larger spirit producers and national brewers. Increased competition could cause our future sales and results of operations to be adversely affected. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely on computer information systems in the conduct of our business. We have policies and procedures in place to protect against and reduce the occurrence of failures, interruptions, or breaches of security of these systems. However, there can be no assurances that these policies and procedures will eliminate the occurrence of failures, interruptions or breaches of security or that they will adequately restore our systems or minimize any such events. The occurrence of a failure, interruption or breach of security of our computer information systems could result in loss of intellectual property, delays in our production, loss of critical information, or other events, any of which could harm our future sales or operating results. 14 Table of Contents Our business is sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending. Consumer demand for luxury or perceived luxury goods, including craft beer, is sensitive to downturns in the economy and the corresponding impact on discretionary spending. There is no assurance that the craft brewing segment will continue to experience growth in future periods. Changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by factors such as perceived or actual general economic conditions, job losses and the resultant rising unemployment rate, perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth, and changes in consumer confidence in the economy, could significantly reduce customer demand for craft beer in general, and the products we offer specifically. Furthermore, our consumers may choose to replace our products with the fuller-flavored national brands or other more affordable, although lower quality, alternatives available in the market. Any such decline in consumption of our products would likely have a significant negative impact on our operating results. We are dependent upon our continuing relationship with Anheuser-Busch, LLC and the current distribution network. Substantially all of our products are sold and distributed through A-B’s distribution network. If the A-B Distributor Agreement were terminated, we would be faced with a number of operational tasks, including implementing information technology systems to manage our supply chain, order management and logistics, establishing and maintaining direct contracts with the existing wholesaler network or negotiating agreements with replacement wholesalers on an individual basis, and enhancing our credit evaluation, billing, accounts receivable, and regulatory processes. Such an undertaking would require significant effort and substantial time to complete, during which the distribution of our products could be impaired. While we believe that the total one-time and recurring costs associated with such an undertaking may be lower than the total fees paid under the current arrangement with A-B, there can be no assurance that costs of such an undertaking would not exceed the total fees currently paid to A-B. Other products developed or introduced by A-B or its parent may reduce wholesaler attention and financial resources committed to our products. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete in the marketplace against other A-B supported products or beers produced by other companies. A reduction in the level of A-B’s support of our products could cause our sales and results of operations to be adversely affected. We are dependent on our wholesalers for the sale of our products. Although substantially all of our products are sold and distributed through A-B, we continue to rely heavily on wholesalers, most of which are independent, for the sale of our products to retailers. Any disruption in the ability of the wholesalers, A-B, or us to distribute products efficiently due to any significant operational problems, such as wide-spread labor union strikes or the loss of a major wholesaler as a customer, could hinder our ability to get our products to retailers and could have a material adverse impact on our sales, results of operations and cash flows. In 2008, A-B modified the restrictions around its program associated with its decade-long policy of rewarding financial incentives to those wholesalers and distributors that did not distribute malt beverage products other than those within the A-B brand family or affiliated entities, including our products. The modified program now allows A-B wholesalers to carry a small volume of competitive brands without foregoing all of the financial incentives associated with its incentive program. Media reports indicated that at the height of this program, 70 percent of A-B sales were made through wholesalers and distributors carrying only the A-B and alliance brands, but this amount has steadily declined to its present level of under 60 percent. Under the current version of the program, a second tier is available for those wholesalers who may be permitted to carry up to three percent of their volume in competitive beer brands and non-alcohol brands while retaining some of the financial benefits of the incentive program. In the opinion of our management, the modification has led to increased direct competition for us for the attention and focus of A-B wholesalers, as many specialty, regional and local craft brewers are now using the same distributors through which we market our products, and this could have a material impact on our sales, results of operations and cash flows. 15 Table of Contents Our agreements with A-B place limitations on our ability to engage in or reject certain transactions, including acquisitions and changes of control. The Exchange Agreement requires us to obtain the consent of A-B prior to taking certain actions. The practical effect of these restrictions is to grant A-B the ability to veto certain transactions that management may believe to be in the best interest of our shareholders, including our expansion through acquisitions of other craft brewers or new brands, mergers with other brewing companies or distribution of our products outside of the United States. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock may be adversely affected. A-B holds certain rights affecting corporate governance and significant corporate transactions. As of December 31, 2011, A-B owns approximately 32.2% of our outstanding common stock and, under the Exchange Agreement, has the right to appoint two designees to our board of directors. A-B also generally has the contractual right to have a designee on each of the board committees except where prohibited by law or stock exchange requirements, and in those cases an A-B designee acts as an observer. As a result, A-B may have significant influence, particularly with respect to matters requiring approval of our shareholders. This could limit the ability of other shareholders to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control of us. In addition, A-B may have actual or potential interests that differ from our other shareholders. We are dependent on certain A-B information systems and operational support. We rely on components of A-B’s supply-chain and financial information systems to support our operations, particularly for the distribution of and payment for our products. As the maintenance and upkeep of these systems is under A-B’s control, revisions to these systems and efforts to deal with any disruptions will be made at A-B’s direction, which may result in delays in the restoration of systems critical to our operations. Any disruption in these critical information services could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may also incur incremental costs associated with changes to either A-B’s information systems, operational support or the A-B distribution network, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Operating breweries at production levels substantially below their current designed capacities could negatively impact our financial results. As of December 31, 2011, the annual working capacity of our breweries was approximately 900,000 barrels. Due to many factors, including seasonality and production schedules of various draft products and bottled products and packages, actual production capacity will rarely, if ever, approach full working capacity. We believe that capacity utilization of the breweries will fluctuate throughout the year, and even though we expect that capacity of our breweries will be efficiently utilized during periods when our sales are strongest, there likely will be periods when the capacity utilization will be lower. If we experience contraction in our sales volumes, the resulting excess capacity and unabsorbed overhead will have an adverse effect on our gross margins, operating cash flows and overall financial performance. We periodically evaluate whether we expect to recover the costs of our production breweries over the course of their useful lives. If facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these long-lived assets may be impaired, an evaluation of recoverability will be performed by comparing the carrying value of the assets to projected future undiscounted cash flows along with other quantitative and qualitative analyses. If we determine that the carrying value of such assets does not appear to be recoverable, we will recognize an impairment loss by a charge against current operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our sales are concentrated in the Pacific Northwest and California. Nearly two-thirds of our sales in 2011 were in the Pacific Northwest and California and, consequently, our future sales may be adversely affected by changes in economic and business conditions within these areas. We also believe these regions are among the most competitive craft beer markets in the United States, both in terms of number of market participants and consumer awareness. The Pacific Northwest and California offer significant competition to our products, not only from other craft brewers but also from wine producers and flavored alcohol beverages. 16 Table of Contents The craft beer business is seasonal in nature, and we are likely to experience fluctuations in results of operations and financial condition. Sales of craft beer products are somewhat seasonal, with the first and fourth quarters historically being lower and the rest of the year generating stronger sales. Our sales volume may also be affected by weather conditions and selling days within a particular period. Therefore, the results for any given quarter will likely not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year. If an adverse event such as a regional economic downturn or poor weather conditions should occur during the second and third quarters, the adverse impact to our revenues would likely be greater as a result of the seasonal business. Changes in consumer preferences or public attitudes about alcohol could decrease demand for our products. If consumers were unwilling to accept our products or if general consumer trends caused a decrease in the demand for beer, including craft beer, it would adversely impact our sales and results of operations. If the markets for wine, spirits or flavored alcohol beverages continue to grow, this could draw consumers away from the beer industry in general and our products specifically and have an adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Further, the alcoholic beverage industry has become the subject of considerable societal and political attention in recent years due to increasing public concern over alcohol-related social problems, including drunk driving, underage drinking and health consequences from the misuse of alcohol. As an outgrowth of these concerns, the possibility exists that advertising by beer producers could be restricted, that additional cautionary labeling or packaging requirements might be imposed or that there may be renewed efforts to impose, at either the federal or state level, increased excise or other taxes on beer sold in the United States. If beer in general were to fall out of favor among domestic consumers, or if the domestic beer industry were subjected to significant additional governmental regulation, it would likely have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We are dependent upon the services of our key personnel. If we lose the services of any members of senior management or key personnel for any reason, we may be unable to replace them with qualified personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Additionally, the loss of Terry Michaelson as our chief executive officer, and the failure to find a replacement satisfactory to A-B, would be a default under the A-B Distributor Agreement. Our gross margin may fluctuate. Future gross margin may fluctuate and even decline as a result of many factors, including: product pricing levels; sales mix between draft and bottled product sales and within the various bottled product packages; level of fixed and semi-variable operating costs; level of production at our breweries in relation to current production capacity; availability and prices of raw materials, production inputs such as energy, and packaging materials; rates charged for freight; and federal and state excise taxes. The high percentage of fixed and semi-variable operating costs causes our gross margin to be particularly sensitive to relatively small changes in sales volume. We are subject to governmental regulations affecting our breweries and pubs. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the production and distribution of beer, including permitting, licensing, trade practices, labeling, advertising and marketing, distributor relationships and various other matters. A variety of federal, state and local governmental authorities also levy various taxes, license fees and other similar charges and may require bonds to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Certain actions undertaken by us may cause the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau or any particular state or jurisdiction to revoke its license or permit, restricting our ability to conduct business. One or more regulatory authorities could determine that we have not complied with applicable licensing or permitting regulations or have not maintained the approvals necessary for us to conduct business within our jurisdiction. If licenses, permits or approvals necessary for our brewery or pub operations were unavailable or unduly delayed, or if any permits or licenses that we hold were to be revoked, our ability to conduct business may be disrupted, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 17 Table of Contents We believe that we currently have all of the licenses, permits and approvals required for our current operations. However, we do business in almost every state through the A-B distribution network, and for many of these states, we rely on the licensing, permitting and approvals maintained by A-B. If a state or a number of states required us to obtain our own licensing, permitting or approvals to operate within the state’s boundaries, a combination of events may occur, including a disruption of sales or significant increases in compliance costs. If licenses, permits or approvals not previously required for the sale of our malt beverage products were to be required, the ability to conduct our business could be disrupted, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An increase in excise taxes could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The U.S. federal government currently levies an excise tax of $18 per barrel on beer sold for consumption in the United States; however, brewers that produce less than two million barrels annually are taxed at $7 per barrel on the first 60,000 barrels shipped, with the remainder of the shipments taxed at the normal rate. Individual states that we operate in also impose excise taxes on beer and other alcohol beverages in varying amounts, which have been subject to change. Federal and state legislators routinely consider various proposals to impose additional excise taxes on the production of alcoholic beverages, including beer. Any such increases in excise taxes, if enacted, would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in state laws regarding distribution arrangements may adversely impact our operations. States in which we have a significant sales presence may enact legislation that significantly alters the competitive environment for the beer industry. Any change in the competitive environment in those states could have an adverse effect on our future sales and results of operations and may impact the financial stability of wholesalers on which we rely. We may experience a shortage of kegs necessary to distribute draft beer. We distribute our draft beer in kegs that are owned by us as well as leased from a third-party vendor, and, on a limited basis, from A-B. During periods when we experience stronger sales, we may need to rely on kegs leased from A-B and the third-party vendor to address the additional demand. If shipments of draft beer increase, we may experience a shortage of available kegs to fill sales orders. If we cannot meet our keg requirements through either lease or purchase, we may be required to delay some draft shipments. Such delays could have an adverse impact on sales and relationships with wholesalers and A-B. We may also decide to pursue other alternatives for leasing or purchasing kegs, but there is no assurance that we will be successful in securing additional kegs. We are dependent on certain suppliers for key raw materials, packaging materials and production inputs. Although we seek to maintain back-up and alternative suppliers for all key raw materials and production inputs, we are reliant on certain third parties for key raw materials, packaging materials and utilities. Any disruption in the willingness or ability of these third parties to supply these critical components could hinder our ability to continue production of our products, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Loss of income tax benefits could negatively impact our results of operations. As of December 31, 2011, our deferred tax assets were primarily comprised of federal net operating losses (“NOLs”) of $4.5 million, or $1.5 million tax-effected; state NOL carryforwards of $129,000 tax-effected; and federal and state alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards of $726,000 tax-effected. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon generating taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. To the extent that we are unable to generate adequate taxable income in future periods, we may be required to record a valuation allowance to provide for potentially expiring NOLs or other deferred tax assets. Any such allowance would generally be charged to earnings in the period of increase. In addition, as NOLs are utilized, the potential for audit by federal and state jurisdictions will increase. The NOLs generated by us in 1997 through 2003 will be used on the 2011 tax return, which means these NOLs can be audited. An audit of these NOLs could be time consuming and difficult given their age. 18 Table of Contents A small number of shareholders hold a significant ownership percentage of the Company and uncertainty over their continuing ownership plans could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. As noted above, A-B has a significant ownership stake in us. In addition, the founders of Widmer Brothers Brewing Company (“WBBC”) and their close family members own approximately 3.4 million shares, or 18.0%, of our common stock. Collectively, these two groups own 50.2% of our equity. All of these shares are available for sale in the public market, subject to volume, manner of sale and other limitations under Rule 144 in the case of shares held by shareholders who are affiliates of us. Such sales in the public market or the perception that such sales could occur may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We do not intend to pay and are limited in our ability to declare or pay dividends; accordingly, shareholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment in us. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends. Further, under our loan agreement with Bank of America (“BofA”), we are not permitted to declare or pay a dividend without BofA’s prior consent. As a result, only appreciation of the price of our common stock will provide a return to shareholders. Investors seeking cash dividends should not invest in our common stock. The fair value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, may become impaired. As a result of the KBC Merger, we have recognized a significant increase in our total intangible assets, including goodwill. As of December 31, 2011, we had $30.1 million in an assortment of intangible assets, on a net basis, which represented nearly 19% of our total assets. If any circumstances were to occur, such as economic recession or other factors causing a reduction in consumer demand, or for any other reason we were to experience a significant decrease in sales growth, which had a negative impact on our estimated cash flows associated with these assets, our analyses of these assets may conclude that a decrease in the fair value of these assets occurred. If this were to occur, we would be required to recognize a potentially significant loss on impairment of these assets. Any such impairment loss would be charged against current operations in the period of change. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 