Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Language Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. This report contains “forward looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include the discussion of our business strategies and expectations concerning future operations, margins, profitability, liquidity and capital resources. In addition, in certain portions of this report, the words “anticipate,” “project,” “believe,” “estimate,” “may,” “will,” “expect,” “plan” and “intend” and similar expressions, as they relate to us or our management, are intended to identify forward looking statements. These forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward looking statements. These statements are based upon the current expectations and assumptions of, and on information available to, our management. Further, investors are cautioned that, unless required by law, we do not assume any obligation to update forward-looking statements based on unanticipated events or changed expectations. In addition to specific factors that may be described in connection with any particular forward-looking statement, factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward looking statements include (but are not limited to) the following: Our business is sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending, which may result from the prolonged U.S. economic recession. Consumer demand for luxury or perceived luxury goods, including craft beer, are sensitive to downturns in the economy and the corresponding impact on discretionary spending. For 2009, the overall craft beer segment has continued to grow in the face of the challenging economic environment; however, there is no assurance that it will continue to enjoy growth in future periods as the U.S. economic recession persists. Changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by the factors such as perceived or actual general economic conditions, job losses and the resultant rising unemployment rate, the current housing crisis, the current credit crisis, perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth, the current U.S. economic recession and changes in consumer confidence in the economy, could significantly reduce customer demand for craft beer in general, and the products we offer specifically. Certain of our core markets, particularly in the West, have been harder hit by the current economic recession, with job loss and unemployment rates in excess of the national averages. Furthermore, any of these factors may cause consumers to substitute our products with the fuller-flavored national brands or other more affordable, although lower quality, alternatives available to consumers. In either event, this would likely have a significant negative impact on our operating results. Increased competition could adversely affect sales and results of operations. We compete in the highly competitive craft brewing market as well as in the much larger high-end beer category, which includes the high-end imported beer segment and fuller-flavored beer offered by major national brewers. Beyond this category of the beer market, craft brewers, including us, have also faced increasing competition from producers of wine, spirits and flavored alcohol beverages offered by the larger spirit producers and national brewers. Increasing competition could cause our future sales and results of operations to be adversely affected. Our rate of future growth in sales revenues is volatile and could be negative. We have historically operated with little or no backlog and, therefore, our ability to predict sales for future periods is limited. We are dependent upon our continuing relationship with A-B and the current distribution network. Substantially all of our products are sold and distributed through A-B. If our amended A-B Distribution Agreement were terminated, we would be faced with a number of operational tasks, including implementing 16 Table of Contents information technology systems to manage our supply chain including order management and logistics efforts, establishing and maintaining direct contracts with the existing wholesaler and distributor network or negotiating agreements with replacement wholesalers and distributors on an individual basis, and enhancing our credit evaluation and regulatory processes. Such an undertaking would require a significant number of organizational personnel devoted to the effort and substantial time to complete, during which the distribution of our products may be impaired. The costs of such an undertaking could exceed the total fees that we currently pay to A-B. Presently, we distribute our products through a network of more than 540 independent wholesale distributors, most of which are geographically contiguous and independently owned and operated, and 11 branches owned and operated by A-B. If we are required to negotiate agreements with replacement wholesalers and distributors on an individual basis, it may be challenging for us to build a distribution network as seamless and contiguous as the one we currently enjoy through A-B. Our agreements with A-B place limitations on our ability to engage in or reject certain transactions, including acquisitions and changes of control. The amended Exchange Agreement requires us to obtain the consent of A-B prior to taking certain actions, or to offer to A-B a right of first refusal. The practical effect of these restrictions is to grant A-B the ability to veto certain transactions that management may believe to be in the best interest of our shareholders, including our expansion through acquisitions of other craft brewers or new brands, mergers with other brewing companies or distribution of our products outside of the United States. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock may be adversely affected. A-B has significant control and influence over us. As of December 31, 2009, A-B owns approximately 35.5% of our outstanding common stock and, under the amended Exchange Agreement, has the right to appoint two designees to our board of directors and to observe the conduct of all board committees. As a result, A-B is able to exercise significant control and influence over us and matters requiring approval of our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as another merger or other sale of our assets. This could limit the ability of other shareholders to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control of us. In addition, A-B may have actual or potential interests that are divergent from the remainder of our shareholders. The securities markets may also react unfavorably to A-B’s ability to influence certain matters involving the Company, which may have an adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. The impact of A-B’s ownership by a global consumer products conglomerate on our business remains unclear. On November 18, 2008, InBev acquired the parent company of A-B and changed the acquiring entity’s name to Anheuser-Busch Inbev to reflect the combined operations. Anheuser-Busch Inbev, headquartered in Leuven, Belgium, is the leading global brewer and one of the world’s top five consumer products companies. Anheuser-Busch InBev manages a portfolio of over 200 brands that includes global flagship brands Stella Artois and Beck’s, in addition to A-B’s Budweiser. Introduction of and support by A-B of these competing products, or other products developed or introduced by A-B or its parent, may reduce wholesaler attention and financial resources committed to our products. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete in the marketplace against other A-B supported products or other products without the current level of support allotted to us by A-B. Such a change in A-B’s support level could cause our sales and results of operations to be adversely affected. We may incur significant operational expenses as a result of changes in the A-B distribution network. Given our relationship with A-B and the A-B distribution network, we may be required to take on additional tasks and responsibilities to retain our position within the network. For example, A-B has elected to phase out its WSCs, which is likely to cause the Company to incur incremental costs for shipping to master wholesalers that provide similar cross-docking services that the WSCs provided previously. The WSC phase out and similar changes by A-B could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are dependent on our distributors for the sale of our products. Although substantially all of our products are sold and distributed through A-B, we continue to rely heavily on distributors, most of which are independent wholesalers, for the sale of our products to retailers. Any disruption in the ability of the 17 Table of Contents wholesalers, A-B, or us to distribute products efficiently due to any significant operational problems, such as wide-spread labor union strikes or the loss of a major wholesaler as a customer, could hinder our ability to get our products to retailers and could have a material adverse impact on our sales, results of operations and cash flows. We are dependent on certain A-B information systems and operational support. We rely on the A-B supply-chain, order management, logistics and other financial systems to support our operations, particularly for the distribution of our products. As the maintenance and upkeep of these systems is under A-B’s control, any disruption or revisions to these systems will be remedied or made at A-B’s direction. Any interruption or disruption in these critical information services could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We face liquidity risk. As of December 31, 2009, we have approximately $26.2 million in outstanding borrowed debt, principally financed by one lender. The terms of the loan agreement require that we meet certain financial covenants. Although we expect to meet these covenants in the future, we have been unable to meet the covenants associated with our loan agreement in the past, requiring us to seek modification of the agreement and the associated covenants with our lenders in 2008. We may not be able to generate financial results sufficient to meet the financial covenant measurements, causing us to be in violation of the loan agreement. Failure to meet the covenants required by the loan agreement is an event of default and, at its option, the lender could deny a request for a waiver and declare the entire outstanding loan balance immediately due and payable. In such a case, we would seek to refinance the loan with one or more lenders, potentially at less desirable terms. Given the current economic environment and the tightening of lending standards by many financial institutions, including some of the lenders from which we might seek credit, there can be no guarantee that additional financing would be available at commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Operating breweries at production levels substantially below their current designed capacities could negatively impact our gross margins. At December 31, 2009, the annual working capacity of our breweries totaled approximately 929,000 barrels. Due to many factors including seasonality and production schedules of various draft products and bottled products and packages, actual production capacity will rarely, if ever, approach full working capacity. We believe that capacity utilization of the breweries will fluctuate throughout the year, and even though we expect that capacity of our breweries will be efficiently utilized during periods when our sales are strongest, there likely will be periods when the capacity utilization will be lower. If we are unable to achieve significant sales growth, the resulting excess capacity and unabsorbed overhead will have an adverse effect on our gross margins, operating cash flows and overall financial performance. We periodically evaluate whether we expect to recover the costs of our production facilities over the course of their useful lives. If facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these long-lived assets may be impaired, an evaluation of recoverability will be performed by comparing the carrying value of the assets to projected future undiscounted cash flows along with other quantitative and qualitative analyses. If we determine that the carrying value of such assets does not appear to be recoverable, we will recognize an impairment loss by a charge against current operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our sales are concentrated in the Pacific Northwest and California. More than 60 percent of our sales in 2009 were in the Pacific Northwest and California and, consequently, our future sales may be adversely affected by changes in economic and business conditions within these areas. We also believe these regions are among the most competitive craft beer markets in the United States, both in terms of number of market participants and consumer awareness. The Pacific Northwest and California offer significant competition to our products, not only from other craft brewers but also from the increasing wine market and from flavored alcohol beverages. The craft beer business is seasonal in nature, and we are likely to experience fluctuations in results of operations and financial condition. Sales of craft beer products are somewhat seasonal, with the first and fourth quarters historically being lower and the rest of the year generating stronger sales. As well, our sales volume may also be affected by weather conditions and selling days within a particular period. Therefore, the results for any given quarter will likely not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for 18 Table of Contents the full fiscal year. If an adverse event such as a regional economic downturn or poor weather conditions should occur during the second and third quarters, the adverse impact to our revenues would likely be greater as a result of the seasonal business. Changes in consumer preferences or public attitudes about alcohol could decrease demand for our products. If consumers were unwilling to accept our products or if general consumer trends caused a decrease in the demand for beer, including craft beer, it would adversely impact our sales and results of operations. If the markets for wine, spirits or flavored alcohol beverages continue to grow, this could draw consumers away from the beer industry in general and our products specifically and have an adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Further, the alcoholic beverage industry has become the subject of considerable societal and political attention in recent years due to increasing public concern over alcohol-related social problems, including drunk driving, underage drinking and health consequences from the misuse of alcohol. As an outgrowth of these concerns, the possibility exists that advertising by beer producers could be restricted, that additional cautionary labeling or packaging requirements might be imposed or that there may be renewed efforts to impose at either the federal or state level, increased excise or other taxes on beer sold in the United States. If beer consumption in general were to fall out of favor among domestic consumers, or if the domestic beer industry were subjected to significant additional governmental regulation, it would likely have a significant adverse impact on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. We are dependent upon the services of our key personnel. If we lose the services of any members of senior management or key personnel for any reason, we may be unable to replace them with qualified personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Additionally, the loss of Terry Michaelson as our chief executive officer, and the failure to find a replacement satisfactory to A-B, would be a default under the amended A-B Distribution Agreement. Our gross margin may fluctuate. Future gross margin may fluctuate and even decline as a result of many factors, including product pricing levels including the extent of price promotion; sales mix between draft and bottled product sales and within the various bottled product packages; level of fixed and semi-variable operating costs; level of production at our breweries in relation to current production capacity; availability and prices of raw materials, production inputs such as energy, and packaging materials; and rates charged for freight and federal or state excise taxes. The high percentage of fixed and semi-variable operating costs for our cost structure causes our gross margin to be particularly sensitive to relatively small changes in sales volume. We are subject to governmental regulations affecting our breweries and pubs. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the production and distribution of beer, including permitting, licensing, trade practices, labeling, advertising and marketing, distributor relationships and various other matters. A variety of federal, state and local governmental authorities also levy various taxes, license fees and other similar charges and may require bonds to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Certain actions undertaken by the Company may cause the TTB or any particular state or jurisdiction to revoke its license or permit, restricting the Company’s ability to conduct business. One or more regulatory authorities could determine that the Company has not complied with applicable licensing or permitting regulations or has not maintained the approvals necessary for the Company to conduct business within its jurisdiction. If licenses, permits or approvals necessary for our brewery or pub operations were unavailable or unduly delayed, or if any permits or licenses that we hold were to be revoked, our ability to conduct business may be disrupted, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We believe that we currently have all of the licenses, permits and approvals required for our current operations. However, we do business in almost every state with our products being distributed though the A-B distribution network, and for many of these states, we rely on the licensing, permitting and approvals maintained by A-B. If a state or a number of states required us to obtain our own licensing, permitting or approvals to operate within the state’s boundaries, a combination of events may occur, including a disruption of sales or significant increases in compliance costs. If licenses, permits or approvals not previously required for the sale of our malt beverage products were to be suddenly required, the ability to conduct our business could be disrupted, which is likely to have an adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 19 Table of Contents An increase in excise taxes could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The U.S. federal government currently levies an excise tax of $18 per barrel on beer sold for consumption in the United States; however, brewers that produce less than two million barrels annually are taxed at $7 per barrel on the first 60,000 barrels shipped, with the remainder of the shipments taxed at the normal rate. Individual states that the Company operates in also impose excise taxes on beer and other alcohol beverages in varying amounts, which have been subject to change. Federal and state legislators routinely consider various proposals to impose additional excise taxes on the production of alcoholic beverages, including beer. Due in part to the prolonged economic recession and the follow-on effect on state budgets, a number of states are proposing legislation that would lead to significant increases in the excise tax rate on alcoholic beverages for their states. Any such increases in excise taxes, if enacted, would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in state laws regarding distribution arrangements may adversely impact our operations. In 2006, the Washington state legislature enacted legislation removing the long-standing requirement that small producers of wine and beer distribute their products through wholesale distributors, thus permitting these small producers to distribute their products directly to retailers. The law further provides that any brewery that produces more than 2,500 barrels annually may distribute its products directly to retailers, if its distribution facilities are physically separate and distinct from its production facilities. The legislation stipulates that prices charged by a brewery must be uniform for all distributors and retailers, but does not mandate the price retailers may charge consumers. Our operations will continue to be substantially impacted by the Washington state regulatory environment, and while it is difficult to predict what impact, if any, this law will have, the beer and wine market is likely to experience an increase in competition that could cause future sales and results of operations to be adversely affected. This law may also impact the financial stability of Washington state wholesalers on which we rely. Other states in which we have a significance sales presence may enact similar legislation, which is likely to have the same or similar effect on the competitive environment for those states. An increase in the competitive environment in those states could have an adverse effect on our future sales and results of operations. We may experience a shortage of kegs necessary to distribute draft beer. We distribute our draft beer in kegs that are owned by us as well as leased from a third-party vendor, and on a limited basis from A-B. During periods when we experience stronger sales, we may need to rely on kegs leased from A-B and the third-party vendor to address the additional demand. If shipments of draft beer increase, we may experience a shortage of available kegs to fill sales orders. If we cannot meet our keg requirements through either lease or purchase, we may be required to delay some draft shipments. Such delays could have an adverse impact on sales and relationships with wholesalers and A-B. We may also decide to pursue other alternatives for leasing or purchasing kegs, but there is no assurance that we will be successful in securing additional kegs. Our use of fixed price contracts for significant portions of our key raw materials may result in a cost structure greater than our competitors. According to industry and media sources, costs for many of the Company’s primary raw materials, including barley, wheat and hops, increased significantly over the period from 2006 to 2008, and for certain of the commodities, reached historic price levels. These increases were primarily the result of lower supplies due to various reasons, including farmers and agricultural growers curtailing or eliminating these commodities to grow other more lucrative crops, lower crop yields and unexpected crop losses. Over this period and continuing into 2009, the Company has utilized fixed price contracts to mitigate its exposure to price volatility and to secure availability of these critical inputs for its products. As the factors impacting supply described above abate and spot prices for these commodities fall, the Company will not immediately enjoy the full impact of favorable price movements, if any. This trend is expected to continue into the early part of 2010 while purchases under our current contracts are consummated. The Company will continue to seek opportunities to secure longer-term pricing and security for its key raw materials while balancing the opportunities for capturing favorable price movement as circumstances dictate. We are dependent on certain suppliers for key raw materials, packaging materials and production inputs. Although we seek to maintain back-up and alternative suppliers for all key raw materials and production 20 Table of Contents inputs, we are reliant on certain third parties for key raw materials, packaging materials and utilities. Any disruption in the willingness or ability of these third parties to supply these critical components could hinder our ability to continue production of our products, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Loss of income tax benefits could negatively impact our results of operations. As of December 31, 2009, our deferred tax assets were primarily comprised of federal net operating losses (“NOLs”) of $27.1 million, or $9.2 million tax-effected; state NOL carryforwards of $294,000 tax-effected; and federal and state alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards of $221,000 tax effected. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the existence of, or generation of, taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. As of December 31, 2009, we maintained a valuation allowance of $100,000 against certain of our deferred tax assets based on our assessment that it was more likely than not that these deferred tax assets would not be realized. To the extent that the Company is unable to generate adequate taxable income in future periods, the Company may be required to record an additional valuation allowance to provide for potentially expiring NOLs or other deferred tax assets for which a valuation allowance has not been previously recorded. Any such increase would generally be charged to earnings in the period of increase. Our common stock could be de-listed from the NASDAQ Global Market if our stock price were to trade below $1.00 per share for an extended period of time. Under NASDAQ’s Marketplace Rule 5810(c)(3)(A) (“Rule”), any company whose stock has a closing bid price less than $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days may be subject to a de-listing proceeding. The closing bid price for our stock has been less than $1.00 at various points during the first quarter of 2009; however it was for a period consisting of less than 30 consecutive days, so we were not subject to de-listing procedures as a result. Additionally, the NASDAQ had suspended the enforcement of the Rule for all listed companies, including ours, for the period beginning October 16, 2008 through July 19, 2009. In the event that we receive notice that our common stock is being subjected to de-listing procedures from the NASDAQ Global Market, NASDAQ rules permit us to appeal any de-listing determination by the NASDAQ staff to a NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel. Alternatively, NASDAQ may permit us to transfer the listing of our common stock to the NASDAQ Capital Market if we satisfy the requirements for initial inclusion set forth in Marketplace Rule 5505, except for the bid price requirement. We will consider the various options available to us if our common stock were to begin trading at a level that is unlikely to maintain compliance. Delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market could have an adverse effect on our business and on the trading of our common stock. If a delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Stock Market were to occur, our common stock would trade on the OTC Bulletin Board or on the “pink sheets” maintained by the National Quotation Bureau, Inc. Such alternatives are generally considered to be less efficient markets, and our stock price, as well as the liquidity of our common stock, may be adversely impacted as a result. A small number of shareholders hold a significant ownership percentage of the Company and uncertainty over their continuing ownership plans could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. As noted above, A-B has a significant ownership stake in the Company. In addition, the founders of Widmer and their close family members own more than 3.7 million shares of our common stock, which they received in the Merger. Collectively, these two groups own 57.3% of the Company. The lock-up agreements that we had with certain members of the Widmer family that restricted the transfer or sale of shares have expired. Therefore, all of these shares, which are held by a limited number of entities, are available for sale in the public market, subject to volume, manner of sale and other limitations under Rule 144 in the case of shares held by any of these shareholders who are affiliates of the Company. Such sales in the public market or the perception that such sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our relationships with Kona and FSB may not provide anticipated benefits. As a result of the Merger, we have a 20% equity interest in Kona and a 42% equity interest in FSB; however as a result of the Merger, we recorded these investments as our percentage share of the associated fair value of the entities, resulting in an amount greater than our percentage share of the net book value of the corresponding entity. As a result of declines deemed to be other than temporary in the estimated future profitability of these entities, we recorded charges to loss on impairment of $100,000 and $1.3 million associated with our corporate investment in Kona and FSB, 21 Table of Contents respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2008. If the sales or operations of Kona or FSB experience declines that are deemed to be other than temporary in nature and substantial in volume or quantity, our analyses of the fair values of these equity investments as compared with their carrying values may indicate that additional impairment losses have been incurred. Any such impairment losses would be charged against current operations. The fair value of our intangible Widmer trademark asset may experience future declines. One of the assets acquired in the Merger was the intangible Widmer trademark, which we recorded at its estimated fair value of $16.3 million as of the effective date of the Merger. As a result of a decrease in the estimated cash flows associated with this asset, our analysis concluded that a decrease in the fair value of this asset had occurred. This resulted in our recognizing a loss on impairment of this asset of $6.5 million during the fourth quarter of 2008. If we experience a substantial decrease in sales growth for Widmer-branded products for any reason, a further decrease in the cash flows projected to be generated by this asset may occur. If this decrease is significant, our analysis of the fair value of this intangible asset as compared with its carrying value may indicate that an additional impairment loss has been incurred. Any such impairment loss would be charged against current operations. We do not intend to pay and are limited in our ability to declare or pay dividends; accordingly, shareholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment in us. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the future. Further, due to our loan agreement with Bank of America, N.A. (“BofA”) as modified, we are not able to declare or pay a dividend without BofA’s prior consent. As a result, only appreciation of the price of our common stock will provide a return to shareholders. Investors seeking cash dividends should not invest in our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 