Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, should be carefully considered in evaluating our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or deemed insignificant may also impair our business operations. Solely for purposes of the risk factors in this Item 1A., the terms “we”, “our” and “us” refer to Redhook Ale Brewery, Incorporated and its subsidiaries. We are dependent upon our continuing relationship with Anheuser-Busch, Incorporated. All of our future sales are expected to be made through the A-B Distribution Agreement and through sales to Craft Brands. Craft Brands will distribute Redhook products through a separate distribution arrangement with A-B. If our relationship with A-B, our relationship with Craft Brands or the relationship between A-B and Craft Brands were to deteriorate, distribution of our products would suffer significant disruption and such event would have a long-term severe negative impact on our sales and results of operations, as it would be extremely difficult for us to rebuild our own distribution network. We believe that the benefits of the Distribution Agreement and our relationship with A-B and Craft Brands, in particular distribution and material cost efficiencies, offset the costs associated with the relationship. However, there can be no assurance that these costs will not have a negative impact on our profit margins in the future. Additionally, the termination of the A-B Distribution Agreement for any reason would constitute an event of default under our bank credit agreement, and the bank may declare the entire outstanding loan balance immediately due and payable. If this were to occur, we could seek to refinance our term loan with one or more banks or obtain additional equity capital; however, there can be no assurance we would be able to access additional capital to meet our needs or that such additional capital would be available at commercially reasonable terms. Our agreement with A-B contains limitations on our ability to engage in or reject certain transactions, including acquisitions and changes of control. The Exchange and Recapitalization Agreement with A-B contains limitations on, among other matters, our ability to, without the prior consent of A-B: • issue equity securities; • acquire or sell assets or stock; • amend our Articles of Incorporation or bylaws; • grant board representation rights; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; • distribute our products in the United States other than through A-B, Craft Brands or as provided in the A-B Distribution Agreement; • voluntarily delist or terminate our listing on the Nasdaq Stock Market; or • dispose of any of our interest in Craft Brands. Further, if the A-B Distribution Agreement is terminated, or the distribution of Redhook products is terminated by Craft Brands, A-B has the right to solicit and negotiate offers from third parties to purchase all or substantially all of the assets or securities of the Company or to enter into a merger or consolidation transaction with the Company and the right to cause our board of directors to consider any such offer. Additionally, as of December 31, 2005, A-B owned approximately 33.6% of our Common Stock. As long as A-B owns a substantial portion of our outstanding common stock, it may have the ability to approve or block actions requiring the approval of our shareholders. Our investment in Craft Brands Alliance LLC may not provide anticipated benefits. We believe that Craft Brands’ combined sales and marketing organization creates synergies and capitalizes on both Redhook’s and Widmer’s sales and marketing experience and complementary product portfolios. We have realized a decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses and recognized income of $2.4 million in 2005 and 19 Table of Contents $1.1 million in 2004 from our investment in Craft Brands; however, Craft Brands has only been operational since July 2004 and predicting future benefits from Crafts Brands is difficult. There can be no assurance that we will see any further or anticipated benefits from the joint venture. The Craft Brands Operating Agreement requires us to make an additional sales and marketing contribution to Craft Brands in 2008 if the volume of sales of our products in 2007 in the Western Territory is less than 92% of the volume of sales of our products in 2003 in the Western Territory. If necessary, this additional sales and marketing contribution may total $750,000 and will be required to be paid in no more than three equal installments made on or before February 1, 2008, April 1, 2008, and July 1, 2008. If we are required to make this additional sales and marketing contribution, our available cash will decrease and our income from Craft Brands will decrease by the amount of the Special Marketing Expense, which will be allocated 100% to us. We are dependent on our distributors for the sale of our products. Although all of our future sales are expected to be made through the A-B Distribution Agreement and through sales to Craft Brands, we continue to rely heavily on distributors, most of which are independent wholesalers, for the sale of our products to retailers. K&L is responsible for distribution of our products in one of our largest markets — Seattle, Washington. K&L accounted for approximately 12%, 13% and 13% of total sales volume in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. A disruption of Craft Brands’, the wholesalers’, A-B’s or our ability to distribute products efficiently due to any significant operational problems, such as wide-spread labor union strikes, the loss of K&L as a customer, or the termination of the A-B Distribution Agreement or the Craft Brands Supply and Distribution Agreement could hinder our ability to get our products to retailers and could have a material adverse impact on our sales and results of operations. Changes in state laws regarding distribution arrangements may adversely impact our operations. In 2006, the Washington state legislature passed a bill that will remove the long-standing requirement that small producers of wine and beer distribute their products through wholesale distributors, thus permitting these small producers to distribute their products directly to retailers. The law further provides that any in-state or out-of-state brewery that produces more than 2,500 barrels annually may distribute its products directly to retailers if it does so from a facility located in the state that is physically separate and distinct from its production facilities. The new legislation stipulates that prices charged by a brewery must be uniform to all distributors and retailers, but does not restrict prices retailers may charge consumers. While it is too soon to predict what impact, if any, this law will have on our operations, the beer and wine market may experience an increase in competition and cause our future sales and results of operations to be adversely affected. This law may also impact the financial stability of Washington state wholesalers on which we rely. Increased competition could adversely affect sales and results of operations. We compete in the highly competitive craft brewing market as well as in the much larger specialty beer market, which encompasses producers of import beers, major national brewers that produce fuller-flavored products, and large spirit companies and national brewers that produce flavored alcohol beverages. Beyond the beer market, craft brewers also face competition from producers of wines and spirits. Primarily as a result of this increased competition, we experienced declining sales volumes ranging from 2.3% to 5.7% for the years 1997 through 1999. Our sales volume for the years 1999 to 2003 increased when compared to the corresponding prior year’s volumes, but decreased again in 2004. Although our 2005 sales volume increased compared to 2004, the increase was a modest 4.1%, while industry sources estimate that the craft brewing segment in total increased approximately 9%. Increasing competition could cause our future sales and results of operations to be adversely affected. We have historically operated with little or no backlog and, therefore, our ability to predict sales for future periods is limited. Future price promotions to generate demand for our products may be unsuccessful. Future prices we charge for our products may decrease from historical levels, depending on competitive factors in our various markets. In order to stimulate demand for our products, we have participated in price promotions with our wholesalers and retail customers in most of our markets. The number of markets in which we participate in price promotions and the frequency of such promotions may increase in the future. There can be no assurance however that our price promotions will be successful in increasing demand for our products. 20 Table of Contents Due to our concentration of sales in the Pacific Northwest, our results of operations and financial condition are subject to fluctuations in regional economic conditions. A significant portion of our sales continue to be in the Pacific Northwest region. Our business may be adversely affected by changes in economic and business conditions nationally and particularly within the Northwest region. Additionally, we believe this region is one of the most competitive craft beer markets in the United States, both in terms of number of market participants and consumer awareness. We face extreme competitive pressure in Washington state which is our largest and oldest market. Since 2000, we have experienced a decline in sales volume in Washington state of approximately 20%, significantly impacted by a 12% decline in 2004 volume over 2003 volume. We believe that the Pacific Northwest, and Washington state in particular, offers significant competition to our products, not only from other craft brewers but also from the growing wine market and from flavored alcohol beverages. This intense competition is magnified because our brand is viewed as being relatively mature. Focus studies in late 2004 indicated that, while our brand possesses brand awareness among target consumers, it also appears to not attract key consumers who seem to be more interested in experimenting with new products. These focus studies have resulted in Craft Brands focusing its 2005 marketing efforts on updating the Redhook brand image to stimulate demand. In addition, Washington state shipments in late 2003, all of 2004 and 2005 appear to have been significantly impacted by the formation of Craft Brands. Our management believes that the beer industry is influenced, both positively and negatively, by individual relationships. In Washington state, where some of those relationships have existed for many years, the transition to Craft Brands appears to have had some negative impact on those relationships. The transition took longer than anticipated and in 2004, nearly all our sales staff responsible for the Washington state market left the Company. While we believe the Craft Brands sales staff is re-establishing those relationships and that sales of our products will stabilize, the process is expected to take some time. However, there can be no assurance that we will see any anticipated benefits from these efforts. Our business is seasonal in nature, and we are likely to experience fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. Sales of our products are somewhat seasonal, with the first and fourth quarters historically being the slowest and the rest of the year generating stronger sales. Our sales volume may also be affected by weather conditions. Therefore, our results for any quarter may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year. If an adverse event such as a regional economic downturn or poor weather conditions should occur during the second and third quarters, the adverse impact to our revenues could likely be greater as a result of our seasonal business. Our gross margins may fluctuate while our expenses remain constant. We anticipate that our future gross margins will fluctuate and may decline as a result of many factors, including shipments to Craft Brands at a fixed price substantially below wholesale pricing levels, disproportionate depreciation and other fixed and semivariable operating costs, and the level of production at our breweries in relation to current production capacity. Our high level of fixed and semivariable operating costs causes gross margin to be especially sensitive to relatively small increases or decreases in sales volume. In addition, other factors beyond our control that could affect cost of sales include changes in freight charges, the availability and prices of raw materials and packaging materials, the mix between draft and bottled product sales, the sales mix of various bottled product packages, and federal or state excise taxes. Changes in consumer preferences or public attitudes about our products could reduce demand. If consumers were unwilling to accept our products or if general consumer trends caused a decrease in the demand for beer, including craft beer, it would adversely impact our sales and results of operations. If the flavored alcohol beverage market, the wine market, or the spirits market continue to grow, they could draw consumers away from our products and have an adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Further, the alcoholic beverage industry has become the subject of considerable societal and political attention in recent years due to increasing public concern over alcohol-related social problems, including drunk driving, underage drinking and health consequences from the misuse of alcohol. If beer consumption in general were to come into disfavor among domestic consumers, or if the domestic beer industry were subjected to significant additional governmental regulation, our operations could be adversely affected. We are subject to governmental regulations affecting our breweries and pubs; the costs of complying with governmental regulations, or our failure to comply with such regulations, could affect our financial condition 21 Table of Contents and results of operations. Our breweries and our pubs are subject to licensing and regulation by a number of governmental authorities, including the United States Treasury Department, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, the United States Department of Agriculture, the United States Food and Drug Administration, state alcohol regulatory agencies in the states in which we sell our products, and state and local health, sanitation, safety, fire and environmental agencies. Our failure to comply with applicable federal, state or local regulations could result in limitations on our ability to conduct business. TTB permits can be revoked for failure to pay taxes, to keep proper accounts, to pay fees, to bond premises, to abide by federal alcoholic beverage production and distribution regulations, or if holders of 10% or more of our equity securities are found to be of questionable character. Other permits or licenses could be revoked if we fail to comply with the terms of such permits or licenses, and additional permits or licenses could be required in the future for our existing or expanded operations. If licenses, permits or approvals necessary for our brewery or pub operations were unavailable or unduly delayed, or if any such permits or licenses were revoked, our ability to conduct business could be substantially and adversely affected. Our brewery operations are also subject to environmental regulations and local permitting requirements and agreements regarding, among other things, air emissions, water discharges, and the handling and disposal of wastes. While we have no reason to believe the operations of our facilities violate any such regulation or requirement, if such a violation were to occur, or if environmental regulations were to become more stringent in the future, our business could be adversely affected. We are also subject to “dram shop” laws, which generally provide a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Our pubs have addressed this concern by establishing early closing hours and regularly scheduled employee training, however, large uninsured damage awards against the Company could adversely affect our financial condition. We may experience material losses in excess of insurance coverage. We believe we maintain insurance coverage that is customary for businesses of our size and type. There are, however, certain types of catastrophic losses that are not generally insured because it is not economically feasible to insure against such losses. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, such loss could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Declining sales trends could adversely effect brewery efficiency and our financial results. Our breweries have been operating at production levels substantially below their current and maximum designed capacities. Operating our breweries at low capacity utilization rates negatively impacts our gross margins and operating cash flows generated by the production facilities. We periodically evaluate whether we expect to recover the costs of our production facilities over the course of their useful lives. If facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these long-lived assets may be impaired, an evaluation of recoverability will be performed in accordance with FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (“SFAS’) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, by comparing the carrying value of the assets to projected future undiscounted cash flows in addition to other quantitative and qualitative analyses. If our management believes that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable, we will recognize an impairment loss by a charge against current operations. An increase in excise taxes could adversely affect our financial condition. The U.S. federal government currently imposes an excise tax of $18 per barrel on beer sold for consumption in the United States. However, any brewer with annual production under two million barrels instead pays federal excise tax in the amount of $7 per barrel on sales of the first 60,000 barrels. While we are not aware of any plans by the federal government to reduce or eliminate this benefit to small brewers, any such reduction in a material amount could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we would lose the benefit of this rate structure if we exceeded the two million barrel production threshold. Individual states also impose excise taxes on alcoholic beverages in varying amounts, which have also been subject to change. It is possible that excise taxes will be increased in the future by both federal and state governments. In addition, increased excise taxes on alcoholic beverages have in the past been considered in connection with various 22 Table of Contents governmental budget-balancing or funding proposals. Any such increases in excise taxes, if enacted, could adversely affect our financial condition. Loss of income tax benefits could negatively impact results of operations. As of December 31, 2005, we had federal net operating tax loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) of $30.2 million, or $10.3 million tax-effected; federal alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards of $135,000; and state NOL carryforwards of $500,000 tax-effected. The federal NOLs expire from 2012 through 2024; the alternative minimum tax credit can be utilized to offset regular tax liabilities in future years and has no expiration date; and the state NOLs expire from 2006 through 2019. Federal NOLs, generally permitted to be carried forward no more than 20 years, and state NOLs, generally permitted to be carried forward 5 to 15 years, can be used to offset regular tax liabilities in future years. Based upon the available evidence, we believe it is more likely than not that all of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. Accordingly, we established a valuation allowance in 2002 and increased it further in 2003, 2004 and 2005 to cover certain federal and state NOLs that may expire before we are able to utilize the tax benefit. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the valuation allowance totaled $1,656,000 and $1,154,000, respectively. To the extent that we are unable to generate adequate taxable income in future periods, we will not be able to recognize additional tax benefits and may be required to record a greater valuation allowance covering potentially expiring NOLs. We are dependent upon the services of our key personnel. We depend on the services of our key management personnel, including Paul Shipman, our chief executive officer, and David Mickelson, our president and chief financial officer. If we lose the services of any members of our senior management or key personnel for any reason, we may be unable to replace them with qualified personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our executive officers. We are subject to the risks of litigation. At any given time, we are subject to claims and actions incidental to the operation of our business. The outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted. If a plaintiff were successful in a claim against our company, we could be faced with the payment of a material sum of money. If this were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 Table of Contents 