Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, should be carefully considered in evaluating our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that do not currently appear to be important to an investor, if they materialize, may also impair our business operations. We operate in a market environment that is difficult to predict and that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. If any of the events, contingencies, circumstances or conditions described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed. If that happens, the trading price of our Common Stock could decline and you may lose part or all of the value of any shares held by you. Solely for purposes of the risk factors in this Item 1A., the terms “we”, “our” and “us” refer to Redhook Ale Brewery, Incorporated. We are dependent upon our continuing relationship with Anheuser-Busch, Incorporated. Substantially all of our products will be sold and distributed through the A-B Distribution Agreement and through Craft Brands. Craft Brands distributes Redhook products through a separate distribution arrangement with A-B. If our relationship with A-B, our relationship with Craft Brands or the relationship between A-B and Craft Brands were to deteriorate, distribution of our products would suffer significant disruption and such event would have a long-term severe negative impact on our sales and results of operations, as it would be extremely difficult for us to rebuild our own distribution network. We believe that the benefits of the A-B Distribution Agreement and our relationship with A-B and Craft Brands, in particular the distribution and material cost efficiencies, offset the costs associated with the relationship. However, there can be no assurance that these costs will not have a negative impact on our sales and results of operations in the future. 19 Table of Contents Our agreement with A-B contains limitations on our ability to engage in or reject certain transactions, including acquisitions and changes of control. The Exchange and Recapitalization Agreement with A-B contains limitations on our ability to take certain actions without the prior consent of A-B, or without offering to A-B a right of first refusal, including the following: • issuing equity securities; • acquiring or selling assets or stock; • amending our Articles of Incorporation or bylaws; • granting board representation rights; • entering into certain transactions with affiliates; • distributing our products in the U.S. other than through A-B, Craft Brands or as provided in the A-B Distribution Agreement; • distributing or licensing the production of any malt beverage product in any country outside of the U.S.; • voluntarily delisting or terminating our listing on the Nasdaq Stock Market; or • disposing of any of our interest in Craft Brands. Further, if the A-B Distribution Agreement is terminated, or the distribution of Redhook products is terminated by Craft Brands, A-B has the right to solicit and negotiate offers from third parties to purchase all or substantially all of the assets or securities of Redhook or to enter into a merger or consolidation transaction with our Company and the right to cause our board of directors to consider any such offer. Additionally, as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, A-B owned approximately 33.1% and 33.3%, respectively, of our Common Stock. As long as A-B owns a substantial portion of our outstanding Common Stock, it may have the ability to approve or block actions requiring the approval of our shareholders. Our investment in Craft Brands Alliance LLC may not provide anticipated benefits. We believe that Craft Brands’ combined sales and marketing organization creates synergies and capitalizes on both Redhook’s and Widmer’s sales and marketing experience and complementary product portfolios. We have realized a decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses when compared to levels prior to the formation of Craft Brands and we have recognized income of $2,826,000 in 2007, $2,655,000 in 2006 and $2,392,000 in 2005 from our investment in Craft Brands. However, Craft Brands has only been operational since July 2004 and predicting future benefits from Crafts Brands is difficult. There can be no assurance that we will see any further or anticipated benefits from the joint venture. Shipments of our products in the Western Territory have declined since the formation of Craft Brands; 2007 shipments were approximately 7.5% lower than 2004 shipments in the same territory and approximately 0.6% lower than 2006 shipments. Pricing of our products has increased and the level of promotion and discounting has declined, allowing us to achieve higher revenue per barrel. However, management believes there is a direct correlation to lower sales caused by higher net pricing. During this same period, Craft Brands has been very successful selling the Widmer and Kona products. Although we enjoy the benefits of those successes through our profit-sharing arrangement with Craft Brands, we believe it is critical for Craft Brands to deliver success with the Redhook products in addition to the other products. We have communicated this concern to Craft Brands, and we are working with Craft Brands to establish new brand management throughout the portfolio of Redhook products. Craft Brands also responded to this concern by re-emphasizing their commitment to Redhook products and focusing its sales efforts on our Long Hammer IPA. Although this attention has resulted in an increase in shipments of Long Hammer IPA in 2007 over 2006 levels, shipments of other Redhook products in the Western Territory have not shown similar improvement. We continue to work with Craft Brands management to improve performance. If Craft Brands is unable to increase shipments of our products in the west, our operations will become more dependent on lower margin contract brewing and profit margins will suffer. The Operating Agreement requires us to make certain capital contributions to support the operations of Craft Brands. In 2004, we made a sales and marketing capital contribution to Craft Brands in the amount of 20 Table of Contents $250,000. The Operating Agreement designated this sales and marketing capital contribution be used by Craft Brands for expenses related to the marketing, advertising and promotion of Redhook products. In February 2007 and in February 2008, we entered into an amendment to the Operating Agreement to require an additional sales and marketing contribution in 2009 if the volume of sales of Redhook products in 2008 in the Craft Brands territory is less than 92% of the volume of sales of Redhook products in 2003 in the Craft Brands territory. Under these amendments, our maximum 2009 sales and marketing contribution was reduced to $310,000, reflecting our commitment to expand the production capacity of our Washington and New Hampshire breweries to produce more Widmer products. Widmer also has a sales and marketing contribution under the amended Operating Agreement with similar terms that is capped at $750,000. If required, the 2009 sales and marketing contribution is due by February 1, 2009. Because sales in the craft beer industry generally reflect a degree of seasonality and we have historically operated with little or no backlog, our ability to predict sales for future periods is limited. Accordingly, we cannot predict to what degree, if at all, we will be required to make this 2009 sales and marketing contribution. If we are required to make this additional sales and marketing contribution in 2009, our available cash will decrease and income from Craft Brands will decrease by the amount of the contribution, which will be allocated 100% to us. The Operating Agreement also obligates us and Widmer to make other additional capital contributions only upon the request and consent of the Craft Brands’ board of directors. The proposed Merger with Widmer Brothers Brewing Company may not occur, and failure to complete the transaction may have a negative impact on our stock price or our future business and financial results. On November 13, 2007, we entered into the Merger Agreement with Widmer, pursuant to which Widmer will merge with and into Redhook. In connection with the merger, each holder of shares of common or preferred stock of Widmer will receive, in exchange for each share held, 2.1551 shares of our Common Stock. Redhook security holders will continue to own their existing shares of Redhook Common Stock. The shares of Redhook Common Stock that Widmer security holders will be entitled to receive pursuant to the merger are expected to represent approximately 50% of the outstanding shares of the combined company immediately following the consummation of the merger (assuming that no security holder of Widmer exercises dissenters’ rights in connection with the merger, and that currently outstanding options held by our employees, officers, directors and former directors to acquire shares of Redhook Common Stock are not exercised prior to the consummation of merger). The merger is subject to customary conditions to closing, including regulatory approval, approval of A-B, approval by our shareholders of the issuance of the shares of Common Stock issuable in the merger and approval of the merger by the requisite vote of Widmer shareholders. If the merger with Widmer is not completed for any reason, our business may be adversely affected and will be subject to a number of risks, including: • failure to pursue other beneficial opportunities as a result of the focus of management on the merger, without realizing any of the anticipated benefits of completing the transaction; • the market price of our Common Stock might decline; and • our costs related to the merger, such as legal and accounting fees, which total approximately $738,000 through December 31, 2007, must be paid even if the merger is not completed. In addition, if the Merger Agreement is terminated and our board of directors decides to pursue another business combination, there can be no assurance that it will be able to find a partner willing to provide equivalent or more attractive consideration than the consideration to be provided in the merger. Additionally, our current employees may experience uncertainty about their future as employees of the combined company until strategies with regard to the combined company are announced or executed. This may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel, and may affect their performance during the period of uncertainty. We have attempted to address this concern through the adoption of a Company-wide severance plan that requires the payment of six months of severance benefits to all full-time employees, other than executive officers, in the event an employee is terminated as a result of a combination with Widmer. We have also entered into amended employment agreements and severance arrangements with several of our executive officers which provide for severance payments to such officers upon termination of employment. However, these severance arrangements may not be sufficient to adequately address employee concerns. 21 Table of Contents We are dependent on our distributors for the sale of our products. Although substantially all of our products will be sold and distributed through A-B and Craft Brands, we continue to rely heavily on distributors, most of which are independent wholesalers, for the sale of our products to retailers. K&L is responsible for distribution of our products in one of our largest markets — Seattle, Washington. K&L accounted for approximately 8%, 11% and 12% of total sales volume in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. A disruption of our ability, or the ability of Craft Brands, the wholesalers, or A-B to distribute products efficiently due to any significant operational problems, such as wide-spread labor union strikes, the loss of K&L as a customer, or the termination of the A-B Distribution Agreement or the Craft Brands Supply and Distribution Agreement could hinder our ability to get our products to retailers and could have a material adverse impact on our sales and results of operations. Changes in state laws regarding distribution arrangements may adversely impact our operations. In 2006, the Washington State legislature passed a bill that removes the long-standing requirement that small producers of wine and beer distribute their products through wholesale distributors, thus permitting these small producers to distribute their products directly to retailers. The law further provides that any in-state or out-of-state brewery that produces more than 2,500 barrels annually may distribute its products directly to retailers if it does so from a facility located in the state that is physically separate and distinct from its production facilities. The new legislation stipulates that prices charged by a brewery must be uniform to all distributors and retailers, but does not restrict prices retailers may charge consumers. While it is too soon to predict what impact, if any, this law will have on our operations, the beer and wine market may experience an increase in competition and cause our future sales and results of operations to be adversely affected. This law may also impact the financial stability of Washington State wholesalers on which we rely. Increased competition could adversely affect sales and results of operations. We compete in the highly competitive craft brewing market as well as in the much larger specialty beer market, which encompasses producers of import beers, major national brewers that produce fuller-flavored products, and large spirit companies and national brewers that produce flavored alcohol beverages. Beyond the beer market, craft brewers also face competition from producers of wines and spirits. Primarily as a result of this increased competition, we have experienced inconsistent sales results. From 1997 through 1999, our sales volumes declined. From 2000 to 2003 we experienced annual increases in shipments, excluding shipments of beer brewed on a contract basis, but experience a deline in shipments again in 2004. Although we have seen annual increases in shipments since 2004, these increases have been modest compared to the performance of the craft brewing segment as a whole. Increasing competition could cause our future sales and results of operations to be adversely affected. We have historically operated with little or no backlog and, therefore, our ability to predict sales for future periods is limited. Future price promotions to generate demand for our products may be unsuccessful. Future prices that we charge for our products may decrease from historical levels, depending on competitive factors in our various markets. In order to stimulate demand for our products, we have participated in price promotions with our wholesalers and retail customers in most of our markets. The number of markets in which we participate in price promotions and the frequency of such promotions may increase in the future. There can be no assurance however that our price promotions will be successful in increasing demand for our products. Due to our concentration of sales in the Pacific Northwest, our results of operations and financial condition are subject to fluctuations in regional economic conditions. A significant portion of our sales continue to be in the Pacific Northwest region and, consequently, our business may be adversely affected by changes in economic and business conditions nationally and, particularly, within the Northwest region. We believe this region is also one of the most competitive craft beer markets in the U.S., both in terms of number of market participants and consumer awareness. We believe that the Pacific Northwest offers significant competition to our products, not only from other craft brewers but also from the growing wine market and from flavored alcohol beverages. We face extreme competitive pressure in Washington State which is our largest and oldest market. Since 2003, we have experienced a decline in sales volume in Washington State of approximately 18.5%. 22 Table of Contents The competition that we face in the Pacific Northwest is magnified because our brand is viewed as being relatively mature. Focus studies in late 2004 indicated that, while our brand possesses brand awareness among target consumers, it also appears to not attract key consumers who seem to be more interested in experimenting with new products. These focus studies have resulted in Craft Brands focusing its marketing efforts over the past several years on updating the Redhook brand image to stimulate demand. Despite these efforts, sales in the Pacific Northwest continued to decline in 2006 and 2007. Craft Brands has informed us that they are committed to addressing this negative trend in the western territory, but there can be no assurance that Craft Brands will be successful in increasing shipments and sales of Redhook product. If shipments of our products in the highly competitive Pacific Northwest markets do not increase, our market share and profit margins will continue to suffer. Our business is seasonal in nature, and we are likely to experience fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. Sales of our products are somewhat seasonal, with the first and fourth quarters historically being the slowest and the rest of the year generating stronger sales. As well, our sales volume may also be affected by weather conditions. Therefore, our results for any quarter may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year. If an adverse event such as a regional economic downturn or poor weather conditions should occur during the second and third quarters, the adverse impact to our revenues would likely be greater as a result of our seasonal business. Our gross margins may fluctuate while our expenses remain constant. We anticipate that our future gross margins will fluctuate and may even decline as a result of many factors, including shipments to Craft Brands at a fixed price substantially below wholesale pricing levels, disproportionate depreciation and other fixed and semivariable operating costs, and the level of production at our breweries in relation to current production capacity. Our high level of fixed and semivariable operating costs causes gross margin to be especially sensitive to relatively small increases or decreases in sales volume. In addition, other factors beyond our control that could affect cost of sales include changes in freight charges, the availability and prices of raw materials and packaging materials, the mix between draft and bottled product sales, the sales mix of various bottled product packages, and federal or state excise taxes. An increase in lower margin contract brewing could negatively impact our overall profit margins. In connection with our Supply and Distribution Agreement with Craft Brands, if shipments of Redhook products in the western territory decrease as compared to the previous year’s shipments, we have the contractual right to brew Widmer products in an amount equal to the lower of (i) our product shipment decrease or (ii) the Widmer product shipment increase. We refer to this contractual right as our Contractual Obligation. In 2007, we brewed and shipped 3,500 barrels of Widmer beer from our Washington Brewery under this Contractual Obligation. At Widmer’s discretion, we may also brew more beer for Widmer than the Contractual Obligation amount pursuant to a Manufacturing and Licensing Agreement with Widmer. Our Manufacturing and Licensing Agreement with Widmer expires on December 31, 2008. In 2007, we brewed and shipped 78,400 barrels of Widmer product under this agreement. Driven by the Contractual Obligation, as well as Widmer’s production needs, we anticipate that contract brewing in 2008 will decrease over 2007 levels. Contract brewing has lower margins compared to sales of Redhook products. We are dependent on contract brewing to keep our production facilities operating at an efficient capacity; a decrease in contract brewing could have an unfavorable and significant financial impact on our financial statements and results of operations. Widmer has notified us that they will be bringing additional brewing capacity on line in the first half of 2008, which will significantly reduce our level of contract brewing for Widmer out of our Washington Brewery. We are currently evaluating alternatives to utilize the capacity that will become available upon the termination of the contract brewing, including entering into new contract brewing arrangements with other parties. If we are unable to replace the Widmer contract brewing, or achieve significant growth through our own products, the resulting loss of revenue and the resulting excess capacity and unabsorbed overhead in the Washington Brewery would have an adverse effect on our financial performance. Changes in consumer preferences or public attitudes about our products could reduce demand. If consumers were unwilling to accept our products, or if general consumer trends caused a decrease in the 23 Table of Contents demand for beer, including craft beer, it would adversely impact our sales and results of operations. If the flavored alcohol beverage market, the wine market, or the spirits market continues to grow, they could draw consumers away from our products and have an adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Further, the alcoholic beverage industry has become the subject of considerable societal and political attention in recent years due to increasing public concern over alcohol-related social problems, including drunk driving, underage drinking and health consequences from the misuse of alcohol. If beer consumption in general were to come into disfavor among domestic consumers, or if the domestic beer industry were subjected to significant additional governmental regulation, our operations could be adversely affected. We are subject to governmental regulations affecting our breweries and pubs; the costs of complying with governmental regulations, or our failure to comply with such regulations, could affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our breweries and our pubs are subject to licensing and regulation by a number of governmental authorities, including the U.S. Treasury Department, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, or the TTB, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, state alcohol regulatory agencies in the states in which we sell our products, and state and local health, sanitation, safety, fire and environmental agencies. Our failure to comply with applicable federal, state or local regulations could result in limitations on our ability to conduct business. TTB permits can be revoked for failure to pay taxes, to keep proper accounts, to pay fees, to bond premises, to abide by federal alcoholic beverage production and distribution regulations, or if holders of 10% or more of our equity securities are found to be of questionable character. TTB permits are also required in connection with establishing a commercial brewery, expanding or modifying existing brewing operations, entering into a contract brewing arrangement, and entering into an alternating brewery agreement. Other permits or licenses can be revoked if we fail to comply with the terms of such permits or licenses, and additional permits or licenses could be required in the future for our existing or expanded operations. If licenses, permits or approvals necessary for our brewery or pub operations were unavailable or unduly delayed, or if any such permits or licenses were revoked, our ability to conduct business could be substantially and adversely affected. Our brewery operations are also subject to environmental regulations and local permitting requirements and agreements regarding, among other things, air emissions, water discharges, and the handling and disposal of wastes. We have no reason to believe the operations of our facilities violate any such regulation or requirement. However, if such a violation were to occur, or if environmental regulations became more stringent in the future, our business could be adversely affected. We are also subject to “dram shop” laws, which generally provide a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Our pubs have addressed this concern by establishing early closing hours and regularly scheduled employee training. However, large uninsured damage awards against our Company could adversely affect our financial condition. We may experience material losses in excess of insurance coverage. We believe that we maintain insurance coverage that is customary for businesses of our size and type. There are, however, certain types of catastrophic losses that are not generally insured because it is not economically feasible to insure against such losses. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, such loss could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Declining sales trends could adversely affect brewery efficiency and our financial results. Our breweries have been operating at production levels substantially below their current and maximum designed capacities. Operating our breweries at low capacity utilization rates negatively impacts our gross margins and operating cash flows generated by the production facilities. We periodically evaluate whether we expect to recover the costs of our production facilities over the course of their useful lives. If facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these long-lived assets may be impaired, we will perform an evaluation of recoverability in accordance with FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets. This evaluation will encompass a comparison of the carrying value of the assets to a projection of future undiscounted cash flows from the assets in addition to an analysis 24 Table of Contents of other quantitative and qualitative factors. If our management believes that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable, we will recognize an impairment loss by a charge against current operations. An increase in excise taxes could adversely affect our financial condition. The U.S. federal government currently imposes an excise tax of $18 per barrel on beer sold for consumption in the U.S. However, any brewer with annual production under two million barrels instead pays federal excise tax in the amount of $7 per barrel on sales of the first 60,000 barrels. While we are not aware of any plans by the federal government to reduce or eliminate this benefit to small brewers, any such reduction in a material amount could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we would lose the benefit of this rate structure if we exceeded the two million barrel production threshold. Individual states also impose excise taxes on alcoholic beverages in varying amounts, which have also been subject to change. It is possible that excise taxes will be increased in the future by both federal and state governments in connection with various governmental budget-balancing or funding proposals or for other reasons. Any such increases in excise taxes, if enacted, could adversely affect our financial condition. We may experience a shortage in kegs necessary to distribute draft beer. We distribute our draft beer in kegs that are owned by us as well as leased from A-B and a third-party vendor. During periods when we experience stronger sales, we may need to rely on kegs leased from A-B and the third-party vendor to address the additional demand. If shipments of draft beer increase, we may experience a shortage of available kegs to fill sales orders. If we cannot meet our keg requirements through either lease or purchase, we may be required to delay some draft shipments. Such delays could have an adverse impact on sales and relationships with wholesalers and A-B. In addition, we may decide to pursue other alternatives for leasing or purchasing kegs. There is no assurance, though, that we will be successful in securing additional kegs. Our key raw materials may become significantly more costly and adequate supplies may be difficult to secure. According to industry and media sources, the price of barley, a primary ingredient in most of our beers, increased 48% from August 2006 through June 2007. The significant price increase is apparently driven by a lower supply of barley as farmers shift their focus to growing corn, a key component of biofuels. While we have historically utilized fixed price contracts to secure adequate supplies of key raw materials, including barley, recent fixed price contracts reflect current market pricing that is significantly higher than historical pricing. In addition to a decline in the supply of barley, the beer industry also appears to be experiencing a decline in the supply of hops driven by a number of factors, including: excess supply in the 1990s led some growers to switch to more lucrative crops, resulting in an estimated 40% decrease in worldwide hop-growing acreage; poor weather in eastern Europe and Germany caused substantial hops crop losses in 2007; hops crop production in England has declined approximately 85% since the mid-1970s; and 2007 U.S., New Zealand, and Australia hops crop yields were only average. We have also entered into fixed price purchase contracts for our specialty hops, both to assure the necessary supply for current and future production needs, but also to obtain favorable pricing. However, if we experience difficulty in securing key raw materials or experience an increase in the cost of these materials, our gross margins and results of operations will be negatively effected. Loss of income tax benefits could negatively impact results of operations. As of December 31, 2007, our Company’s deferred tax assets were primarily comprised of federal net operating loss carryforwards, which we refer to as NOLs, of $24.7 million, or $8.4 million tax-effected; federal and state alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards of $185,000; and state NOL carryforwards of $196,000 tax-effected. We may be unable to realize these deferred tax assets before they expire. Accordingly, we established a valuation allowance in 2002, increased it further in 2003, 2004, and 2005 and decreased it in 2006 to cover certain federal and state NOLs that may expire before we are able to utilize the tax benefit. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had a valuation allowance of $1,059,000. The valuation allowance reduces the benefit of our deferred tax asset on our balance sheet. To the extent that we continue to be unable to generate adequate taxable income in future periods, we will not be able to recognize additional tax benefits and may be required to record a greater valuation allowance covering potentially expiring NOLs. The loss of the services of certain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on operations. We depend on the services of our key management personnel, including Paul Shipman, our chief executive officer, and David Mickelson, our president. If we lose the services of any members of our senior management or key 25 Table of Contents personnel for any reason, we may be unable to replace them with qualified personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Additionally, the loss of Paul Shipman as our chief executive officer, and our failure to find a replacement satisfactory to A-B, would be a default under the A-B Distribution Agreement. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our executive officers. Litigation risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. At any given time, we are subject to claims and actions incidental to the operation of our business. The outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted. If a plaintiff were successful in a claim against our Company, we could be faced with the payment of a material sum of money. If this were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Our common stock price could be subject to significant fluctuations and/or may decline. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • the entry into, or termination of, key agreements; • the loss of key employees; • the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock • future sales of our common stock; • variations in our operating results; • changes in the market values of public companies that operate in our business segment; • general market conditions; and • domestic economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock markets in general have recently experienced volatility that has sometimes been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 