ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSIf any of the following risks actually occur, our results of operations, cash flows and the market price of our common stock could be negatively impacted. Although we believe that we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our performance or financial condition.The following risk factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from the statements we make from time to time regarding our expected future results, including, but not limited to, forecasts regarding estimated revenue, earnings per share or cash flow from our operating activities. Any forecast regarding our future performance reflects various assumptions and is subject to significant uncertainties and risks that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those described in the forecast, including the risks reflected in the risk factors set forth below. Consequently, no forecast or other forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and the variation of actual results or events from such statements may be material and adverse.Adverse economic conditions, particularly those affecting our customers, resellers and distributors, have harmed and may continue to harm our business.Unfavorable changes in economic conditions, including recession, inflation, lack of access to capital, lack of consumer confidence or other changes have resulted and may continue to result in lower spending among customers in the industries we serve. Unfavorable economic conditions have also resulted and may continue to result in decreased sales to our resellers and distributors.Further, we sell our products throughout the United States, as well as in several foreign countries to commercial and government customers. Our business may be adversely affected by factors in the United States and other countries such as disruptions in financial markets, reductions in government spending, or downturns in economic activity in specific countries or regions, or in the various industries in which we operate; social, political or labor conditions in specific countries or regions; or adverse changes in the availability and cost of capital, interest rates, tax rates, or regulations. These factors are beyond our control, but may result in further decreases in spending among customers and softening demand for our products.Further, challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services they have purchased. As a result, our cash flow may be negatively impacted and our allowance for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase.Technology in our industry evolves rapidly, potentially causing our products to become obsolete, and we must continue to enhance existing products and develop new products to sustain and grow our business.Rapid technological advances, rapidly changing customer requirements and fluctuations in demand characterize the current market for our products. Further, technology substitution is negatively impacting our revenues from our disc publishing products. Our existing and development-stage products may become obsolete if our competitors introduce newer or more appealing technologies. 10Table of ContentsIf these technologies are patented or proprietary to our competitors, we may not be able to access these technologies. We believe that we must continue to innovate and anticipate advances in the content distribution industry in order to remain competitive. If we fail to anticipate or respond to technological developments or customer requirements, or if we are significantly delayed in developing and introducing products, our revenues will decline.Because the market for our disc publishing business is mature and our products face competition from other technologies, we expect this business to decline over time.Disc publishing is a significant part of our business. However, the market for our disc publishing products is mature. Further, technology substitution is occurring within this market. Our disc publishing products compete with online distribution, cloud file sharing and alternative technologies in the storage media industry, such as high capacity hard drives, tape drives and flash memory. We expect technology substitution to be the primary competitive force impacting our disc publishing business over the next several years. Due to the maturity of the market for our disc publishing products and competitive pressures, we expect that the demand for our disc publishing products will decline over time, that the prices for these products may decline in response to competitive pressures, and in general, that the opportunities for revenue growth from these products will be limited. Accordingly, we expect that these factors will cause our revenue growth from these products to stagnate or to decline over time. However, the rate and the extent to which these factors will cause changes in our disc publishing business cannot be predicted with certainty. A surge in the popularity of any of these alternative technologies, or our inability to successfully offset the decline in demand for our disc publishing products with other sources of revenue, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and prospects.The acquisition of Qumu could result in operating difficulties and other harmful consequences that may adversely impact our business and results of operations. We acquired Qumu, Inc. by merger in October 2011. The process of integrating the Qumu business into the existing Rimage business may involve operating difficulties and expense. The areas where we face risks include: •Diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to the integration challenges;•Retention of Qumu customers;•Cultural challenges associated with integrating Qumu sales employees into our organization and retention of these employees, as well as retention of our current sales and other employees during this period of change at our company;•Challenges associated with integrating and capitalizing on the Qumu technologies;•Managing larger and more widespread operations resulting from the Qumu acquisition;•Development of and expansion of the U.S. and international markets for the Qumu product; and •Integrating the content distribution functionalities of our secure online content delivery solution, Signal, with the Qumu solution.Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with the Qumu integration could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of this transaction, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally.We may not be successful at implementing our growth strategy.In 2010, we began a multi-year process aimed at transforming Rimage into a higher-performing business. Our strategy includes strengthening and sustaining our disc publishing business; generating new revenue streams by leveraging our core capabilities and transitioning from a hardware supplier into a provider of total solutions; and identifying and investing in future opportunities in adjacent markets with strong growth potential. We are now focused on expanding our product offering beyond our disc publishing business with industry-leading solutions that allow us to distribute live, on-demand and downloaded content for a broad range of applications, on any mobile or desktop device. We believe that this strategy will allow us to mitigate the challenges faced by our mature disc publishing business and capitalize on emerging technologies that address the content distribution needs of our customers.We have pursued this strategy by investing in development of new products, such as our secure online content delivery solution, Signal, and by making acquisitions of products and technologies that we believe further our strategy, such as our acquisition of the Qumu products for enterprise video communications. Signal is now part of the Qumu product family, which together form our enterprise content distribution software business. We expect to continue to pursue this strategy through internal growth and possible acquisitions.11Table of ContentsWe cannot ensure that this growth strategy will be successful either in the short-term or in the long-term, or that this strategy will generate a positive return on our investment. Further, if customer preferences and the content distribution industry do not evolve as we believe they will, many of our strategic initiatives and investments may be of limited value. Moreover, we may not execute successfully on our growth strategy because of errors in product planning or timing, technical hurdles that we fail to overcome in a timely fashion, or lack of appropriate resources. Our growth strategy for our recently acquired Qumu enterprise video communications business includes expanding sales of these products internationally. We may not be successful in achieving significant sales of these products internationally due to sales distribution challenges or other factors. Our failure to successfully execute on our growth strategy, even if the strategy is sound, could result in competitors providing products before we do and loss of market share and sales. Additionally, if we do not effectively communicate our growth strategy to our investors and stakeholders, we may not realize the full benefits that we would otherwise gain through successful execution of that strategy.Because of our change in strategic direction in 2010, our historical financial results may not be indicative of our future financial results. Further, because our operating history with respect to our enterprise content distribution software business is limited, our current financial results may provide only a limited basis for investors to assess our current or future business as a whole. We may not be successful in developing new products that further our growth strategy.Our growth strategy includes the development and commercialization of new products, features and functionalities designed to increase revenue and drive earnings growth. The process of developing new technology is complex and uncertain, and if we fail to accurately predict customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends, our business could be harmed. We must commit significant resources to developing new products and features before knowing whether our investments will result in products the market will accept. We may not currently possess the proper skills to effectively develop and market new products or to achieve success in new markets. The success of new products depends on several factors, including proper new product definition, development costs, timely completion and introduction of these products, differentiation of new products from those of our competitors, and market acceptance of these products. There can be no assurance that we will develop and bring new products to market in a timely manner, or achieve market acceptance of our products or that products and technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive.We have been investing in initiatives that we believe further our strategy and if the return on these investments is lower or develops more slowly than we expect, our operating results may be harmed.We have been dedicating resources to our enterprise content distribution software business that we believe further our growth strategy to distribute live, on-demand and downloaded content for a broad range of applications, on any mobile or desktop device. However, the return on our investments in initiatives may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected. We face intense competition in all areas of our business and such competition may result in price reductions, lower gross profits and loss of market share.Our products face intense competition, both from other products and from other technologies, both in the U.S. and in foreign markets. In our Qumu enterprise content distribution software business, we compete with others such as Cisco, Polycom, vBrick, Ignite and Kontiki who deliver video content to businesses. We expect the intensity of competition we face to increase in the future from other established and emerging companies. In our disc publishing business, we compete with other providers of disc publishing systems and solutions, such as Seiko Epson Corporation, Primera Technology, Inc., Teac America, Inc., and Microtech Systems, Inc. Our disc publishing products also compete with online distribution, cloud file sharing and alternative technologies in the storage media industry, such as high capacity hard drives, tape drives and flash memory. Some of our competitors, particularly competitors for our enterprise content distribution software products, may have greater resources than we do, including greater sales, product development, marketing, financial, technical or engineering resources. To remain competitive, we believe that we must continue to provide:•Technologically advanced products and solutions that anticipate and satisfy the demands of end-users;•Continuing advancements or innovations in our product offerings, including products with price-performance advantages or value-added features in security, reliability or other key areas of customer interest;•Innovations in digital content distribution;12Table of Contents•A responsive and effective sales force;•A dependable and efficient sales distribution network;•Superior customer service; and•High levels of quality and reliability.We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. Competition may result in price reductions, lower gross profit margins, increased discounts to customers and loss of market share, and could require increased spending by us on research and development, sales and marketing and customer support.We encounter long sales cycles with our enterprise content distribution software products, which could adversely affect our operating results in a given period. Our ability to increase revenues and maintain profitability depends, in large part, on widespread acceptance of our enterprise content distribution software products by large businesses and other organizations. As we target our sales efforts at these customers, we face greater costs, longer sales cycles and less predictability in completing some of our sales. In the large enterprise market, the customer's decision to use our products may be an enterprise-wide decision and, therefore, these types of sales require us to provide greater levels of education regarding the use and benefits of our applications. In addition, because our enterprise content distribution software business is relatively new with a limited operating history, our target customers may prefer to purchase software products that are critical to their business from one of our larger, more established competitors. Longer sales cycles could cause our operating and financial results to suffer in a given period. The growth and functionality of our enterprise content distribution software products depend upon the solution's effective operation with mobile operating systems and computer networks. Our enterprise content distribution software products are currently compatible with various mobile operating systems including the iOS, Windows Mobile and Android operating systems. The functionality of our content distribution software products depends upon the continued interoperability of these products with popular mobile operating systems. Any changes in these systems that degrade our products' functionality or give preferential treatment to competitive offerings could adversely affect the operability and usage of our content distribution software products on mobile devices. Additionally, in order to deliver a high quality user experience, it is important that our products work well with a range of mobile technologies, systems, and networks. We may not be successful in keeping pace with changes in mobile technologies, operating systems, or networks or in developing products that operate effectively within existing or future technologies, systems, and networks. Further, any significant changes to mobile operating systems by their respective developers may prevent our products from working properly or at all on these systems. In the event that it is more difficult for users to access content delivered by our solutions to their mobile devices, if our products do not operate effectively within the most popular operating systems or if popular mobile devices do not offer a high quality user experience, sales of and customer demand for our software products could be harmed.Our enterprise content distribution software products must be successfully integrated into other workflows and changes to these workflows may harm our software products.A significant portion of our sales are made into applications that require our enterprise content distribution software products to be integrated into other enterprise workflows or software functionalities. Any significant changes to enterprise workflows or software programs may limit the use or functionality of or demand for our products. As our customers advance technologically, we must be able to effectively integrate our products within their workflows to remain competitive. Further, current and potential customers may choose to use products offered by our competitors or may not purchase our products if our products would require changes in their existing enterprise workflows or software.If the limited amount of open source software that is incorporated into our Qumu enterprise content distribution software products were to become unavailable or if we violate the terms of open source licenses, it could adversely affect sales of our products, which could disrupt our business and harm our financial results.Our Qumu enterprise content distribution software products incorporate a limited amount of “open source” software. Open source software is made available to us and to the public by its authors or other third parties under licenses that impose certain obligations on licensees that re-distribute or make derivative works of the open source software. We may not be able to replace the functionality provided by the open source software currently incorporated in our Qumu products if that software becomes unavailable, obsolete or incompatible with future versions of the Qumu products. In addition, we must carefully monitor our compliance with the licensing requirements applicable to that open source software. If Qumu has failed or if in the future we fail to comply with the applicable license requirements, we might lose the right to use the subject open source software. The terms of some open source licenses would require us to give our customers significant rights to open source software that is subject to those licenses and is 13Table of Contentsincorporated in Qumu products. This would include the right to obtain from us the source code form of that open source software, and the right to use, modify and distribute that open source software to others. We may be required to provide these rights to customers on a royalty-free basis. Those rights might also extend to modifications and additions we make to the subject open source software. That open source software, and those modifications and additions, also might be obtained by our competitors and used in competing products. The enforceability and interpretation of open source licenses remains uncertain under applicable law. Unfavorable court decisions could require us to replace open source software incorporated in our products. In some cases this might require us to obtain licenses to commercial software under terms that restrict our use of that commercial software and require us to pay royalties. In some cases we might need to redesign our Qumu products, or to discontinue the sale of our Qumu products if a redesign could not be accomplished on a timely basis. These same consequences result if our use of any open source software or commercial software is found to infringe any intellectual property right of another party. Any of these occurrences would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may experience significant quarterly and annual fluctuations in our results of operations due to a number of factors. Our quarterly and annual results of operations may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. This variability may lead to volatility in our stock price as research analysts and investors respond to quarterly fluctuations. In addition, comparing our results of operations on a period-to-period basis, particularly on a sequential quarterly basis, may not be meaningful. It may be particularly difficult to make a comparison to our results of operations in periods prior to our acquisition of Qumu in October 2011. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Factors that may affect our results of operations include: •structure of our software licensing contracts, including customers' decisions to procure our products through a paid-up perpetual license, for which revenue is recognized upon delivery, or a term license, for which revenue is recognized over the term of the contract;•timing of customer purchase commitments, including the impact of long sales cycles and seasonal buying patterns;•variability in the size of customer purchases and the impact of large customer orders on a particular period;•reductions in our customers' budgets for information technology purchases and delays in their purchasing cycles, particularly in light of recent adverse global economic conditions;•future accounting pronouncements or changes in our accounting policies; and•the impact of a recession or any other adverse global economic conditions on our business, including uncertainties that may cause a delay in entering into or a failure to enter into significant customer agreements.The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially adversely affect our quarterly and annual results of operations. Failure to achieve our quarterly or annual forecasts or to meet or exceed the expectations of research analysts or investors will cause our stock price to decline. We sell a significant portion of our products internationally, which exposes us to risks associated with foreign operations.We sell a significant amount of our products to customers outside the United States, particularly in Europe, Asia and Latin America. International sales accounted for 35% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012, 38% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011, and 35% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010. We expect that shipments to international customers, including customers in Europe, Asia and Latin America, will continue to account for a significant portion of our net sales. Sales outside the United States involve the following risks, among others:•Foreign governments may impose tariffs, quotas and taxes;•The demand for our products will depend, in part, on local economic health;•Political and economic instability may reduce demand for our products;•Restrictions on the export or import of technology may reduce or eliminate our ability to sell in certain markets;•Potentially limited intellectual property protection in certain countries may limit our recourse against infringing products or cause us to refrain from selling in certain markets;14Table of Contents•Potential difficulties in managing our international operations;•The burden and cost of complying with a variety of foreign laws;•We may decide to price our products in foreign currency denominations;•Our contracts with foreign distributors and resellers cannot fully protect us against political and economic instability;•Potential challenges operating our majority-owned China joint venture in an emerging market characterized by strict government controls and working effectively with our joint venture partner;•Potential difficulties in collecting receivables; and•We may not be able to control our international distributors' efforts on our behalf.The financial results of our German and Japanese subsidiaries and majority-owned Chinese joint venture are translated into U.S. dollars for consolidation with our overall financial results. Additionally, we hedge against currency fluctuations associated with foreign currency denominated transactions (principally the Euro) with Rimage Europe. Despite our hedging activity, currency translations and fluctuations may adversely affect the financial performance of our consolidated operations. Currency fluctuations may also increase the relative price of our product in foreign markets and thereby could also cause our products to become less affordable or less price competitive than those of foreign manufacturers. These risks associated with foreign operations may have a material adverse effect on our revenue from or costs associated with international sales. If our domestic or international intellectual property rights are not adequately protected, others may offer products similar to ours which could depress our product selling prices and gross profit or result in loss of market share.We believe that protecting our proprietary technology is important to our success and competitive positioning. In addition to common law intellectual property rights, we rely on patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, know-how, license agreements and contractual provisions to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. However, these legal means afford us only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or remedies to gain or keep any advantages we may have over our competitors. Others may independently develop the same or similar technologies or otherwise obtain access to our technology and trade secrets. Our competitors, who may have or could develop or acquire significant resources, may make substantial investments in competing technologies, or may apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to manufacture or market our products. Further, although we do not believe that any of our products infringe on the rights of others, third parties have claimed, and may claim in the future, that our products infringe on their rights, and these third parties may assert infringement claims against us in the future. Costly litigation may be necessary to enforce patents issued to us, to protect trade secrets or “know-how” we own, to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others or to determine the ownership, scope, or validity of our proprietary rights and the rights of others. Any claim of infringement against us may involve significant liabilities to third parties, could require us to seek licenses from third parties, and could prevent us from manufacturing, selling, or using our products. The occurrence of this litigation, or the effect of an adverse determination in any of this type of litigation, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, the laws of some of the countries in which our products are or may be sold may not protect our products and intellectual property to the same extent as the United States or at all. Our failure to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Any failure of major elements of our enterprise content distribution software operations could lead to significant disruptions in the ability to serve customers, which could damage our reputation, reduce our revenues or otherwise harm our business.Our enterprise content distribution software business is dependent upon providing customers with fast, efficient and reliable services. A reduction in the performance, reliability or availability of required network infrastructure may harm our ability to distribute content to our customers, as well as our reputation and ability to attract and retain customers. Our content distribution software solutions and operations are susceptible to, and could be damaged or interrupted by outages caused by fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, Internet or mobile network breakdown, earthquake and similar events. Our solutions are also subject to human error, security breaches, power losses, computer viruses, break-ins, “denial of service” attacks, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and tampering designed to disrupt our computer systems and network communications. Our failure to protect our network against damage from any of these events could harm our business.15Table of ContentsOur content distribution software operations also depend on web browsers, ISPs (Internet service providers) and mobile networks to provide our customers' end-users with access to websites, streaming and mobile content. Many of these providers have experienced outages in the past, and could experience outages, delays and other difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our solutions. Any such outage, delay or difficulty could adversely affect our ability to effectively provide our content distribution software products and services, which would harm our business.Changes in laws and regulations related to the Internet or changes in the Internet infrastructure itself may diminish the demand for our products, and could have a negative impact on our business. The future success of our business depends in part upon the continued use of the Internet as a primary medium for commerce, communication and business applications. Federal, state or foreign government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws or regulations affecting the use of the Internet as a commercial medium. Changes in these laws or regulations could require us to modify our products in order to comply with these changes. In addition, government agencies or private organizations may begin to impose taxes, fees or other charges for accessing the Internet or commerce conducted via the Internet. These laws or charges could limit the growth of Internet-related commerce or communications generally, or result in reductions in the demand for Internet-based applications such as ours. In addition, the use of the Internet as a business tool could be adversely affected due to delays in the development or adoption of new standards and protocols to handle increased demands of Internet activity, security, reliability, cost, ease of use, accessibility, and quality of service. The performance of the Internet and its acceptance as a business tool has been adversely affected by “viruses,” “worms” and similar malicious programs and the Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure. If the use of the Internet is adversely affected by these issues, demand for our applications could suffer. Our sales will decline, and our business will be materially harmed, if our sales and marketing efforts are not effective.We will need to continue to expand and optimize our sales infrastructure in order to grow our customer base and our business. We plan to continue to expand our direct sales force, both domestically and internationally. Identifying and recruiting qualified personnel and training them in the use and functionality of our software requires significant time, expense and attention. It can take six months or longer before our sales representatives are fully-trained and productive. Our business may be adversely affected if our efforts to expand and train our direct sales force do not generate a corresponding increase in revenues. In particular, if we are unable to hire, develop and retain talented sales personnel or if new direct sales personnel are unable to achieve desired productivity levels in a reasonable period of time, we may not be able to realize the expected benefits of this investment or increase our revenues. For sales that are made to customers through value-added resellers, distributors or other strategic partners, we depend on these businesses to provide effective sales and marketing support to our products. Our resellers and distributors are independent businesses that we do not control. Our agreements with resellers and distributors do not contain requirements that a certain percentage of such parties' sales are of our products. Further, some of our channel partners are small organizations with limited capital, and our success in distributing our products to end-users will depend upon the continued viability and financial stability of these entities. These channel partners may choose to devote their efforts to other products in different markets or reduce or fail to devote the necessary resources to provide effective sales and marketing support of our products, any of which could harm our business by reducing sales to customers.We believe that our future growth and success will depend upon the success of our direct sales and marketing efforts as well as those of our value-added resellers, distributors or other strategic partners.Competition for highly skilled personnel is intense and if we fail to attract and retain talented employees, we may fail to compete effectively. Our future success depends, in significant part, on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization, particularly in our enterprise content distribution software business. Competition in our industry for qualified employees, particularly in senior management, product development and sales, is intense. In addition, our compensation arrangements, such as our equity award programs, may not always be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating our existing employees. Our ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. If we do not maintain adequate inventories of component parts or finished goods, or if we fail to adequately forecast demand, the likely resulting delays in producing our publishing systems would damage our business.We forecast production based on past sales and our estimates of future demand. In the event that we significantly underestimate our needs or encounter an unexpectedly high level of demand for our systems or our suppliers are unable to deliver our orders of 16Table of Contentscomponents in a timely manner, we may be unable to fill our product orders on time which could harm our reputation and result in reduced sales.We rely on single-source suppliers, which could cause delays, increases in costs or prevent us from completing customer orders, all of which could materially harm our business.We assemble our publishing systems using materials and components supplied by various subcontractors and suppliers. We purchase critical components for our systems, including our Everest printers, other printing components, DVD-R drives, Blu-ray drives, circuit boards, electric motors, machined and molded parts, precision sheet metal assemblies and mechanical parts from third parties. Some of our subcontractors and suppliers are the sole source of these components and these third parties may also own technology and manufacturing know-how required to manufacture critical components. If any of our suppliers is unable to ship critical components, we would be unable to assemble and ship products to our resellers or end-user customers. If the price of these components increases for any reason, or if these suppliers are unable or unwilling to deliver, we may have to find another source, which could result in interruptions, increased costs, delays, loss of sales and quality control problems. We purchase these components pursuant to our standard form of purchase order, submitted to the supplier from time to time as the components are needed.The termination or interruption of any of these relationships, or the failure of these manufacturers or suppliers to supply products or components to us on a timely basis or in sufficient quantities, likely would cause us to be unable to meet orders for our products and harm our reputation and our business. For the majority of our critical components, we have identified alternative suppliers. We depend upon a single-source supplier for our Everest printers and associated ribbons, and beginning in March 2010, our Rimage Professional Series systems. This single-source supplier is located in Japan. A disruption in the supply of these products and systems from this supplier would adversely affect our results of operations. Also, for these products, it is more difficult to identify an alternative supplier because of the proprietary information and technology currently held by this supplier. Although we own the rights to the technology, if we were unable to effectively transition the technology and proprietary information used by this supplier to alternative suppliers, the design and manufacture of these products to our specifications may be significantly delayed, resulting in potential production delays and significant expense. Further, if we obtain a new supplier for a component or product or use an alternative component in our product, we may need to conduct additional testing of our products to ensure the product meets our quality and performance standards. Any delays in delivery of our product to end-users, distributors or resellers could be extended, and our costs associated with the change in product manufacturing could increase. The failure of our components suppliers to supply us with the components consistent with our requirements as to quality, quantity and timeliness could materially harm our business by causing delays, loss of sales, increases in costs and lower gross profit margins.Natural disasters that affect our suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business.The manufacturing facilities of many of our suppliers for our disc publishing products are concentrated in certain geographic locations in Asia. Some of these geographic locations are particularly prone to floods, earthquakes, tsunamis or other natural disasters. Any disaster, condition or event that adversely affects any of these facilities, or disrupts cargo operations or freight lanes, would significantly affect our supply of components and products, which could impact our operating results by impairing our ability to timely and efficiently deliver our products. Our disc publishing products must be compatible with products designed and manufactured by others and, in the event of design changes or the introduction of new products by them or us, our products must continue to be compatible with products of others. Our disc publishing systems incorporate computer and related computer equipment, hardware and software manufactured by others. Our products are designed to provide end users with a fully-integrated publishing system and therefore, our products must operate with the computer and related equipment of others to function properly for end users. Problems with the products of others may adversely affect the performance and reliability of our publishing system products and damage our reputation with end users. Further, if there are changes in our products, changes in the computer or computer related equipment integrated into our products or if we offer new products, we must maintain compatibility and interoperability of our products with the products of others. We cannot assure you that we will be able to adapt our products to be compatible with any newly designed product of another party. We would likely incur substantial costs to test and “de-bug” any newly designed product that we integrate into our products. Further, our new product development efforts may be hampered by our need to maintain compatibility with the products of others, and we may incur additional expense designing for compatibility. 17Table of ContentsOur disc publishing systems may have manufacturing or design defects that we discover after shipment, which could negatively affect our revenues, increase our costs and harm our reputation. Our publishing systems are complex and may contain undetected and unexpected defects, errors or failures. If these product defects are substantial, the result could be product recalls, an increased amount of product returns, loss of market acceptance and damage to our reputation, all of which could increase our costs and cause us to lose sales. We carry general commercial liability insurance covering our products with policy limits per occurrence and in the aggregate that we have deemed to be sufficient. We cannot predict, however, whether this insurance is sufficient, or if not, whether we will be able to obtain sufficient insurance to cover the risks associated with our business or whether such insurance will be available at premiums that are commercially reasonable. In addition, these insurance policies must be renewed annually. Although we have been able to obtain liability insurance, such insurance may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful claim against us or settlement by us in excess of our insurance coverage or our inability to maintain insurance in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. If our products fail to comply with domestic and international government regulations, or if these regulations result in a barrier to our business, we could lose sales. Our products must comply with various domestic and international laws, regulations and standards. In the event that we are unable or unwilling to comply with any such laws, regulations or standards, we may decide not to conduct business in certain markets. Particularly in international markets, we may experience difficulty in securing required licenses or permits on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Failure to comply with existing or evolving laws or regulations, including export and import restrictions and barriers, or to obtain timely domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or certificates could result in lost sales. Privacy concerns and laws or other domestic or foreign regulations may reduce the effectiveness of our products and adversely affect our business. Our customers can use our products to collect, use and store personal or identifying information regarding their employees, customers and suppliers. Federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted, are considering adopting, or may adopt laws and regulations regarding the collection, use, storage and disclosure of personal information obtained from consumers and individuals. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such laws and regulations that are applicable to the businesses of our customers may limit the use and adoption of our products and reduce overall demand, or lead to significant fines, penalties or liabilities for any noncompliance with such privacy laws. Furthermore, privacy concerns may cause our customers' workers to resist providing the personal data necessary to allow our customers to use our products effectively. Even the perception of privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may inhibit market adoption of our products in certain industries. All of these domestic and international legislative and regulatory initiatives may adversely affect our customers' ability to process, handle, store, use and transmit demographic and personal information from their employees, customers and suppliers, which could reduce demand for our products. The European Union and many countries in Europe have stringent privacy laws and regulations, which may impact our ability to profitably operate in certain European countries. In addition to government activity, privacy advocacy groups and the technology and other industries are considering various new, additional or different self-regulatory standards that may place additional burdens on us. If the processing of personal information were to be curtailed in this manner, our software products would be less effective, which may reduce demand for our products and adversely affect our business. Fluctuations in our future operating results may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. We have experienced fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, and we expect those fluctuations to continue due to a variety of factors. Some of the factors that influence our quarterly operating results include: •The number and mix of products sold in the quarter;•The structure of Qumu's license arrangements with its customers, particularly the mix of term and perpetual licenses;•The timing of major development projects and market launch of new business platforms;•The availability and cost of components and materials;•Timing, costs and benefits of new product introductions;•Customer order size and delivery timing;•Seasonal factors affecting timing of purchase orders;18Table of Contents•Promotions by ourselves or competitors, and the timing of the promotion;•The impact to the marketplace of competitive products and pricing; and•The timing and level of operating expenses; and•General economic and market conditions including market uncertainty. Because of these factors, our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and are likely to vary in the future. If our operating results are below financial analysts' or investors' expectations, the market price of our common stock may fall abruptly and significantly. Our stock price may be volatile, and a shareholder's investment could decline in value. Our stock price has fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly, making it difficult for an investor to resell shares or to resell shares at an attractive price. The market prices for securities of technology companies, like Rimage, have historically been highly volatile. Future events concerning us or our competitors could cause such volatility, including: •Actual or anticipated variations in our operating results;•Investments required in infrastructure and/or personnel to meet long-term strategic objectives;•Technological innovations or new commercial products introduced by us or our competitors;•Developments concerning proprietary rights;•Changes in senior management;•Potential acquisition or strategic alliance activities;•Investor perception of us and our industry;•General economic and market conditions including market uncertainty;•National or global political events; and•Public confidence in the securities markets and regulation by or of the securities markets. In addition, the stock market is subject to price and volume fluctuations that affect the market prices for companies in general, and small-capitalization, high-technology companies in particular, which are often unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Any failure by us to meet or exceed estimates of financial analysts is likely to cause a decline in our common stock price. Further, recent economic conditions have resulted in significant fluctuations and significant declines in stock prices for many companies, including Rimage. Future sales of shares of our common stock in the public market may negatively affect our stock price. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, could have a significant negative effect on the market price of our common stock. Upon exercise of outstanding options, the number of shares outstanding of our common stock could increase substantially. This increase, in turn, could dilute future earnings per share, if any, and could depress the market value of our common stock. Dilution and potential dilution, the availability of a large amount of shares for sale, and the possibility of additional issuances and sales of our common stock may negatively affect both the trading price of our common stock and the liquidity of our common stock. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we would deem appropriate. Provisions of Minnesota law, our bylaws and other agreements may deter a change of control of our company and may have a possible negative effect on our stock price. Certain provisions of Minnesota law, our bylaws and other agreements may make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire, or discourage a third-party from attempting to acquire, control of our company, including: •The provisions of Minnesota law relating to business combinations and control share acquisitions;•The provisions of our bylaws regarding the business properly brought before shareholders;19Table of Contents•The right of our Board of Directors to establish more than one class or series of shares and to fix the relative rights and preferences of any such different classes or series;•Our shareholder rights plan, which would cause substantial dilution to any person or group attempting to acquire our company on terms not approved in advance by our Board of Directors;•The provisions of our stock option plans allowing for the acceleration of vesting or payments of awards granted under the plans in the event of specified events that result in a “change in control”; and•The provisions of our agreements provide for severance payments to our executive officers in the event of certain terminations following a “change in control.” These measures could discourage or prevent a takeover of our company or changes in our management, even if an acquisition or such changes would be beneficial to our shareholders. This may have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Keeping abreast of, and in compliance with, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public company disclosure requirements, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and in particular Section 404 of that Act relating to management certification of internal controls, the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the rules of the Nasdaq Stock Market have required an increased amount of management attention and external resources. We intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving corporate governance and public disclosure standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.