D. RISK FACTORS Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before investing in our ordinary shares. Our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected due to any of the following risks. In that case, the value of our ordinary shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS We have had a limited operating history in the network processor industry and our future financial results are difficult to predict. Our future success will be subject to the risks we will encounter in the network processor industry. We have a limited operating history in the industry, with our first product sales in the second quarter of 2002 and total network product sales through December 31, 2005 of approximately $12.8 million. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate the prospects of our business. Moreover, the network processor industry is constantly evolving and is subject to technological and competitive forces beyond our control. Our ability to design and market products to meet customer demand and the revenue and income potential of our products and business are unproven. As an early stage company in the developing network processor industry, we face numerous risks and uncertainties. Some of these risks relate to our ability to: — expand and enhance our product offerings; — increase our revenues; — diversify our sources of revenue; — respond to technological changes; and — respond to competitive market conditions. If we fail to address these risks and uncertainties, our results of operations will be adversely affected. We are dependent on the networking equipment market for our growth, and if it does not grow then we will not be able to expand our business. The growth of our network processor business depends in part on increased acceptance and use of networking equipment. In particular, we depend on the ability of our target customers to develop new products and enhance existing products for the networking equipment market that incorporate our products and to introduce and promote their products successfully. The market for networking equipment depends in part upon the market’s acceptance of 10 Gigabit Ethernet technologies that enable the forwarding of data at a high speed. Ultimately, the 10 Gigabit Ethernet technologies development rate may be slower than we anticipate. If the use of networking equipment does not grow as we anticipate, if our target customers do not incorporate our products into theirs, or if the products of our target customers that incorporate our network processors are not commercially successful, our growth will be impeded. 4 Many of our competitors and potential competitors are much larger than us, and if we are unable to compete effectively we could lose our market share and revenues. The market for network processors is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to rapid technological change. We believe that competition in this market will become more intense in the future and may cause price reductions, reduce gross margins and result in loss of market share, any one of which could significantly reduce our future revenue and increase our losses. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, product development and marketing resources, greater name recognition and significantly larger customer bases than we do. Additionally, many of our competitors also have well-established relationships with our prospective customers and suppliers. As a result of these factors, many of our competitors, either alone or with other companies, have significant influence in our target markets that could outweigh our technological advantage. Our products may have defects, which could damage our reputation, decrease market acceptance of our products, cause us to lose customers and revenue, increase production costs and result in liability. Highly complex products such as network processors may contain hardware or software defects or bugs. Often, these defects and bugs are not detected until after the products have been shipped. If any of our products contain defects, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation might be damaged significantly and customers might be reluctant to buy our products, which could result in the loss of or failure to attract customers. In addition, these defects could interrupt or delay sales. We may have to invest significant capital and other resources to correct these problems. If any of these problems are not found until after we have commenced commercial production of a new product, we might incur substantial additional development costs. If we fail to provide solutions to the problems, such as software patches, we could also incur product recall, repair or replacement costs. These problems might also result in claims against us by our customers or others. In addition, these problems might divert technical and other resources from other development efforts. Moreover, we would likely lose, or experience a delay in, market acceptance of the affected product or products, and we could lose credibility with our current and prospective customers. This is particularly significant as we are relatively a new entrant to a market dominated by large, well-established companies. We may have to redesign our products to meet rapidly evolving industry standards and customer specifications, which could delay our production and increase our operating costs. We operate in a market characterized by rapidly evolving industry standards, product obsolescence, and new manufacturing and design technologies. Many of the standards and protocols for our products are based on high speed networking technologies that have not been widely adopted or ratified by one of the standard setting bodies in our customers’ industry. Our target customers, network equipment manufacturers, are likely to have varying requirements and may delay or alter their design demands during this standard-setting process. In response, we may have to redesign our products to suit these changing demands, which would likely delay the production of our future products and increase operating costs. 5 Because our products have lengthy design and development cycles, we could experience delays in generating revenues or cancellation of customer contracts. We may never generate significant revenues from our products after incurring significant design and development expenditures. A customer may decide to cancel or change its product plans, which could cause us to generate no revenue from that customer and adversely affect our results of operations. A delay or cancellation of a customer’s plans could significantly adversely affect our financial results. Even after winning a design contract, a customer may not begin volume production of our equipment for a period of up to two years, if at all. Due to this lengthy design and development cycle, a significant period may elapse from the time we begin incurring expenses until the time we generate revenue from our products. We have no assurances that our customers will ultimately market and sell their equipment incorporating our network processors, or that such efforts by our customers will be successful. The loss of personnel could affect our ability to design and market our products. To succeed, we must retain and hire technical personnel highly skilled at the design and test functions used to develop high speed networking products and related software. The competition for such employees is intense. We, along with our competitors, customers and other companies in the communications industry, face intense competition for those employees from competitors and an increasing number of startup companies which are emerging with potentially lucrative employee ownership arrangements. Recruiting, hiring and retaining key personnel can also result in significant monetary costs. If we are unable to adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and other measures, our competitors could use our proprietary information and we could lose our competitive advantage. To compete effectively, we must protect our proprietary information. We rely on and intend to rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. Our failure to adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property from use by our competitors could jeopardize our competitive advantage, and result in a loss of customers. We have a number of issued patents, however, the patents that have been issued may not provide any meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us, as they may not be of sufficient scope or strength, or may not be issued in all countries where our products can be sold. In addition, our competitors may be able to design around our patents. 6 Our products employ technologies that may infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties, which may expose us to litigation and prevent us from selling our products. Vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions characterize the semiconductor industry. This often results in expensive and lengthy litigation. We, as well as our customers or suppliers, may be accused of infringing on patents or other intellectual property rights owned by third parties. An adverse result in any litigation could force us to pay substantial damages, stop designing or manufacturing, using and selling the infringing products, spend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, discontinue using certain processes or obtain licenses to use the infringing technology. In addition, we may not be able to develop non-infringing technology, nor might we be able to find appropriate licenses on reasonably satisfactory terms. Because the processes used to manufacture our products are complex, customized to our specifications and can only be performed by a limited number of manufacturing facilities, we may experience delays in production and increased costs. The manufacture of processors is a highly complex and technically demanding process. Defects in design or problems associated with transitions to newer manufacturing processes or new manufacturers can result in unacceptable manufacturing yields and performance. These problems are frequently difficult to detect in the early stages of the production process and can be time-consuming and expensive to correct once detected. As a result, defects, performance problems with our products or poor manufacturing yields could adversely affect our business and operating results. We depend on third-party manufacturers and other suppliers to manufacture our network processors. The fabrication of our network processors is outsourced to third-party manufacturers and subcontractors. There are significant risks associated with our reliance on third-party manufacturers. Most significantly, if our manufacturing suppliers are unable or unwilling to provide us with adequate manufacturing capacity, we would have to identify and qualify one or more substitute suppliers for our products. Our manufacturers may experience unanticipated events that could inhibit their abilities to provide us with adequate manufacturing capacity on a timely basis, or at all. Historically, there have been periods in which there has been a worldwide shortage of manufacturer capacity for the production of high-performance processors such as ours. Introducing new products or transferring existing products to a new third party manufacturer would require significant development time to adapt our designs to their manufacturing processes and could cause product shipment delays. In addition, the costs associated with manufacturing our products may increase if we are required to use a new third party manufacturer. If we fail to satisfy our manufacturing requirements, our business would be materially harmed. 7 Under a November 2000 agreement, as amended, IBM agreed to manufacture our NP-1 and NP-1c network processors and related prototypes until December 31, 2007. Under the agreement’s terms, IBM may reduce or delay shipment if its ability to manufacture the NP-1 and NP-1c network processors is constrained. IBM is the sole manufacturer of the NP-1 and NP-1c network processors. If IBM fails to deliver these network processors on time or at all, our business could be severely harmed. If the arrangement with IBM is terminated or amended in a manner detrimental to us, it could adversely affect our business while we try to locate a substitute supplier. We have entered into arrangements with a third party for manufacturing services relating to our NP-2 network processor. This third party will coordinate and assume responsibility for various aspects of the manufacturing process and will arrange for the manufacture of our NP-2 network processor by Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (TSMC). These arrangements entail similar risks. TSMC is the sole manufacturer of the NP-2 network processor. If either the third party, TSMC or any other subcontractor fails to deliver network processors or necessary components or services on time or at all, our business could be severely harmed. If the current manufacturing arrangement between our third party subcontractor and TSMC is terminated or amended in a manner detrimental to us, it could adversely affect our business while we try to make alternative arrangements with substitute suppliers. These and other risks associated with our reliance on a third-party manufacturer could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If internally generated funds are insufficient and we are unable to procure funding on favorable terms, we would not be able to develop and expand our business, which could negatively affect our revenues. We expect that significant funding will be required in order to continue to develop our products and to expand our business. Given the state of development of our products and the present economic environment, we believe that we have sufficient funding resources to finance our operations through the end of 2007. The capital markets have experienced severe downturns over the last couple of years, especially relating to technology companies, and access to capital has at times been both difficult and expensive. If internally generated funds are insufficient and we do not obtain enough funding to support our future development when needed, our business will suffer. Even if we are successful in obtaining funding through the capital markets or otherwise, such funding may not be on terms favorable to us. Your ownership interest in LanOptics may be diluted as a result of anticipated exchanges of our shares for EZchip shares. We presently own approximately 60.4% of EZchip. We wish to exchange our shares from time to time for EZchip shares in order to increase our ownership interest in EZchip. We will attempt to effect all such exchanges at an exchange ratio that reflects the relative values of LanOptics and EZchip. If we are required to issue more LanOptics shares than the number that reflects our value relative to the value of EZchip, the ownership interests of LanOptics existing shareholders will be diluted. 8 The liquidation preference of the preferred shareholders of EZchip may limit LanOptics’ return in the event of a sale of EZchip. We hold both ordinary shares and various classes of preferred shares in EZchip. Most of the other shareholders of EZchip hold only preferred shares, which provide the holders with preferences upon liquidation. If EZchip were to be sold, the transaction would likely be a deemed liquidation that would entitle the preferred shareholders to their liquidation preference before any distribution to the holders of ordinary shares. This may result in those shareholders receiving a higher percentage in liquidation than their actual ownership percentage. Any voluntary liquidation event would require the approval of our board of directors. Our share price has been volatile and we believe that it is likely to continue to be volatile. The market price of our ordinary shares has been highly volatile and we believe that it is likely to continue to be volatile. This is due to the risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report, as well as other factors, including: — general economic conditions, including those that specifically relate to network processor and telecom industries; — actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; — changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; — the issuance of research reports about our company or industry, or changes in analysts’ opinions about our company; — technological innovations by us or by our competitors; — investors’ perceptions about the future of the telecom industry or changes in market valuation of network processor companies in particular; — relatively low volumes at which our shares have been traded at in the past and at which they may continue to trade; and — the operating and share price performance of comparable companies. In addition, the market prices of equity securities of companies that have a significant presence in Israel may also be affected by the changing security situation in the Middle East and particularly in Israel. As a result, these companies may experience difficulties in raising additional financing required to effectively operate and grow their businesses. Such failure and the volatility of the securities market in general, and our share price in particular, may affect our ability to raise additional financing in the future. Market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. 9 The implementation of SFAS No. 123(R), which requires us to record compensation expense in connection with equity share based compensation, will increase our compensation costs significantly. On December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (“SFAS No. 123(R)”), which is a revision of SFAS No. 123. Generally, the approach in SFAS 123(R) is similar to the approach described in Statement 123. However, SFAS No. 123 permitted, but did not require, share-based payments to employees to be recognized based on their fair values, while SFAS No. 123(R) requires, as to fiscal years starting after June 15, 2005, that all share-based payments to employees be recognized based on their fair values. SFAS No. 123(R) also revises, clarifies and expands guidance in several areas, including measuring fair value, classifying an award as equity or as a liability and attributing compensation cost to reporting periods. The adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, although it will have no impact on our overall financial position or cash flows. In addition, the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) could also limit our ability to use stock options as an incentive and retention tool, which could, in turn, hurt our ability to recruit employees and retain existing employees. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the United States dollar and foreign currencies may affect our operating results. A significant portion of the cost of our Israeli operations, mainly personnel and facility-related, is incurred in NIS. Therefore, our NIS related costs, as expressed in US dollars, are influenced by the exchange rate between the US dollar and the NIS. In addition, if the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the US dollar, or if the timing of such devaluations were to lag considerably behind inflation, our cost as expressed in US dollars may increase. NIS linked balance sheet items may create foreign exchange gains or losses, depending upon the relative dollar values of the NIS at the beginning and end of the reporting period, affecting our net income and earnings per share. Although we may use hedging techniques we may not be able to eliminate the effects of currency fluctuations. Thus, exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and share price. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and NASDAQ Stock Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities, which could harm our operating results and business prospects. 10 RISKS RELATING TO OUR LOCATION IN ISRAEL Potential political, economic and military instability in Israel may disrupt our operations and negatively affect our sales. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, and our principal executive offices and principal research and development facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in and surrounding Israel may directly affect our business. Since the State of Israel was established in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel, could materially adversely affect our operations. Since October 2000 terrorist violence in Israel has increased significantly. Ongoing and revived hostilities or other Israeli political or economic factors could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, some of our key employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces and are subject to being called for active military duty at any time in the event of a national emergency. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our key employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations would harm our business. Changes to tax laws may result in our receiving fewer benefits than we hope to receive. Our facilities in Israel have been granted Approved Enterprise status under the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, commonly referred to as the Investment Law. The Investment Law provides that capital investments in a production facility (or other eligible assets) may be designated as an Approved Enterprise. Until recently, the designation required advance approval from the Investment Center of the Israel Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor (the Investment Center). For these programs to be eligible for tax benefits, we must meet certain conditions, relating principally to adherence to the approved programs and to periodic reporting obligations. We believe that we are currently in compliance with these requirements. However, if we fail to meet these requirements, we would be subject to corporate tax in Israel at the regular statutory rate. We could also be required to refund tax benefits, with interest and adjustments for inflation based on the Israeli consumer price index. Our board of directors has determined that we will not distribute any amounts of our undistributed tax exempt income as dividend. We intend to reinvest our tax-exempt income and not to distribute such income as a dividend. Accordingly, no deferred income taxes have been provided on income attributable to our Approved Enterprise program as the undistributed tax exempt income is essentially permanent in duration. On April 1, 2005 an amendment to the Investment Law came into effect, which revised the criteria for investments qualified to receive tax benefits. An eligible investment program under the amendment will qualify for benefits as a Privileged Enterprise (rather than the previous terminology of Approved Enterprise). Among other things, the amendment provides tax benefits to both local and foreign investors and simplifies the approval process. The amendment does not apply to investment programs approved prior to December 31, 2004. The new tax regime will apply to new investment programs only. As a result of the amendment, tax-exempt income generated under the provisions of the new law will subject us to taxes upon distribution or liquidation and we may be required to record deferred tax liability with respect to such tax-exempt income. We are currently evaluating what impact the amendment will have on us. 11 It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us or our officers and directors, to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel or serve process on substantially all of our officers and directors. We are organized under the laws of the State of Israel. Substantially all of our executive officers and directors and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to collect a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of these persons, or to effect service of process upon these persons in the United States. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable in shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company has a duty of fairness toward the company. The Israeli Companies Law also provides that a breach of the duty of fairness will be governed by the laws governing breach of contract; however, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revision in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. Some of the provisions of Israeli law could: — discourage potential acquisition proposals; — delay or prevent a change in control; and — limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our ordinary shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers and acquisitions of shares through tender offers, requires approvals for transactions involving significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israel tax law treats stock-for-stock acquisitions between an Israeli company and a foreign company less favorably than does U.S. tax law. For example, Israeli tax law may subject a shareholder who exchanges his ordinary shares for shares in a foreign corporation to immediate taxation or to taxation before his investment in the foreign corporation becomes liquid. These provisions may adversely affect the price of our shares. 12 