Item 1A. RISK FACTORS We actively manage the risks associated with our business. Interest rate risks, credit risks, earnings volatility, REIT qualification risks and other risks are monitored, measured and quantified by management in order to assure minimal earnings and dividend fluctuations. However, investors should understand the nature of the risks that we face. Any one of the key risk factors discussed below, or other factors not so discussed, could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations and could adversely affect our profitability. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider all of the risks described below. 19 Table of Contents The occurrence of recent adverse developments in the mortgage finance and credit markets has affected our business and our stock price. • In recent months, the mortgage industry has come under enormous pressure due to numerous economic and industry-related factors. Many companies operating in the mortgage sector have failed and others are facing serious operating and financial challenges. At the same time, many mortgage securities have been downgraded and delinquencies and credit performance of mortgage loans in the industry have deteriorated. We faced significant challenges during the second half of 2007 due to these adverse conditions in the mortgage industry and the difficulties we experienced in pricing and financing our mortgage assets, and are continuing to face these challenges in 2008. There is no assurance that these conditions have stabilized or that they will not worsen. Recent adverse changes in the mortgage finance and credit markets have eliminated or reduced the availability, or increased the cost, of significant sources of funding for us. Beginning in August 2007, the fair value of our ARM Assets as well as our Hedging Instruments declined, our margin requirements on our financing increased and in August 2007 we sold a significant amount of assets and terminated Swap Agreements in order to reduce our exposure to further margin calls on recourse borrowings and hedging transactions. There is no assurance that the value of our Purchased ARM Assets and Hedging Instruments will not decline further, that lenders will not make additional margin calls or that we will be able to satisfy additional margin calls. The price of our Common Stock declined significantly as a result of these events and the impact on our earnings. There is no assurance that our stock price will not continue to experience significant volatility as mortgage security prices continue to decline. We face increasing competition in our market from banks and other financial institutions. • We may not be able to compete effectively in our lending markets, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our lending markets are highly competitive. The increasingly competitive environment is a result of changes in the availability and terms of credit in the mortgage finance market. Banks have access to alternative sources of mortgage financing such as FDIC insured deposits and Federal Home Loan Bank products which are not available to us. Financial institutions that are larger than we are may have greater access to capital markets, may be able to offer products similar to ours at lower costs and may offer a broader array of services. Increased competition may result in a decrease in our loan originations or a higher cost to originate loans. ARM yields change as short-term interest rates change. • When short-term interest rates are low, the yields on our ARM Assets will be low, reducing our return on equity. • We own ARM Assets tied to various interest rate indices. If the interest rate indices applicable to our ARM Assets change independently of other market interest rates, our ARM yields, spreads, premium amortization expense and earnings may be adversely affected. • We own ARM Assets with various repricing or interest rate adjustment frequencies. The yields on these assets also may respond to changes in their underlying indices on a delayed basis due to borrower notification requirements. As a result, our yields and earnings on these assets could be temporarily below our longer-term expectations. 20 Table of Contents Book value changes as interest rates change. • Increases in interest rates may result in a decline in the fair value of our ARM Assets that may not be fully offset by the value of our Hedging Instruments. A decrease in the fair value of our ARM securities may result in a reduction of our book value due to the accounting standards that we are required to follow. • The fair value of the Hedging Instruments we use to manage our interest rate risk may decline during periods of declining interest rates and may not be fully offset by increases in the value of our ARM Assets, adversely affecting our book value because of the accounting standards that we are required to follow. We leverage our long term capital, which consists of equity and unsecured debt with borrowed money to fund the purchase of additional ARM Assets. A significant contributor to our earnings is the interest margin between the yield on our ARM Assets and the cost of our borrowings. • All of the risks highlighted above could be magnified because we use borrowed funds to acquire additional ARM Assets for our portfolio. • Our ability to borrow and our cost of borrowing could be adversely affected by deterioration in the quality or fair value of our ARM Assets or by general availability of credit in the mortgage market. • We borrow funds in the Reverse Repurchase Agreement market, and through whole loan financing facilities, based on the fair value of our ARM Assets less a margin amount. If the fair value of our ARM Assets declines, the lender’s opinion about the fair value of our ARM Assets changes or our margin requirements increase, we could be subject to margin calls that would require us to either pledge additional ARM Assets as collateral or reduce our borrowings. If we did not have sufficient unpledged assets or liquidity to meet these requirements, we may need to sell assets under adverse market conditions or at losses to satisfy our lenders. Alternatively, the lender may terminate the lending agreement and sell the assets without our knowledge should we default under any of these lending agreements. • Our borrowings are tied primarily to the LIBOR interest rates, while our assets are indexed to LIBOR and other various interest rate indices. If these other short-term indices move differently than LIBOR, our earnings or book value could be adversely affected to the extent of the difference. • If we are unable to re-finance our asset-backed commercial paper facilities which mature through March 2008, reverse repurchase agreements which mature through May 30, 2012, and whole loan financing facilities, which expire between April and December 2008, on favorable terms or at all, our liquidity and capital resources could be materially adversely affected. • Our calculation of Effective Duration and Net Effective Duration are estimates based on assumptions about the expected behavior of our assets, liabilities and Hedging Instruments that may prove to be empirically incorrect, and our Effective Duration and Net Effective Duration change with every change in interest rates. As a result, our actual exposure to changes in interest rates could be different than that implied by our Effective Duration calculation. • The interest rate adjustment or repricing characteristics of our ARM Assets and borrowings may not be perfectly matched. Rising interest rates could adversely affect our earnings and dividends if the interest payments that we must make on our borrowings rise faster than the interest income we earn on our ARM Assets. Declining interest rates could adversely affect our earnings and dividends if the interest income we receive on our ARM Assets declines more quickly than the interest payments that we must make on our borrowings. In general, our borrowings adjust more frequently than the interest rates on our ARM Assets. 21 Table of Contents • Some of our ARM Assets have caps that limit the amount that the interest rate can change for a given change in an underlying index. Our borrowings do not have similar limitations. If the interest rate change on our ARM Assets is limited while the interest rates on our borrowings increase, our Portfolio Margins and earnings may be adversely affected. • We employ various hedging and funding strategies to minimize the adverse impact that changing interest rates might have on our earnings, but our strategies may prove to be less effective in practice than we anticipate, or our ability to use such strategies may be limited due to our need to comply with federal income tax requirements that are necessary to preserve our REIT status. Our mortgage assets may be prepaid at any time at the borrower’s option. • Mortgage prepayment rates typically rise during falling interest rate environments. If mortgages prepay, the prepayment proceeds may be invested in lower yielding assets, thus reducing earnings. • Mortgage prepayment rates typically fall during rising interest rate environments. If mortgages do not prepay, we would have less cash flow to use to purchase new mortgage assets in a higher interest rate environment, potentially adversely affecting earnings. • We purchase and originate ARM Assets at prices greater than par. We amortize the premiums over the expected life of the ARM asset. To the extent that we have purchased such assets, our yields, spreads and earnings could be adversely affected if mortgage prepayment rates are greater than anticipated at the time of acquisition or if the index upon which the floating rate period interest rate is calculated declines because we would have to amortize the premiums at a faster rate. We acquire Hybrid ARM Assets that have fixed interest rate periods. • A decline in interest rates may result in an increase in prepayment of our Hybrid ARM Assets, which could cause the amount of our fixed rate financing to increase relative to the total amount of our Hybrid ARM Assets. This may result in a decline in our net spread on Hybrid ARM Assets as replacement Hybrid ARM Assets may have a lower yield than the assets that are paying off. • An increase in interest rates may result in a decline in prepayment of our Hybrid ARM Assets, requiring us to finance a greater amount of Hybrid ARM Assets than originally anticipated at a time when interest rates may be higher, which would result in a decline in our net spread on Hybrid ARM Assets. We originate and acquire ARM Loans and ARM securities and have risk of loss due to mortgage loan defaults or fraud. • The ability of our borrowers to make timely principal and interest payments could be adversely affected by changes in their personal circumstances, a rise in interest rates, a recession, declining real estate property values or other economic events, resulting in losses to us. • If a borrower defaults on a mortgage loan that we own and if the liquidation proceeds from the sale of the property do not cover our loan amount and our legal, broker and selling costs, we would experience a loss. • We bear the risk of loss on loans we have originated or acquired due to hazard losses such as earthquakes, floods, fires or similar hazards, unless the homeowner had insurance for such hazards. • We could experience losses if we fail to detect fraud, where a borrower or lending partner has misrepresented its financial situation or purpose for obtaining the loan, or an appraisal misrepresented the value of the property collateralizing our loan. 22 Table of Contents • We purchase ARM securities that have various degrees of third-party credit protection and are rated at least Investment Grade at the time of purchase. It is possible that default and loan loss experience on the underlying securitized loans could exceed any credit enhancement, subjecting us to risk of loss. Our mortgage loan originations are dependent on external factors. • We rely on third-party providers who specialize in the underwriting, processing, servicing and closing of mortgage loans. We are dependent upon the availability and quality of the performance of such providers and we cannot guarantee that they will successfully perform the services for which we engage them. • As a mortgage lender, we are subject to changes in consumer and real estate-related laws and regulations that could subject us to lawsuits or adversely affect our profitability or ability to remain competitive. • We must comply with the applicable licensing and other regulatory requirements of each jurisdiction in which we are authorized to lend. We are subject to examination by each such jurisdiction, and if it is determined that we are not in compliance with the applicable requirements, we may be fined and our license to lend may be suspended or revoked. • We are competing for mortgage loans against much larger, better-known mortgage originators that could affect our ability to acquire or originate ARM Assets at attractive yields and spreads. • ARM Assets may not always be readily available for purchase or origination in the marketplace at attractive yields because their availability is somewhat dependent on the relationship between 30-year fixed-rate mortgage rates and ARM rates. Our REIT qualification creates certain risks. • The requirements to qualify for REIT tax status are complex and technical, and we may not be able to qualify for reasons beyond our control. A failure to qualify as a REIT could subject our earnings to taxation at regular corporate rates, thereby reducing the amount of money available for distributions to our shareholders and for payment of principal and interest on our borrowings. • The REIT tax rules require that we distribute the majority of our earnings as dividends, leaving us limited ability to maintain our future dividend payments if our earnings decline. • Because we must distribute the majority of our earnings to shareholders in the form of dividends, we have a limited amount of capital available to internally fund our growth. • Additionally, because we cannot retain earnings to grow, we must issue additional shares of stock to grow, which could result in the dilution of our outstanding stock and an accompanying decrease in its market price. • Changes in tax laws related to REIT qualifications or taxation of dividends could adversely affect us. If the Service were to determine that (i) we failed the 95% REIT gross income test for our 2007 taxable year and (ii) our failure of that test was not attributable to reasonable cause, but rather, willful neglect, we would fail to qualify as a REIT for our 2007 taxable year and this could adversely affect our shareholders. • If the gain we recognized upon disposition or other termination of Swap Agreements in 2007 is not qualifying income for purposes of the annual 95% REIT gross income test, then we may have failed that test for our 2007 taxable year. We believe, however, that, if we in fact failed the test, 23 Table of Contents our failure would be considered due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect, and, therefore, we would not be disqualified as a REIT for our 2007 taxable year. We would, however, be subject to a tax based, in part, on the amount by which we failed the 95% gross income test. We expect that the amount of such tax would not exceed $300,000. • If the Service were to assert that we failed the 95% gross income test for our 2007 taxable year and that such failure was not due to reasonable cause, and the courts were to sustain that position, our status as a REIT would terminate for our 2007 taxable year. We would not be eligible to again elect REIT status until our 2012 taxable year. The loss of the Investment Company Act exemption could adversely affect us. • We conduct our business so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. If we were to become regulated as an investment company, we would not be able to operate as we currently do. We are dependent on certain key personnel. • We are dependent upon the efforts of Garrett Thornburg, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, Larry A. Goldstone, our President and our Chief Executive Officer, Clarence G. Simmons, III, our Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Paul G. Decoff, our Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Lending Officer, all of whom are also key officers and employees of the Manager. The loss of any of their services could have an adverse effect on our operations. Some of our directors and officers have ownership interests in the Manager, which may create conflicts of interest. • The Manager is entitled to receive performance-based compensation based on our annualized return on equity. Undue emphasis placed on maximization of our short-term return on equity at the expense of other criteria could result in increased risk to our long-term return on equity. We may change our policies without shareholder approval. • Management recommends and the Board of Directors establishes all of our operating policies, including our investment, financing and dividend policies. Our Board of Directors has the ability and authority to revise or amend those policies without shareholder approval. Our technology infrastructure and systems are critical to our success. • Our ability to originate, acquire and purchase ARM Assets and manage the related interest rate risks and credit risks is critical to our success and is highly dependent upon the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems. Some of these systems are located at our facility and some are maintained by third party vendors. Any significant interruption in the availability and functionality of these systems could harm our business. • Although we believe we have taken appropriate measures to provide for the security of our systems, our security measures may not effectively prohibit others from obtaining improper access to our information. If a person is able to circumvent our security measures, he or she could destroy or misappropriate valuable information or disrupt our operations. Any security breach could expose us to risks of data loss, litigation and liability and could seriously disrupt our operations and harm our reputation. 24 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 