Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating us, our business and your investment in us. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be harmed. Additional risks, uncertainties and other factors that are not currently known to us or that we believe are not currently material may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. The markets we serve are subject to cyclical demand, which could harm our business and make it difficult to project long-term performance. Demand for our products depends in large part upon the level of capital and maintenance expenditures by many of our customers and end users, in particular those customers in the global hydrocarbon and industrial gas markets. These customers’ expenditures historically have been cyclical in nature and vulnerable to economic downturns. Decreased capital and maintenance spending by these customers could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, this historically cyclical demand limits our ability to make accurate long-term predictions about the performance of our company. For example, certain of our core businesses underperformed in the years prior to 2004 due to a general downturn in capital spending in the global and domestic industrial gas markets. While we have experienced demand growth since late 2003 in the global hydrocarbon and industrial gas markets, this growth may not continue and our businesses’ performance may not be markedly better or may be worse in the future. In addition, changing world economic and political conditions may reduce the willingness of our customers and prospective customers to commit funds to purchase our products and services. Further, in 2005, the U.S. government announced the reduction of the amount of dollars it offered as reimbursement to our customers for purchasing our medical oxygen therapy products, which has adversely affected demand for these products. The loss of, or significant reduction or delay in, purchases by our largest customers could reduce our sales and profitability. Although no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our total sales for the year ended December 31, 2006, a small number of customers has accounted for a substantial portion of our historical net sales, and we expect that a limited number of customers will continue to represent a substantial portion of our sales for the foreseeable future. Approximately 35%, 33% and 39% of our sales for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, were made to Praxair, Air Liquide, Air Products, Bechtel, Airgas, The Linde Group and JGC, which management believes are the largest producers and distributors of hydrocarbon and industrial gases, and their suppliers. The loss of any of our major customers or a decrease or delay in orders or anticipated spending by such customers could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. Our largest customers could also engage in business combinations, which could increase their size and increase or decrease the portion of our total sales concentration to any single customer. For example Linde and BOC engaged in a business combination in 2006. Additionally, we currently sell all of our magnetic resonance imaging, or MRI, components to GE, a leading worldwide manufacturer of MRI equipment, which accounted for approximately $8.8 million in sales for the year ended December 31, 2006. The loss of, or significant reduction in, purchases of our MRI components by GE could reduce revenues and profitability in our BioMedical segment. 8 Table of Contents We may be unable to compete successfully in the highly competitive markets in which we operate. Although many of our products serve niche markets, a number of our direct and indirect competitors in these markets are major corporations, some of which have substantially greater technical, financial and marketing resources than we, and other competitors may enter these markets. Any increase in competition may cause us to lose market share or compel us to reduce prices to remain competitive, which could result in reduced sales and earnings. Companies that operate in our industry are Air Products, Kobe, Linde, Nordon, Puritan-Bennett, a division of Tyco International, Ltd., Sumitomo and Taylor-Wharton, a Harsco Company. Additionally, we compete with several suppliers owned by global industrial gas producers and many smaller fabrication-only facilities around the world. Increased competition with these companies could prevent the institution of price increases or could require price reductions or increased spending on research and development and marketing and sales, any of which could materially reduce our revenues, profitability or both. In the event of an industry downturn, customers who typically outsource their need for cryogenic systems to us may use their excess capacity to produce such systems themselves. We also compete in the sale of a limited number of products with certain of our major customers. We will soon be required to evaluate our internal controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our securities. Commencing with the year ending December 31, 2007, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we will be required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting, and our auditors will be required to deliver an attestation report on management’s assessment of and operating effectiveness of internal controls. The report by our management must contain, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and audited consolidated financial statements as of the end of our fiscal year. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Unlike many companies whose shares are publicly traded, we are not presently required to be in compliance with Section 404’s internal control requirements. We have substantial effort ahead of us to complete documentation of our internal control system and financial processes, information systems, assessment of their design, remediation of control deficiencies identified in these efforts and management testing of the designs and operation of internal controls. We may not be able to complete the required management assessment by our reporting deadline or may not meet applicable standards in following years. An inability to complete and document this assessment or to comply in following years could result in our receiving less than an unqualified report from our auditors with respect to our internal controls. This could cause investors to lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have a negative effect on the trading prices of our securities. As a global business, we are exposed to economic, political and other risks in different countries which could materially reduce our revenues, profitability or cash flows, or materially increase our liabilities. Since we manufacture and sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. In 2006, 52% of our sales were made in international markets. Our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • exchange controls and currency restrictions; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political, social or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets; • civil unrest, turmoil or outbreak of disease in any of the countries in which we operate; • tariffs, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • potentially negative consequences from changes in U.S. and international tax laws; • difficulty in staffing and managing geographically widespread operations; 9 Table of Contents • differing labor regulations; • requirements relating to withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; • different regulatory regimes controlling the protection of our intellectual property; • restrictions on our ability to own or operate subsidiaries, make investments or acquire new businesses in these jurisdictions; • restrictions on our ability to repatriate dividends from our foreign subsidiaries; • difficulty in collecting international accounts receivable; • difficulty in enforcement of contractual obligations under non-U.S. law; • transportation delays or interruptions; • changes in regulatory requirements; and • the burden of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws. Our international operations also expose us to different local political and business risks and challenges. For example, we are faced with potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations and we have to design local solutions to manage credit and legal risks of local customers and distributors. In addition, because some of our international sales are to suppliers that perform work for foreign governments, we are subject to the political risks associated with foreign government projects. For example, certain foreign governments may require suppliers for a project to obtain products solely from local manufacturers or may prohibit the use of products manufactured in certain countries. International growth and expansion into emerging markets, such as China, Central and Eastern Europe, and the Middle East, may cause us difficulty due to greater regulatory barriers than in the United States, the necessity of adapting to new regulatory systems, problems related to entering new markets with different economic, social and political systems, and significant competition from the primary participants in these markets, some of which may have substantially greater resources than us. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing economic, social and political conditions. We may not succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies to counter the foregoing factors effectively in each location where we do business and the foregoing factors may cause a reduction in our revenues, profitability or cash flows, or cause an increase in our liabilities. If we are unable to successfully manage our growth, it may place a significant strain on our management and administrative resources and lead to increased costs and reduced profitability. We expect to continue to expand our operations in the United States and abroad, particularly in China and the Czech Republic. Our ability to operate our business successfully and implement our strategies depends, in part, on our ability to allocate our resources optimally in each of our facilities in order to maintain efficient operations as we expand. Ineffective management of our growth could cause manufacturing inefficiencies, increase our operating costs, place significant strain on our management and administrative resources and prevent us from implementing our business plan. For example, we have invested or plan to invest up to $30 million in new capital expenditures in the United States and China in 2006, 2007 and 2008 related to the expected growth of our E&C and D&S segments. If we fail to implement these capital projects in a timely and effective manner, we may lose the opportunity to obtain some customer orders. Even if we effectively implement these projects, the orders needed to support the capital expenditure may not be obtained, may be delayed, or may be less than expected, which may result in sales or profitability at lower levels than anticipated. We have experienced some delay in orders related to our E&C segment expansion from the timing initially anticipated in connection with that expansion, which has resulted in the underutilization of some of our capacity, and we cannot provide assurance when those orders will be obtained, if ever. In addition, potential cost overruns, delays or unanticipated problems in any capital expansion could make the expansion more costly than originally predicted. 10 Table of Contents If we lose our senior management or other key employees, our business may be adversely affected. Our ability to successfully operate and grow our business and implement our strategies is largely dependent on the efforts, abilities and services of our senior management and other key employees. Our future success will also depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, such as engineers and other skilled labor, either through direct hiring or the acquisition of other businesses employing such professionals. Our products, many of which are highly engineered, represent specialized applications of cryogenic or low temperature technologies and know-how, and many of the markets we serve represent niche markets for these specialized applications. Accordingly, we rely heavily on engineers, salespersons, business unit leaders, senior management and other key employees who have experience in these specialized applications and are knowledgeable about these niche markets, our products, and our company. Additionally, we may modify our management structure from time to time. We presently are searching for a new president to lead our E&C group, and the change of leadership in that group may create marketing, operational and other business risks. The loss of the services of these senior managers or other key employees, the modification of our management structure or the failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel could reduce the competitiveness of our business or otherwise impair our business prospects. Fluctuations in the prices and availability of raw materials and our exposure to fixed-price contracts including exposure to fixed pricing on long-term customer contracts, could negatively impact our financial results. The pricing and availability of raw materials for use in our businesses can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond our control, including general, domestic and international economic conditions, labor costs, production levels, competition, consumer demand, import duties and tariffs and currency exchange rates. This volatility can significantly affect the availability and cost of raw materials for us, and may, therefore, increase the short-term or long-term costs of raw materials. The commodity metals we use, including aluminum and stainless steel, have experienced significant upward fluctuations in price. On average, over half of our cost of sales is represented by the cost of commodities metals. We have generally been able to recover the cost increases through price increases to our customers; however, during periods of rising prices of raw materials, such as in 2004, 2005 and 2006, we may be unable to pass a portion of such increases on to our customers. Conversely, when raw material prices decline, customer demands for lower prices could result in lower sale prices and, to the extent we have existing inventory, lower margins. As a result, fluctuations in raw material prices could result in lower revenues and profitability. In addition, a substantial portion of our sales are derived from fixed-price contracts for large system projects, which may involve long-term fixed price commitments to customers. Among our long-term fixed-price contracts, we presently are executing two large projects each involving over $20 million of revenue on which our margins have deteriorated significantly, as previously disclosed. On one of these projects, we have experienced significant cost overruns, and the other was disrupted by a storm and related damage. The customer made the decision in the first quarter of 2007 to repair the damage through costly purchases of new replacement materials. We may be required to pay for some of these or other repair costs in the future to the extent the customer asserts a valid claim that we are responsible for the damage occurring, which we would contest vigorously. To the extent that original cost estimates in these or other contracts prove to be inaccurate or the contracts do not permit us to pass increased costs on to our customers, profitability from a particular contract may decrease, which, in turn, could decrease our revenues and overall profitability. We may fail to successfully acquire or integrate companies that provide complementary products or technologies. A component of our business strategy is the acquisition of businesses that complement our existing products and services. Such a strategy involves the potential risks inherent in assessing the value, strengths, weaknesses, contingent or other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition candidates and in integrating the operations of acquired companies. In addition, any acquisition of a foreign business may increase our exposure to certain risks inherent in doing business outside the United States. 11 Table of Contents From time to time, we may have acquisition discussions with potential target companies. If a large acquisition opportunity arises and we proceed, a substantial portion of our surplus borrowing capacity could be used for the acquisition or we may seek additional debt or equity financing. We are not presently engaged in any negotiations concerning any acquisition which may be material in size and scope to our business. We anticipate, however, that one or more potential acquisition opportunities could become available in the future. If and when appropriate acquisition opportunities become available, we may pursue them actively. Any acquisition may or may not occur and, if an acquisition does occur, it may not be successful in enhancing our business for one or more of the following reasons: • Any business acquired may not be integrated successfully and may not prove profitable; • The price we pay for any business acquired may overstate the value of that business or otherwise be too high; • We may fail to achieve acquisition synergies; or • The focus on the integration of operations of acquired entities may divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operation of our businesses. Inherent in any future acquisition is the risk of transitioning company cultures and facilities. The failure to efficiently and effectively achieve such transitions could increase our costs and decrease our profitability. If we are unable to continue our technological innovation in our business and successful introduction of new commercial products, our profitability could be adversely affected. The industries we serve, particularly the energy and biomedical industries, experience periodic technological change and product improvement. Manufacturers periodically introduce new generations of products or require new technological capacity to develop customized products or respond to industry developments or needs. Our future growth will depend on our ability to gauge the direction of the commercial and technological progress in our markets, as well as our ability to acquire new product technology or fund and successfully develop, manufacture and market products in this constantly changing environment. We must continue to identify, develop, manufacture and market innovative products on a timely basis to replace existing products in order to maintain our profit margins and competitive position. We may not be successful in acquiring and developing new products or technology and any of our new products may not be accepted by our customers. If we fail to keep pace with evolving technological innovations in the markets we serve, our profitability may decrease. We carry significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet, which are subject to impairment testing and could subject us to significant charges to earnings in the future if impairment occurs. As of December 31, 2006, we had goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets of $281.2 million, which represented approximately 39% of our total assets. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are tested for impairment annually or more often if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment may exist. Factors that could indicate that our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets are impaired include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, lower than projected operating results and cash flows, and slower growth rates in our industry. To test for impairment, a model to estimate the fair market value of our reporting segments has been developed. This fair market value model incorporates our estimates of future operating results and cash flows, estimates of allocations of certain assets and cash flows among reporting segments, estimates of future growth rates and our judgment regarding the applicable discount rates to use to discount those estimated operating results and cash flows. If an impairment is determined to exist, we are required to record a charge to earnings in our financial statements, which may be significant, as in 2002 when we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $92.4 million to write off non-deductible goodwill of the D&S segment. While we do not presently anticipate that any of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets will be impaired in the foreseeable future, if an impairment is determined to exist and we are required to record a charge to earnings, it may result in significantly decreased profitability and shareholders’ equity. 12 Table of Contents We may be required to make material expenditures in order to comply with environmental, health and safety laws, or incur additional liabilities under these laws. We are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that impose various environmental controls on us or otherwise relate to environmental protection and various health and safety matters, including the discharge of pollutants in the air and water, the handling, use, treatment, storage and clean-up of solid and hazardous materials and wastes, the investigation and remediation of soil and groundwater affected by hazardous substances and the requirement to obtain and maintain permits and licenses. These laws and regulations often impose strict, retroactive and joint and several liability for the costs of, and damages resulting from, cleaning up our, or our predecessors’, past or present facilities and third party disposal sites. Compliance with these laws generally increases the costs of transportation and storage of raw materials and finished products, as well as the costs of storing and disposing waste, and could decrease our liquidity and profitability and increase our liabilities. Health and safety and other laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate, impose various requirements on us including state licensing requirements that may benefit our customers. If we are found to have violated any of these laws, we may become subject to corrective action orders and fines or penalties, and incur substantial costs, including substantial remediation costs including commercial liability to our customers. For example, in a project involving over $20 million in total revenue, we are subject to an investigation that commenced in the fourth quarter of 2006 by state regulators concerning whether one of our subsidiaries is required to have a license to install our manufactured equipment. Although we do not believe we are required to be licensed, if we were formally found to be in violation of the licensing requirement, we could owe substantial penalties to the state or be required to return job revenues to the customer. Further, we also could be subject to future liability resulting from conditions that are currently unknown to us that could be discovered in the future. We are currently remediating or developing work plans for remediation of environmental conditions involving certain current or former facilities. For example, the discovery of contamination arising from historical industrial operations at our Clarksville, Arkansas property has exposed us, and in the future may continue to expose us, to remediation obligations. To date, our environmental remediation expenditures and costs for otherwise complying with environmental laws and regulations have not been material, but the uncertainties associated with the investigation and remediation of contamination and the fact that such laws or regulations change frequently makes predicting the cost or impact of such laws and regulations on our future operations uncertain. Stricter environmental, safety and health laws, regulations or enforcement policies could result in substantial costs and liabilities to us and could subject us to more rigorous scrutiny. Consequently, compliance with these laws could result in significant expenditures as well as other costs and liabilities that could decrease our liquidity and profitability and increase our liabilities. The insolvency of our formerly consolidated subsidiary, Chart Heat Exchangers Limited, could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and financial position. On March 28, 2003, our U.K. subsidiary, Chart Heat Exchangers Limited, or CHEL, which previously operated the closed Wolverhampton, United Kingdom manufacturing facility, filed for a voluntary administration under the U.K. Insolvency Act of 1986. CHEL’s application for voluntary administration was approved on April 1, 2003 and an administrator was appointed. Additionally, we received information that indicated that CHEL’s net pension plan obligations had increased significantly, primarily due to a decline in plan asset values and interest rates, as well as increased plan liabilities, resulting in an estimated plan deficit of approximately $12 million as of March 2003. Based on our financial condition in March 2003, we determined not to advance funds to CHEL in amounts necessary to fund CHEL’s obligations. Since CHEL was unable to fund its net pension deficit, the trustees of the CHEL pension plan requested a decision to wind-up the plan from a U.K. pension regulatory board. That board approved the wind-up as of March 28, 2003. While no claims related to the CHEL insolvency presently are pending against us, persons impacted by the insolvency or others could bring pension and/or benefit related claims against us. Claims may be asserted against us for pension or other obligations of CHEL related to these matters. To the extent we are found to have significant liability with respect to CHEL’s obligations, such liability could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, profitability and financial condition as a result of CHEL’s insolvency. 13 Table of Contents Due to the nature of our business and products, we may be liable for damages based on product liability and warranty claims. Due to the high pressures and low temperatures at which many of our products are used and the fact that some of our products are relied upon by our customers or end users in their facilities or operations, or are manufactured for relatively broad consumer use, we face an inherent risk of exposure to claims in the event that the failure, use or misuse of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury, property damage or economic loss. We believe that we meet or exceed existing professional specification standards recognized or required in the industries in which we operate. We have been subject to claims in the past, none of which have had a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, and we may be subject to claims in the future. Although we currently maintain product liability coverage, which we believe is adequate for the continued operation of our business, such insurance may become difficult to obtain or unobtainable in the future on terms acceptable to us and may not cover warranty claims. A successful product liability claim or series of claims against us, including one or more consumer claims purporting to constitute class actions, in excess of our insurance coverage or a significant warranty claim or series of claims against us could materially decrease our liquidity and impair our financial condition. Increases in labor costs, potential labor disputes and work stoppages at our facilities could materially decrease our revenues and profitability. Our financial performance is affected by the availability of qualified personnel and the cost of labor. As of February 28, 2007, we had 2,703 employees, including 904 salaried, 323 bargaining unit hourly and 1,476 non-bargaining unit hourly employees. Employees represented by a union were subject to one collective bargaining agreement in the United States that expired in February 2007. A new three-year agreement was entered into in February 2007, and expires in February 2010. In connection with negotiating this new collective bargaining agreement, we experienced a work stoppage from the time that the previous agreement expired on February 3, 2007 until the terms of the new agreement were reached on February 7, 2007. If we are unable to enter into new, satisfactory labor agreements with our unionized employees when necessary in the future or other labor controversies or union organizing efforts arise, we could experience a significant disruption to our operations, lose business or experience an increase in our operating expenses, which could reduce our profit margins. We may have to make significant cash payments to our defined benefit pension plans, reducing the cash available for our business. We have four defined benefit pension plans covering certain U.S. hourly and salaried employees. All of these plans have been frozen. Our current funding policy is to contribute at least the minimum funding amounts required by law. Based on current actuarial estimates, we contributed approximately $1.3 million to our U.S. defined benefit pension plans during 2006 and expect to contribute $0.7 million during 2007. If the performance of our assets in our pension plans does not meet our expectations or if other actuarial assumptions are modified, our contributions could be higher than we expect, thus reducing the available cash for our business. Fluctuations in exchange and interest rates may affect our operating results. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar may decrease our sales or earnings. Because our consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into U.S. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings. We also bid for certain foreign projects in U.S. dollars. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the value of the local currency, we may be less competitive on those projects. In addition, our debt service requirements are primarily in U.S. dollars and a portion of our cash flow is generated in euros or other foreign currencies. Significant changes in the value of the foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could limit our ability to meet interest and principal payments on our debt and impair our financial condition. In addition, fluctuations in currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. For purposes of accounting, the assets and liabilities of our foreign operations, where the local currency is the functional currency, are translated using period-end exchange rates, and the revenues and expenses of our foreign operations are translated using average exchange rates during each period. 14 Table of Contents In addition to currency translation risks, we incur currency transaction risk whenever we or one of our subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency other than the local currency of the transacting entity. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to effectively manage our currency and/or translation risks. Volatility in currency exchange rates may decrease our revenues and profitability and impair our financial condition. We have purchased and may continue to purchase foreign currency forward purchase and sales contracts to manage the risk of adverse currency fluctuations. Our operations could be impacted by the effects of hurricanes, which could be more severe than the damage and impact that our New Iberia, Louisiana operations encountered from hurricanes in 2005. Some of our operations, including our operations in New Iberia, Louisiana and Houston, Texas, are located in geographic regions and physical locations that are susceptible to physical damage and longer-term economic disruption from hurricanes. We also could make significant capital expenditures in hurricane-susceptible locations from time to time. These weather events can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our properties and negatively affect the local economy in which these facilities operate. In 2005, for example, our New Iberia, Louisiana operations encountered some damage from the storm surge and flooding caused by Hurricane Rita. Future hurricanes may cause production or delivery delays as a result of the physical damage to the facilities, the unavailability of employees and temporary workers, the shortage of or delay in receiving certain raw materials or manufacturing supplies and the diminished availability or delay of transportation for customer shipments, any of which may have an adverse affect on our revenues and profitability. Although we maintain insurance subject to certain deductibles, which may cover some of our losses, that insurance may become unavailable or prove to be inadequate. Failure to protect our intellectual property and know-how could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage and reduce our sales and profitability. We rely on a combination of internal procedures, nondisclosure agreements, intellectual property rights assignment agreements, licenses, patents, trademarks and copyright law to protect our intellectual property and know-how. Our intellectual property rights may not be successfully asserted in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. For example, we frequently explore and evaluate potential relationships and projects with other parties, which often requires that we provide the potential partner with confidential technical information. While confidentiality agreements are typically put in place, there is a risk the potential partner could violate the confidentiality agreement and use our technical information for its own benefit or the benefit of others or compromise the confidentiality. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which our products may be sold or manufactured do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. For example, we are increasing our manufacturing capabilities and sales in China, where laws may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States. Failure or inability to protect our proprietary information could result in a decrease in our sales or profitability. We have obtained and applied for some U.S. and foreign trademark and patent registrations and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks and patents, as appropriate. We cannot guarantee that any of our pending applications will be approved. Moreover, even if the applications are approved, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge them. A failure to obtain registrations in the United States or elsewhere could limit our ability to protect our trademarks and technologies and could impede our business. The patents in our patent portfolio are scheduled to expire between 2007 and 2024. In addition, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property rights and know-how without our authorization or from independently developing intellectual property that is the same as or similar to ours, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our intellectual property rights as fully as in the United States. We compete in a number of industries (for example, heat exchangers and cryogenic storage) that are small or specialized, which makes it easier for a competitor to monitor our activities and increases the risk that ideas will be stolen. The unauthorized use of our know-how by third parties could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed, cause us to lose sales or otherwise harm our business or increase our expenses as we attempt to enforce our rights. 15 Table of Contents We may be subject to claims that our products or processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages, modify our products or processes or prevent us from selling our products. Although it is our intention to avoid infringing or otherwise violating the intellectual property rights of others, third parties may nevertheless claim that our processes and products infringe their intellectual property rights. For example, our BioMedical business manufactures products for relatively broad consumer use, is actively marketing these products in multiple jurisdictions internationally and risks infringing technologies that may be protected in one or more of these international jurisdictions as the scope of our international marketing efforts expands. Our strategies of capitalizing on growing international demand as well as developing new innovative products across multiple business lines present similar infringement claim risks both internationally and in the United States as we expand the scope of our product offerings and markets. We compete with other companies for contracts in some small or specialized industries, which increases the risk that the other companies will develop overlapping technologies leading to an increased possibility that infringement claims will arise. Whether or not these claims have merit, we may be subject to costly and time-consuming legal proceedings, and this could divert our management’s attention from operating our businesses. In order to resolve such proceedings, we may need to obtain licenses from these third parties or substantially re-engineer or rename our products in order to avoid infringement. In addition, we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to reengineer or rename our products successfully. We are subject to regulations governing the export of our products. Due to our significant foreign sales, our export activities are subject to regulation, including the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control’s regulations. While we believe we are in compliance with these regulations, we may currently or may in the future be in violation of these regulations. Any violations may subject us to government scrutiny, investigation and civil and criminal penalties and may limit our ability to export our products. Additional liabilities related to taxes could adversely impact our financial results, financial condition and cash flow. We are subject to tax and related obligations in the jurisdictions in which we operate or do business, including state, local, federal and foreign taxes. The taxing rules of the various jurisdictions in which we operate or do business often are complex and subject to varying interpretations, and tax authorities may challenge tax positions that we take or historically have taken, and may assess taxes where we have not made tax filings or may audit the tax filings we have made and assess additional taxes. Some of these assessments may be substantial, and also may involve the imposition of substantial penalties and interest. For example, a state in which we operate has asserted that we may be liable for substantial state income taxes, penalties and interest related to our operations in the state from 1993 to 2000. The taxes asserted by the state pre-date the Acquisition, and we believe that if the state issued a formal assessment and was successful in pursuing that assessment against us, the amounts owed, except for penalties and interest for periods after the Acquisition, would increase our goodwill instead of being charged against our earnings, but the negative cash flow impact could be significant and there could be a negative impact on our earnings related to post-Acquisition penalties and interest. We would vigorously contest any such assessment, if issued, including through administrative and court proceedings, but we may be unsuccessful and ultimately required to pay additional taxes, penalties and interest. The payment of substantial additional taxes, penalties or interest resulting from these assessments could materially and adversely impact our financial results, financial condition and cash flow. As a provider of products to the U.S. government, we are subject to federal rules, regulations, audits and investigations, the violation or failure of which could adversely affect our business. We sell certain of our products to the U.S. government and, therefore, we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations governing purchases by the U.S. government. Government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business with our government customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. For example, a violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the 16 Table of Contents termination of our contracts or debarment from bidding on contracts. In some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are more favorable to the government than those typically available to commercial parties in negotiated transactions. We are controlled by First Reserve, and may be required to register securities for sale by First Reserve, whose interests may not be aligned with yours or ours. First Reserve owns a significant portion of our common stock. As a result, First Reserve may have the ability to control our policies and operations, including the election of directors, the appointment of management, the entering into of mergers, sales of substantially all of our assets and other extraordinary transactions, future issuances of our common stock or other securities, the implementation of stock repurchase programs, the payments of dividends, if any, on our common stock, the incurrence of debt by us and amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. In addition, First Reserve has the right to designate members of our board of directors under its Stockholders Agreement with us as described in our public disclosures. Additionally, First Reserve is in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. First Reserve may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as First Reserve continues to own a significant amount of our equity, even if it is less than 50%, First Reserve will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. Moreover, First Reserve has the right, under its Stockholders Agreement with us, to request us to register the sale of securities held by First Reserve into the market from time to time and has the ability to exercise certain piggyback registration rights in connection with registered offerings initiated by us. These First Reserve registration rights could cause us to initiate registered securities offerings as and when requested by First Reserve when we otherwise might not have done so or to modify securities offerings from the terms we had planned, which could cause us to incur additional expense or could have a negative impact on the trading market for our securities. Our substantial leverage and significant debt service obligations could adversely affect our financial condition, limit our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from fulfilling our debt service obligations. We are highly leveraged and have significant debt service obligations. Our financial performance could be affected by our substantial leverage. As of December 31, 2006, our total indebtedness was $290.8 million. In addition, at that date, we had approximately $30.6 million of letters of credit and bank guarantees outstanding and borrowing capacity of approximately $84.4 million under the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facility, after giving effect to the letters of credit outstanding. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. This high level of indebtedness could have important negative consequences to us, including: • we may have difficulty generating sufficient cash flow to pay interest and satisfy our debt obligations; • we may have difficulty obtaining financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; • we will need to use a substantial portion of our available cash flow to pay interest and principal on our debt, which will reduce the amount of money available to finance our operations and other business activities; • some of our debt, including our borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, has variable rates of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates; • our debt level increases our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions; • our debt level could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in our industry in general; 17 Table of Contents • our substantial amount of debt and the amount we must pay to service our debt obligations could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • our customers may react adversely to our significant debt level and seek or develop alternative suppliers; and • our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt instruments which, among other things, require us to maintain specified financial ratios and limit our ability to incur debt and sell assets, could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects. Our net cash flow generated from operating activities was $36.4 million, $30.3 million (on a combined basis) and $35.1 million for the years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Our high level of indebtedness requires that we use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, which will reduce the availability of cash to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, research and development or other general corporate or business activities, including future acquisitions. In addition, a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase, debt service on our variable-rate debt will rise, which would adversely affect our cash flow. Although our senior secured credit facility requires us to employ hedging strategies such that not less than 50% of our total debt carries a fixed rate of interest for a period of three years following consummation of the Acquisition, any hedging arrangement put in place may not offer complete protection from this risk. Additionally, the remaining portion of the senior secured credit facility may not be hedged and, accordingly, the portion that is not hedged will be subject to changes in interest rates. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us under our senior secured credit facility or otherwise in an amount sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness or fund our other liquidity needs. We may be unable to refinance any of our debt, including our senior secured credit facility or our senior subordinated notes, on commercially reasonable terms. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our senior secured credit facility and the indenture under which our senior subordinated notes were issued restrict our ability to use the proceeds from asset sales. We may be unable to consummate those asset sales to raise capital or sell assets at prices that we believe are fair and proceeds that we do receive may be inadequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Despite our current leverage, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks that we face. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of our debt instruments do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. The revolving credit portion of our senior secured credit facility provides commitments of up to $115.0 million, approximately $84.4 million of which would have been available for future borrowings (after giving effect to letters of credit and bank guarantees outstanding) as of December 31, 2006. We may also increase the size of our senior secured credit facility further. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify. 18 Table of Contents The senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes contain a number of restrictive covenants which limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. The senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing the notes impose, and the terms of any future indebtedness may impose, operating and other restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. Such restrictions affect or will affect, and in many respects limit or prohibit, among other things our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens; • pay dividends and make other distributions in respect of our capital stock; • redeem our capital stock; • make certain investments or certain other restricted payments; • sell certain kinds of assets; • enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; and • effect mergers or consolidations. The senior secured credit facility also requires us to achieve certain financial and operating results and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. The restrictions contained in the senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing the notes could: • limit our ability to plan for or react to market or economic conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans; and • adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under our senior secured credit facility and/or the indenture governing the notes. If an event of default occurs under our senior secured credit facility, which includes an event of default under the indenture governing the notes, the lenders could elect to: • declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable; • require us to apply all of our available cash to repay the borrowings; or • prevent us from making debt service payments on the notes; any of which would result in an event of default under the notes. The lenders will also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further financing. If we were unable to repay or otherwise refinance these borrowings when due, our lenders could sell the collateral securing the senior secured credit facility, which constitutes substantially all of our and our domestic wholly-owned subsidiaries’ assets. We are a holding company and we depend upon cash from our subsidiaries. If we do not receive cash distributions, dividends or other payments from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to meet our obligations. We are a holding company and all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. Accordingly, we are dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of, and cash distributions, dividends and other payments from, our subsidiaries to provide the funds necessary to meet our obligations. If we do not receive such cash distributions, dividends or other payments from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to pay the principal or interest on our debt. In 19 Table of Contents addition, certain of our subsidiaries are holding companies that rely on subsidiaries of their own as a source of funds to meet any obligations that might arise. Generally, the ability of a subsidiary to make cash available to its parent is affected by its own operating results and is subject to applicable laws and contractual restrictions contained in its debt instruments and other agreements. Moreover, there may be restrictions on payments by our subsidiaries to us under applicable laws, including laws that require companies to maintain minimum amounts of capital and to make payments to shareholders only from profits. As a result, although our subsidiaries may have cash, we may be unable to obtain that cash to satisfy our obligations and make payments to our stockholders, if any. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 