D. RISK FACTORS Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before investing in our ordinary shares. Our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected due to any of the following risks. In that case, the value of our ordinary shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating To Our Business We depend on a very limited number of key customers and our principal customer is expected to reduce its purchases from us over time. If we are unable to maintain our relationship with these customers or if these customers significantly reduce the use of our NPUs in their systems, our future revenues and growth will be materially adversely affected. We currently depend on a very limited number of key customers. Juniper Networks, a major tier-1 vendor of carrier Ethernet switches/routers, or CESRs, is currently our largest customer, accounted for approximately 55% of our 2008 revenues and approximately 54% of our 2009 revenues. In October 2009, Juniper Networks announced its launch of a new family of processors and networking systems incorporating internally developed chips. We expect that over time, as this new family of Juniper Networks products replaces the products that incorporate our NPUs, Juniper Networks may significantly reduce or perhaps discontinue its purchases from us. Juniper Networks operates in the CESR segment, which is one of the five segments of the carrier Ethernet, or CE, market in which we operate. Revenues from our other leading customer, which is a larger tier-1 vendor than Juniper Networks and which operates in several segments of the CE market, are not yet material and accounted for less than 10% of our 2009 revenues. It typically takes carriers at least one year to approve new products before installing them in their network. The ramp up during that period is difficult to predict and can cause revenue volatility that we occasionally see during the first year of production of a new platform. Once approved however, such products can ramp up quickly and be continuously purchased for a long period. For example, our NP-2 processors that started to ship in 2006, are still in the ramp up phase of their lifecycle, which is expected to continue through 2010, while sales of our NP-3 processors are now just initiating and are expected to start reaching meaningful levels in 2010. We believe we will begin generating significant revenues from our other leading customer before Juniper Networks reduces or discontinues its purchases from us in the future. However, due to the lengthy design and development cycle, and other matters beyond our control, it is difficult to predict when Juniper Networks will begin to reduce or discontinue its purchases from us, and when our other leading customer will enter a ramp up phase. Furthermore, we may not generate a significant level of revenues in the future from our other leading customer, who may purchase significantly lower quantities in the event the products that incorporate our network processors are not commercially successful, or due to global economic conditions or other conditions beyond our control. In addition, our future revenues and growth will depend in large part on our relationship with other vendors in the CE market. If any of these vendors decide not to incorporate our products into their future CE products or to cease incorporating our network processors in their current products, or purchases significantly lower quantities than expected due to global economic conditions or otherwise, or if the products that incorporate our network processors are not commercially successful, our future revenues and the growth of our business will be materially adversely affected. 7 Unfavorable global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The recent crisis in the financial and credit markets in the United States, Europe and Asia led to a global economic slowdown, with the economies of the United States and Europe showing significant signs of weakness. Although global economic conditions have begun to stabilize or improve, the markets in which we operate remain weak. If the economies in the countries in which we operate continue to be weak or weaken further, carriers in such countries may reduce or postpone their technology spending significantly. This could result in reductions in sales of networking equipment that incorporate our products, longer sales cycles, slower implementation of new carrier Ethernet networks and increased price competition. Any of these events would likely harm our business, operating results and finan cial condition. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States, Europe or Asia or other key markets remain weak or weaken further, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We are dependent on the networking equipment market for our growth, and if it does not grow, then we will not be able to expand our business. Although there are many companies operating in the networking equipment market, a significant portion of the market is controlled by a limited number of companies. The growth of our network processor business depends in part on increased acceptance and use of networking equipment that is developed and manufactured by companies with significant market share. We depend on the ability of our target customers, specifically those with a significant share of the networking equipment market, to develop new products and enhance existing products for the networking equipment market that incorporate our products and to introduce and promote their products successfully. The market for networking equipment depends in part upon the market's acceptance of packet-based converged telecom networks, in particular carrie r Ethernet networks, as well as 10 Gigabit and greater Ethernet technologies that enable the forwarding of data at a high speed. Ultimately, the development rate of these technologies may be slower than we anticipate. If the use of such networking equipment does not grow as we anticipate due to global market conditions or otherwise, if we are unsuccessful in maintaining our relationships with our current customers, specifically those with a significant share of the networking equipment market, and creating relationships with other target customers with significant market share, if our target customers do not incorporate our products into theirs, or if the products of our target customers that incorporate our network processors are not commercially successful, our growth will be impeded. We have had a limited operating history in the network processor industry and our future financial results are difficult to predict. Our future success will be subject to the risks we will encounter in the network processor industry. We have a limited operating history in the industry, with our first product sales in the second quarter of 2002 and total sales through December 31, 2009 of approximately $114 million. We have incurred operating losses in four of our last five fiscal years (with the exception of 2009). Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate the prospects of our business, particularly in light of the current global economic conditions. Moreover, the network processor industry is constantly evolving and is subject to technological and competitive forces beyond our control. Our ability to design and market products to meet customer demand and the revenue and income potential of o ur products and business are unproven. As an early stage company in the developing network processor industry, we face numerous risks and uncertainties. Some of these risks relate to our ability to: · expand and enhance our product offerings; · increase our revenues; · diversify our sources of revenue; · respond to technological changes; · respond to competitive market conditions; and · respond to global economic conditions. If we fail to address these risks and uncertainties, our results of operations will be adversely affected. 8 We may experience difficulties or delays in the introduction of our new family of network processors and other new and enhanced products. We recently announced a new family of network processors targeting Ethernet Access applications. Several models of the network processors, named NPA, were sampled in the fourth quarter of 2009. The NPA product family addresses the transition of carrier access from ATM/TDM based networks to Ethernet packet-based networks and the provisioning of triple-play services that command increased bandwidth and service guarantees to residential and business users. We may not be successful in developing, introducing and marketing these new offerings or in addressing all or any portion of the potential market for these offerings. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these offe rings. Furthermore, our new offerings may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. If we do not timely develop and introduce these offerings or respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions, customer requirements or global economic conditions, the growth of our business may be adversely affected. In addition, the development of our NP-4 and NPA network processors is a complex and uncertain process. We are engaged in the development of very advanced technologies. We may experience design, manufacturing, marketing and other difficulties that could delay the development or marketing of these network processors. The difficulties could result in reduced sales, loss of existing and potential customers, unexpected expenses or delays in the launch of these network processors, all which may adversely affect our results of operations. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are much larger than us, and if we are unable to compete effectively we could lose our market share and revenues. The market for network processors is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to rapid technological change. We believe that competition in this market will become more intense in the future and may cause price reductions, reduce gross margins and result in loss of market share, any one of which could significantly reduce our future revenue and increase our losses. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, product development and marketing resources, greater name recognition and significantly larger customer bases than we do. In addition, we face competition from current and prospective customers who may choose to develop their own network processors. Additionally, many of our competitors also have well-established relationships with our prospective customers and suppliers and prospective customers may have competitive reasons to prefer our competitors. As a result of these factors, many of our competitors, either alone or with other companies, have significant influence in our target markets that could outweigh our technological advantage. Our products may have defects, which could damage our reputation, decrease market acceptance of our products, cause us to lose customers and revenue, increase production costs and result in liability. Highly complex products such as network processors may contain hardware or software defects or bugs. Often, these defects and bugs are not detected until after the products have been shipped. If any of our products contain defects, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation might be damaged significantly and customers might be reluctant to buy our products, which could result in the loss of or failure to attract customers. In addition, these defects could interrupt or delay sales. We may have to invest significant capital and other resources to correct these problems. If any of these problems are not found until after we have commenced commercial production of a new product, we might incur substantial additional development costs. If we fail to provide solutions to the problems, such as software patches, we could also incur product recall, repair or replacement costs. These problems might also result in claims against us by our customers or others. In addition, these problems might divert technical and other resources from other development efforts. Moreover, we would likely lose, or experience a delay in, market acceptance of the affected product or products, and we could lose credibility with our current and prospective customers. This is particularly significant as we are relatively a new entrant to a market dominated by large, well-established companies. We may have to redesign our products to meet rapidly evolving industry standards and customer specifications, which could delay our production and increase our operating costs. We operate in a market characterized by rapidly evolving industry standards, product obsolescence, and new manufacturing and design technologies. Many of the standards and protocols for our products are based on high speed networking technologies that have not been widely adopted or ratified by one of the standard setting bodies in our customers' industry. 9 Our target customers, network equipment manufacturers, are likely to have varying requirements and may delay or alter their design demands during this standard-setting process. In response, we may have to redesign our products to suit these changing demands, which would likely delay the production of our future products and increase operating costs. Because our products have lengthy design and development cycles, we could experience delays in generating revenues or cancellation of customer contracts. We may never generate significant revenues from our newly developed products after incurring significant design and development expenditures. A customer may decide to cancel or change its product plans, which could cause us to generate no revenue from that customer and adversely affect our results of operations. A delay or cancellation of a customer's plans could significantly adversely affect our financial results. Even after winning a design contract, a customer may not begin volume production of our equipment for a period of up to two years, if at all. Due to this lengthy design and development cycle, a significant period may elapse from the time we begin incurring expenses until the time we generate revenue from our products, during which market conditions may change. We have no assurances that our customers will ultimately market and sell their equipment incorporating our network processors, or that such efforts by our customers will be successful. The loss of personnel could affect our ability to design and market our products. To succeed, we must retain and hire technical personnel highly skilled in the design and test of functions used to develop Ethernet network processors and related software. The competition for such employees is intense. We, along with our competitors, customers and other companies in the communications industry, face intense competition for those employees from competitors and from an increasing number of emerging startup companies with potentially lucrative employee ownership arrangements. Recruiting, hiring and retaining key personnel can also result in significant monetary costs. If we are unable to adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and other measures, our competitors and third party manufacturers could use our proprietary information and we could lose our competitive advantage. To compete effectively, we must protect our proprietary information. We rely on and intend to rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. Our failure to adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property from use by our competitors and third party manufacturers could jeopardize our competitive advantage, and result in a loss of customers. We have a number of issued patents, however, the patents that have been issued may not provide any meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us, as they may not be of sufficient scope or strength, or may not be issued in all countries where our products can be sold. 0; In addition, our competitors may be able to design around our patents. Our products employ technologies that may infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties, which may expose us to litigation and prevent us from selling our products. Vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions characterize the semiconductor industry. This often results in expensive and lengthy litigation. We, as well as our customers or suppliers, may be accused of infringing on patents or other intellectual property rights owned by third parties. An adverse result in any litigation could force us to pay substantial damages, stop designing or manufacturing, using and selling the infringing products, spend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, indemnify third parties, discontinue using certain processes or obtain licenses to use the infringing technology. In addition, we may not be able to develop non-infringing technology, nor might we be able to find appropriate licenses on reasonably satisfactory t erms. Because the processes used to manufacture our products are complex, customized to our specifications and can only be performed by a limited number of manufacturing facilities, we may experience delays in production and increased costs. The manufacture of processors is a highly complex and technically demanding process. Defects in design or problems associated with transitions to newer manufacturing processes or new manufacturers can result in unacceptable manufacturing yields and performance. These problems are frequently difficult to detect in the early stages of the production process and can be time-consuming and expensive to correct once detected. As a result, defects, performance problems with our products or poor manufacturing yields could adversely affect our business and operating results. 10 If third-party manufacturers and other suppliers terminate our arrangement with them, or amend them in a manner detrimental to us, we may experience delays in production and our business maybe adversely affected. The fabrication of our network processors is outsourced to third-party manufacturers and subcontractors. There are significant risks associated with our reliance on third-party manufacturers. Most significantly, if our manufacturing suppliers are unable or unwilling to provide us with adequate manufacturing capacity, we would have to identify and qualify one or more substitute suppliers for our products. Our manufacturers may experience unanticipated events that could inhibit their abilities to provide us with adequate manufacturing capacity on a timely basis, or at all. Historically, there have been periods in which there has been a worldwide shortage of manufacturer capacity for the production of high-performance processors such as ours. Introducing new products or transferring existing products to a new third party manufacturer would require significant development time to adapt our designs to their manufacturing processes and could cause product shipment delays. In addition, the costs associated with manufacturing our products may increase if we are required to use a new third party manufacturer. If we fail to satisfy our manufacturing requirements, our business would be materially harmed. We have entered into an agreement with a sole supplier for the manufacture of each of our existing network processor models and we expect to use a sole supplier for our next generation of network processors as well. Our NP-3 network processors are manufactured by IBM. Our NP-2 network processor, our special version NP-3 network processor, and our NPA and NP-4 network processors (which have recently sampled), are or are expected to be manufactured by Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., or TSMC, through third parties that coordinate and assume responsibility for various aspects of the manufacturing process. IBM, TSMC or any future sole supplier for our current and future products may reduce or delay shipment if its ability to manufacture network processors is constrained. If a sole supplie r of our network processors, a third party that arranges for their manufacture, or any other subcontractor fails to deliver network processors or necessary components or services on time or at all, our business could be severely harmed. In addition, if the current manufacturing arrangement between our third party subcontractor and TSMC is terminated or amended in a manner detrimental to us, it could adversely affect our business while we try to make alternative arrangements with substitute suppliers. These and other risks associated with our reliance on a third-party manufacturer could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The performance of the capital markets may significantly decrease the value of our marketable securities and may cause us to incur impairment charges relating to our investment portfolio. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the funds we hold in marketable securities, which as of December 31, 2009 totaled $29.5 million. These securities are subject to market fluctuations. For example, in 2008 and into first half of 2009, the credit and capital markets deteriorated significantly and adversely impacted the fair value of our investments. Future turmoil in the capital markets may result in impairments of the carrying value of our investment assets. Realized or unrealized losses in our investments or in our other financial assets may adversely affect our financial condition. We may fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results and the market price of our ordinary shares. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404, which started in connection with our 2006 Annual Report on Form 20-F, have resulted in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of resources. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires (i) management's annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and (ii) a statement by management that its independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting, in connection with the filing of the Annual Report on Form 20-F for each fiscal year. 0;If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ordinary shares. 11 Risks Relating to Our Ordinary Shares Our share price has been highly volatile and may continue to be volatile and decline. The trading price of our shares has fluctuated widely in the past, including in recent months and weeks, and may continue to do so in the future as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in the last year that have affected the market prices of many companies, including technology companies, and have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our shares. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Securities class action litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. Future exercises of our options and vesting of our restricted share units may result in substantial dilution and future sales of these ordinary shares may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. Future exercises of our options and vesting of our restricted share units may result in substantial dilution and future sales of these ordinary shares may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our ordinary shares, or the availability of our ordinary shares for future sale, will have on the market price of our ordinary shares. Sales of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public marketplace by us or our shareholders, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and may make it more difficult for investors to sell ordinary shares at a time and price which such investors deem appropriate. We have never paid cash dividends and have no intention to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our shares and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain earnings, if any, for use in our business, in particular to fund our research and development, which are important to capitalize on technological changes and develop new products and applications. Any future dividend distributions are subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on various factors, including our operating results, future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, tax implications of dividend distributions on our income, future prospects and any other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. The distribution of dividends also may be limited by Israeli law, which permits the distribution of dividends only out of retained earnings or otherwise upon the permission of the court. You should not rely on an investment in our company if you require dividend income from your investment. Our ordinary shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are traded primarily on the NASDAQ Global Market and also on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets is made in different currencies (U.S. dollars on the NASDAQ Global Market, and New Israeli Shekels, or NIS, on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). Consequently, the trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets often differ. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. Risks Relating To Our Location In Israel Political, economic and military instability in Israel may disrupt our operations and negatively affect our sales. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, and our principal executive offices and principal research and development facilities are located in Israel. Political, economic and security conditions in Israel directly influence us. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, Israel and its Arab neighbors have engaged in a number of armed conflicts. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Major hostilities between Israel and its neighbors may hinder Israel's international trade and lead to economic downturn. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business. There has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity in Israel, which began in Sep tember 2000 and which has continued with varying levels of severity through 2009. Recently, there was an escalation in violence among Israel, Hamas, the Palestinian Authority and other groups. Hamas launched hundreds of missiles from the Gaza Strip against Israeli population centers, which led to an armed conflict between Israel and Hamas during December 2008 and January 2009. Ongoing violence between Israel and the Palestinians as well as tension between Israel and neighboring countries may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. 12 Additionally, some of our key employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces and are subject to being called for active military duty at any time in the event of a national emergency. If a military conflict or war arises, such as the hostilities along Israel's border with the Gaza Strip at the beginning of 2009, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our key employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations would harm our business. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may affect our operating results. A significant portion of the cost of our Israeli operations, mainly personnel costs, is incurred in NIS. Therefore, our NIS related costs, as expressed in U.S. dollars, are influenced by the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the NIS. Since 2007, the NIS has generally appreciated against the U.S. dollar, which resulted in a significant increase in the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in Israel. NIS linked balance sheet items may create foreign exchange gains or losses, depending upon the relative dollar values of the NIS at the beginning and end of the reporting period, affecting our net income and earnings per share. Although we may use hedging techniques we cannot completely eliminate the effects of currency fluctuations. Exchange rate fluctuations resulting in a devalu ation of the U.S. dollar compared to the NIS could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and share price. Tax benefits that are available to us require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our future tax expenses. Our facilities in Israel have been granted Approved Enterprise status under the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, commonly referred to as the Investment Law. The Investment Law provides that capital investments in a production facility (or other eligible assets) may be designated as an Approved Enterprise. Until recently, the designation required advance approval from the Investment Center of the Israel Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor. On April 1, 2005, an amendment to the Investment Law came into effect, which revised the criteria for investments qualified to receive tax benefits. An eligible investment program under the amendment will qualify for benefits as a Privileged Enterprise (rather than the previous terminology of Approved Enterprise). Among other things, the amendment provides tax benefits to both local and foreign investors and simplifies the approval process. The amendment does not apply to investment programs approved prior to December 31, 2004 and applies to new investment programs only. In order to be eligible for tax benefits, we must comply with various conditions, as well as periodic reporting obligations. If we fail to meet these requirements, we would be subject to corporate tax in Israel at the regular statutory rate. We could also be required to refund tax benefits, with interest and adjustments for inflation based on the Israeli consumer price index. As of December 31, 2009, we did not generate income under the provisions of the amended Investment Law. The government grants we have received for research and development expenditures limit our ability to transfer technologies outside of Israel and require us to satisfy specified conditions. If we fail to satisfy these conditions, we may be required to refund grants previously received together with interest and penalties, and may be subject to criminal charges. Since April 2006, our research and development efforts have been financed, in part, through grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, or OCS. We therefore must comply with the requirements of the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development, 1984 and related regulations, or the Research Law. If we fail to comply with any of the requirements imposed by the OCS, such as change of control notices and annual reporting requirements, we may be required to refund any grants previously received together with interest and penalties, and a person who transferred OCS-funded technology may be subject to criminal charges and up to three years imprisonment. 13 In recent years, the Government of Israel has reduced the benefits available under these programs, and these programs may be discontinued or curtailed in the future. If the Government of Israel discontinues or modifies these programs, or we are unable to comply with the new requirements, our expenses will increase significantly, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Technology developed by OCS funding may only be transferred subject to the prior approval of an OCS committee and, under certain circumstances, also to the payment of a redemption fee which is a certain percentage of the price paid in connection with such a transfer. A transfer, for the purpose of OCS rules, includes an actual sale of the technology, any exclusive license to develop, market, and manufacture products resulting from the technology or any other transaction which in essence constitutes a transfer of the technology and does not include the worldwide sale of products that are based on technology developed with OCS funding. We may not receive the required approvals should we wish to transfer this technology in the future. These restrictions may impair our ability to sell our technology assets , and the restrictions will continue to apply even after we have repaid the full amount of royalties payable for the grants. In addition, the restrictions may impair our ability to consummate a merger or similar transaction in which the surviving entity is not an Israeli company. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us or our officers and directors, to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel or serve process on substantially all of our officers and directors. We are organized under the laws of the State of Israel. Substantially all of our executive officers and directors and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to collect a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of these persons, or to effect service of process upon these persons in the United States. Furthermore, it may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at a general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable in shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company's articles of association, increases in a company's authorized share capital, mergers and in terested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a controlling shareholder, a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote, and a shareholder that possesses the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company has a duty of fairness toward the company. The Israeli Companies Law also provides that a breach of the duty of fairness will be governed by the laws governing breach of contract; however, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. There is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. Some of the provisions of Israeli law could: · discourage potential acquisition proposals; · delay or prevent a change in control; and · limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our ordinary shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers and acquisitions of shares through tender offers, requires approvals for transactions involving significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israel tax law treats stock-for-stock acquisitions between an Israeli company and a foreign company less favorably than does U.S. tax law. For example, Israeli tax law may subject a shareholder who exchanges his ordinary shares for shares in a foreign corporation to immediate taxation or to taxation before his investment in the foreign corporation becomes liquid. These provisions may adversely affect the price of our shares. 14 As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. We follow Israeli law and practice instead of NASDAQ rules regarding the director nominations process, compensation of executive officers and the requirement to obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of The NASDAQ Listing Rules. We do not comply with NASDAQ requirements regarding the director nominations process and compensation of executive officers, which require that director nominees and compensation of executive officers be selected/determined, or recommended for the board of directors selection/determination, either by a majority of the independent directors or a committee comprised solely of independent directors. Instead, we follow Israeli law and practice in accordance with which our directors are recommended by our board of directors for election by our shareholders and our board of directors determines executi ve compensation, subject to the required approvals under Israeli law. In addition, we follow our home country law, instead of the NASDAQ Listing Rules, which require that we obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans and arrangements, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. Under Israeli law and practice, in general, the approval of the board of directors is required for the establishment or amendment of equity based compensation plans and arrangements, unless the arrangement is for the benefit of a director, or a controlling shareholder, in which case audit committee and shareholder approval are also required. Similarly, the approval of the board of directors is generally suffic ient for a private placement unless the private placement involves a director, a controlling shareholder or is deemed a "significant private placement," in which case shareholder approval, and, in some cases, audit committee approval, would also be required. The Israeli Companies Law defined a "significant private placement" as a private placement (i) resulting in a party becoming a controlling shareholder, or (ii) involving the issuance of a 20% or more voting rights in the company, which (A) results in a 5% or more shareholder increasing its interest in the company or an offeree becoming a 5% or more shareholder, and (B) involves consideration that is not solely cash or public traded securities, or is not on fair market terms. As a foreign private issuer listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, we may also follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, composition of the board of directors and quorum at shareholders' meetings. A foreign private issuer that elec ts to follow a home country practice instead of NASDAQ requirements must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer's home country certifying that the issuer's practices are not prohibited by the home country's laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under NASDAQ's corporate governance rules. 