D. RISK FACTORS Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before investing in our ordinary shares. Our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected due to any of the following risks. In that case, the value of our ordinary shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating To Our Business We depend on a very limited number of key customers. If we are unable to maintain our relationship with these customers or if these customers significantly reduce the use of our network processor units, or NPUs, in their systems or do not elect to use our future products, our future revenues and growth will be materially adversely affected. We currently depend on a very limited number of key customers. We anticipate that a significant portion of our future revenues will continue to be derived from sales to a small number of customers. During the year ended December 31, 2013, 73% of our revenues were attributable to three customers. Cisco Systems, Inc., or Cisco, the largest vendor of Carrier Ethernet switch/routers, which is currently our largest customer, accounted for approximately 27%, 43% and 39% of our revenues in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. Revenues from Cisco are generated through Marvell Technology Group Ltd., or Marvell, pursuant to a royalty arrangement. Cisco currently uses our NP-3 and NP-4 processors in its products and we expect Cisco to also use the NP-5 that is expected to enter production in 2014. The growth of our revenues will depend in large part on the revenues we generate from Marvell attributable to Cisco. If Cisco purchases significantly lower quantities than expected due to global economic conditions or otherwise, or if the products that incorporate our network processors are not commercially successful, or if Cisco does not elect our future products, our future revenues and the growth of our business will be materially adversely affected. Our future growth will also be dependent in great measure upon the continued acceptance and utilization of our current and future products by ZTE Corporation, or ZTE, which accounted for approximately 11%, 13% and 15% of our revenues in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively, and upon the continued acceptance and utilization of our current and future products by our other customers (excluding Cisco, ZTE and Juniper Networks), that as a group accounted for 38%, 27% and 27% of our 2011, 2012 and 2013 revenues, respectively. If ZTE or a few of these vendors decide not to incorporate our products into their future products or to cease incorporating our network processors in their current products, or purchases significantly lower quantities than expected due to global economic conditions or otherwise, or if the products that incorporate our network processors are not commercially successful, our future revenues and the growth of our business will be materially adversely affected. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are much larger than us and we also face major competition from most of our large customers' internal chip design teams; if we are unable to compete effectively we could lose our market share and revenues. The market for network processors is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to rapid technological change. There are currently two vendors in addition to us that provide high-speed network processors that target the metro and access switches and edge routers: Broadcom Corporation and Marvell, the sole supplier of our special version NP-3 network processor and our NP-4 and NP-5 network processors). We also experience major competition from most of our large customers' internal chip design teams who develop their own network processors or in-house application-specific integrated circuit, or ASIC, solutions, especially in the Carrier Ethernet Switch Routers, or CESR, segment. For example, Juniper Networks, which uses our NP-2 processors and was until 2010 our largest customer accounting for approximately 40%, 24%, 17% and 19% of our revenues in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively, announced in October 2009 that it was launching a new family of processors and networking systems incorporating internally developed chips. This new family of products replaces the products that incorporate our NPUs, and Juniper Networks has significantly reduced and will eventually discontinue its purchases from us. Another example is Huawei, which has developed a product based on our NP-4 network processor, but also offers a lower-end in-house solution in parallel to our high-end NP-4 solution. 3 Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, product development and marketing resources, greater name recognition and significantly larger customer bases than we do. Furthermore, as a late comer to the data center market, we face a greater level of competition and we may be unsuccessful in winning designs and selling to the markets we are currently targeting and in achieving significant revenues from this market. Additionally, many of our competitors also have well-established relationships with our prospective customers and suppliers, and our prospective customers may have competitive reasons to prefer our competitors. As a result of these factors, many of our competitors, either alone or with other companies, have significant influence in our target customers and markets that could outweigh our technological advantage. We believe that competition in this market will become more intense in the future and may cause price reductions, reduce gross margins and may result in loss of market share, any one of which could significantly reduce our future revenue and decrease our net income. We depend on the networking equipment market for our growth, and in particular the market for Carrier Ethernet edge routers, and if it does not grow, or if our customers’ products are not successful then we will not be able to expand our business. Although there are many companies operating in the networking equipment market, a significant portion of the market is controlled by a limited number of companies. The growth of our network processor business depends in part on increased acceptance and use of networking equipment that is developed and manufactured by companies with significant market share, particularly Carrier Ethernet edge routers. We depend on the ability of our target customers, specifically those with a significant share of the networking equipment market, to develop new products and enhance existing products for the networking equipment market that incorporate our products and to introduce and promote their products successfully. If the use of such networking equipment does not grow as we anticipate, if we are unsuccessful in maintaining our relationships with our current customers, specifically those with a significant share of the networking equipment market, such as Cisco and ZTE, and creating relationships with other target customers with significant market share, if our target customers do not incorporate our products into theirs, or if the products of our target customers that incorporate our network processors are not commercially successful or if the demand for such products is adversely affected by technology developments, our growth will be impeded. For example, in recent years, new network paradigms are being explored that are expected to result in networks transitioning in coming years to new architectures based on concepts and technologies brought about by network virtualization, Software Defined Networking (SDN) and Network Functions Virtualization (NFV), which present risks to the incumbent networking equipment vendors. If SDN and NFV solutions are adopted in a significant manner in carrier and data center networks and our current customers do not adapt to changing market dynamics or we are not selected for new SDN and NFV solutions delivered by new emerging players, then our future revenues and the growth of our business will be materially adversely affected. In addition, the development rate of the networking equipment market also depends to a large extent on the level of spending by carriers. For example, in 2012 there was a decline in the levels of carriers’ expenditures on wire-line equipment, including edge routers. Such decline in expenditures has affected the pace at which our target customers develop new products and enhance existing products for the networking equipment market that incorporate our products. If challenging economic conditions resume, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. We may experience difficulties or delays in the development or introduction of our new family of network processors and other new and enhanced products, including our NPS and NP-5 products, and the development expenses and manufacturing costs may be very expensive. In 2010, we started the development of a new product line, the NPS – a Network Processor for Smart networks. The NPS is a new innovative type of network processor that addresses the growing need for networking equipment to perform the ‘traditional’ Layer 2-3 switching and routing along with Layer 4-7 Deep Packet Inspection of the packet’s payload. We currently expect the NPS-400 to be first implemented in customer product prototypes in 2015 and then proceed into production in 2016, with the target applications including Carrier Ethernet edge routers, mobile/wireless packet core infrastructure, security systems, data center traffic aggregation and load balancing switches, as well as NFV and SDN solutions. 4 We have heavily invested in the development of this new product line and the development expenses and manufacturing costs are very expensive. In 2013, more than 50% of our research and development expenses were related to the NPS, and we expect that most of our research and development expenses in the next few years will be similarly related to NPS. Such development will likely result in a significant increase in our operating expenses in the next few years. We may not be successful in developing, introducing and marketing our new offerings or in addressing all or any portion of the potential market for such offerings. The development process for these advanced products is lengthy and highly expensive and requires us to accurately anticipate technological innovations and market trends. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these offerings. In addition, despite our efforts to implement network security measures, our offerings may also be vulnerable to computer viruses, computer hackers, cyber-terrorist and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. Our new offerings may also not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. Furthermore, as a late comer to the data center market we face a greater level of competition and we may be unsuccessful in winning designs and selling to the markets we are currently targeting and/or selling in significant amounts. If we do not timely develop and introduce these offerings or respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions, customer requirements or global economic conditions, or if development expenses or manufacturing costs substantially increase, our business revenues and profits will be adversely affected. We may have to redesign our products to meet rapidly evolving industry standards and customer specifications, which could delay our production and increase our operating costs. We operate in a market characterized by rapidly evolving industry standards, product obsolescence, and new manufacturing and design technologies. Many of the standards and protocols for our products are based on high speed networking technologies that have not been widely adopted or ratified by one of the standard setting bodies in our customers’ industry. Our target customers, network equipment manufacturers, are likely to have varying requirements and may delay or alter their design demands during this standard-setting process. In response, we may have to redesign our products to suit these changing demands, which would likely delay the production of our future products and increase operating costs. Because our products have lengthy design and development cycles and the development of our network processors is a complex and uncertain process, we could experience delays in generating revenues or cancellation of customer contracts. We may generate significantly less revenues than we expect from our newly developed products after incurring significant design and development expenditures. Customers may decide to cancel, delay or change their product plans, which could cause us to generate less revenue and adversely affect our results of operations. Even after winning a design contract, a customer may not begin volume production of its equipment for a period of up to two years, if at all. Due to this lengthy design and development cycle, a significant period may elapse from the time we begin incurring expenses until the time we generate revenue from our products, during which market conditions may change. We have no assurances that our customers will ultimately market and sell their equipment incorporating our network processors, or that such efforts by our customers will be successful. In addition, the development of our network processors is a complex and uncertain process. We may experience design, manufacturing, marketing and other difficulties that could delay the development or marketing of these network processors. The difficulties could result in reduced sales, loss of existing and potential customers and unexpected expenses or delays in the launch of these network processors, all which may adversely affect our results of operations. 5 We may acquire in the future businesses or technologies. We may be unsuccessful in integrating any acquired businesses or technologies, and these acquisitions could divert our resources, cause dilution to our shareholders and adversely affect our financial results. We may use a significant amount of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities to acquire complementary businesses or technologies. We have not made any acquisitions to date and our management has not had any experience making acquisitions or integrating acquired businesses. Negotiating potential acquisitions or integrating newly acquired businesses or technologies into our business could divert our management's attention from other business concerns and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are consummated. Furthermore, in the event that we are able to identify and consummate any future acquisitions, we could (i) issue equity securities which would dilute current shareholders’ percentage ownership; (ii) incur substantial debt; (iii) assume contingent liabilities; or (iv) expend significant cash. In addition, if we acquire additional businesses, we may not be able to integrate the acquired personnel, operations, and technologies successfully or effectively manage the combined business following the completion of the acquisition. We may also not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business due to a number of factors, including (A) unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisition; (B) incurrence of acquisition-related costs; (C) diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; (D) harm to our existing business relationships with distributors and customers as a result of the acquisition; (E) inability to retain employees from the acquired company; (F) use of resources that are needed in other parts of our business; (G) litigation or other claims arising in connection with the acquired company; (H) the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; (I) use of substantial portions of our available cash to consummate the acquisition; or (J) unrealistic goals or projections for the acquisition. Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or investments, incur unanticipated liabilities and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. There are significant risks associated with our reliance on third-party sole suppliers for each of our network processors, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The fabrication of our network processors is outsourced to third-party manufacturers and subcontractors. There are significant risks associated with our reliance on third-party manufacturers. Most significantly, if our manufacturing suppliers are unable or unwilling to provide us with adequate manufacturing capacity, we would have to identify and qualify one or more substitute suppliers for our products. Our manufacturers may experience unanticipated events that could inhibit their abilities to provide us with adequate manufacturing capacity on a timely basis, or at all. Historically, there have been periods in which there has been a worldwide shortage of manufacturer capacity for the production of high-performance processors such as ours. Introducing new products or transferring existing products to a new third-party manufacturer would require significant development time to adapt our designs to their manufacturing processes and could cause product shipment delays. In addition, the costs associated with manufacturing our products may increase if we are required to use a new third-party manufacturer. If we fail to satisfy our manufacturing requirements, our business would be materially harmed. We have an agreement with a sole supplier for the manufacture of each of our existing network processor models and we expect to use a sole supplier for our next generation of network processors as well. Any current or future sole supplier for our current and future products may reduce or delay shipment if its ability to manufacture network processors is constrained. If a sole supplier of our network processors, a third party that arranges for their manufacture, or any other subcontractor fails to deliver network processors or necessary components or services on time or at all, our business could be severely harmed. In addition, if the current manufacturing arrangement between our third-party subcontractor and our sole manufacturer is terminated or amended in a manner detrimental to us, it could adversely affect our business while we try to make alternative arrangements with substitute suppliers. These and other risks associated with our reliance on a single third-party supplier and manufacturer could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 Our products employ technologies that may infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties, which may expose us to litigation and prevent us from selling our products. Vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions characterize the semiconductor industry. This often results in expensive and lengthy litigation. We, as well as our customers or suppliers, may be accused of infringing on patents or other intellectual property rights owned by third parties. An adverse result in any litigation could force us to pay substantial damages, stop designing or manufacturing, using and selling the infringing products, spend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, indemnify third parties, discontinue using certain processes or obtain licenses to use the infringing technology. In addition, we may not be able to develop non-infringing technology, nor might we be able to find appropriate licenses on reasonably satisfactory terms. Unfavorable global economic conditions affect the level of spending by carriers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In 2013, economies around the world and financial markets remained volatile as a result of a multitude of factors, including instability in the European market, adverse business and credit conditions, intermittent slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, fluctuating energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced capital spending, liquidity concerns and other factors. In periods of weakness and increased volatility, many companies reduce expenditures and remain reluctant to increase expenditures, including carriers’ expenditures on edge routers and other wire-line equipment. The development rate of the networking equipment market also depends to a large extent on the level of spending by carriers. For example, the 2012 decline in the levels of carriers’ expenditures on wire-line equipment, including edge routers, has affected the pace in which our target customers develop new products and enhance existing products for the networking equipment market that incorporate our products. Worsening economic conditions may result in diminished demand for our products and technology, reductions in sales of networking equipment that incorporate our products, longer sales cycles, slower implementation of new Carrier Ethernet networks and increased price competition. Any of these events would likely harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If challenging economic conditions continue or worsen, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods, and other catastrophic events, and to interruption by man-made problems such as terrorism. We have operations, suppliers and customers in regions that have historically experienced natural disasters. Any earthquake or other natural disaster, including a hurricane, flood, volcanic eruption, tsunami or fire, affecting any of these regions could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. While we maintain insurance coverage for some of these events, the potential liabilities associated with these events could exceed the insurance coverage we maintain. Our inability to operate as a result of such events, even for a limited period of time, may result in significant expenses and/or loss of market share to other competitors in the market for network processors. In addition, as a result of a natural disaster, our major customers may face shortages of components that could negatively impact the demand for our products even if the supply of our products is not directly affected by the natural disaster. For example, the earthquake, tsunami and related events that occurred in Japan in March 2011, and the extensive flooding that occurred in Thailand beginning in October 2011, caused widespread destruction in regions that include suppliers of components for many technology companies. System security risks, data protection breaches and cyber-attacks could disrupt our internal operations, and any such disruption could reduce our expected revenues, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our business. We may be subject to attempts to breach the security of our networks and IT infrastructure through cyber-attack, malware, computer viruses and other means of unauthorized access. The potential liabilities associated with these events could exceed the insurance coverage we maintain. Our inability to operate our facilities as a result of such events, even for a limited period of time, may result in significant expenses or loss of market share to other competitors in the market for network processors. In addition, a failure to protect the privacy of customer and employee confidential data against breaches of network or IT security could result in damage to our reputation. To date, we have not been subject to cyber-attacks or other cyber incidents which, individually or in the aggregate, resulted in a material impact to our operations or financial condition. Any of these occurrences could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 7 Our products may have defects, which could damage our reputation, decrease market acceptance of our products, cause us to lose customers and revenue, increase production costs and result in liability. The manufacture of processors is a highly complex and technically demanding process. Defects in design or problems associated with transitions to newer manufacturing processes or new manufacturers can result in unacceptable manufacturing yields and performance. These problems are frequently difficult to detect in the early stages of the production process and can be time-consuming and expensive to correct once detected. If any of our products contain defects, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation might be damaged significantly and customers might be reluctant to buy our products, which could result in the loss of or failure to attract customers. In addition, these defects could interrupt or delay sales. We may have to invest significant capital and other resources to correct these problems. If any of these problems are not found until after we have commenced commercial production of a new product, we might incur substantial additional development costs. If we fail to provide solutions to the problems, such as software patches, we could also incur product recall, repair or replacement costs. These problems might also result in claims against us by our customers or others. In addition, these problems might divert technical and other resources from other development efforts. Moreover, we would likely lose, or experience a delay in, market acceptance of the affected product or products, and we could lose credibility with our current and prospective customers. This is particularly significant as we are relatively a new entrant to a market dominated by large, well-established companies. The loss of personnel could affect our ability to design and market our products. If we are unable to hire, integrate and retain qualified personnel, our business will suffer. To succeed, we must retain and hire technical personnel highly skilled in the design and test of functions used to develop Ethernet network processors and related software. We face intense competition for our technical personnel from our competitors, customers, other companies in the communications industry and from an increasing number of emerging startup companies with potentially lucrative employee ownership arrangements. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business, operations and product development efforts would suffer. In addition, recruiting, hiring and retaining key personnel can also result in significant monetary costs. If we are unable to adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and other measures, our competitors and third party manufacturers could use our proprietary information and we could lose our competitive advantage. To compete effectively, we must protect our proprietary information. We rely on and intend to continue to rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. Our failure to adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property from use by our competitors and third party manufacturers could jeopardize our competitive advantage, and result in a loss of customers. We have a number of issued patents. However, the patents that have been issued may not provide any meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us, as they may not be of sufficient scope or strength, or may not be issued in all countries where our products may be sold. The performance of the capital markets may significantly decrease the value of our marketable securities and may cause us to incur impairment charges relating to our investment portfolio. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the funds we hold in marketable securities, which as of December 31, 2013 totaled $49.8 million. These securities are subject to market fluctuations. For example, in 2008 and into first half of 2009, the credit and capital markets deteriorated significantly and adversely impacted the fair value of our investments. Future turmoil in the capital markets may result in impairments of the carrying value of our investment assets. Realized or unrealized losses in our investments or in our other financial assets may adversely affect our financial condition. We may fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results and the market price of our ordinary shares. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404 have resulted in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of resources. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires (i) management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and (ii) a statement by management that its independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting, in connection with the filing of the Annual Report on Form 20-F for each fiscal year. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ordinary shares. 8 We may be subject to risks associated with laws, regulations and customer initiatives relating to the environment, conflict minerals or other social responsibility issues. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act included disclosure requirements regarding the use of "conflict" minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries (DRC) and procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to prevent the sourcing of such "conflict" minerals. The implementation of these requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices. As a result, this could limit the pool of suppliers who can provide us DRC "conflict free" components and parts, and we may not be able to obtain DRC "conflict free" products or supplies in sufficient quantities for our operations. Also, because our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers, shareholders and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for the minerals used in our products. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which would subject our U.S. investors to adverse tax rules. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for any taxable year in which either: (i) 75% or more of our gross income is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the average quarterly value of our assets for the taxable year produce or are held for the production of passive income. Based on our current and projected income, assets and activities, we believe that we are not currently a PFIC. To calculate the average quarterly value of our gross assets, we have assumed that our total asset value is equal to our market capitalization (the aggregate value of our outstanding shares) plus our liabilities. Because we are engaged in an active business, we believe that the goodwill or going concern value that is represented by the difference between our market capitalization and the net book value of our assets should generally be treated as an active asset. In determining that we are not a PFIC under the asset test, we have relied upon this assumption. Even if we are not now a PFIC, we could become a PFIC if our market capitalization were to decrease significantly while we still hold substantial cash. If we were classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, highly complex rules would apply to U.S. holders owning our ordinary shares and such U.S. holders could suffer adverse U.S. tax consequences. Accordingly, you are urged to consult your tax advisors regarding the application of such rules. For more information please see “Item 10E. Taxation – United States Federal Income Taxation – Passive Foreign Investment Companies.” Risks Relating to Our Ordinary Shares Our share price has been highly volatile and may continue to be volatile and decline. The trading price of our shares has in the past and continues to fluctuate widely and may continue to do so in the future as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in the last few years that have affected the market prices of many companies, including technology companies, and have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our shares. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Securities class action litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. 9 Future exercises of our options and vesting of our restricted share units may result in substantial dilution and future sales of these ordinary shares may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. Future exercises of our options and vesting of our restricted share units may result in substantial dilution and future sales of these ordinary shares may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our ordinary shares, or the availability of our ordinary shares for future sale, will have on the market price of our ordinary shares. Sales of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public marketplace by us or our shareholders, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and may make it more difficult for investors to sell ordinary shares at a time and price which such investors deem appropriate. We have never paid cash dividends and have no intention to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our shares and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain earnings, if any, for use in our business, in particular to fund our research and development, which are important to capitalize on technological changes and develop new products and applications. Any future dividend distributions are subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on various factors, including our operating results, future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, tax implications of dividend distributions on our income, future prospects and any other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. The distribution of dividends also may be limited by Israeli law, which permits the distribution of dividends only out of retained earnings or otherwise upon the permission of the court. Our ordinary shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are traded primarily on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and also on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets is made in different currencies (U.S. dollars on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, and NIS, on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). Consequently, the trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets often differ. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. Risks Relating to Our Location in Israel Political, economic and military instability in Israel and its region may disrupt our operations and negatively affect our sales. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, and our principal executive offices and principal research and development facilities are located in Israel. Political, economic and security conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. Since its establishment, there have been periods with varying levels of severity of unrest and terrorist activity within Israel and at its borders, which still continue to present day, namely the ongoing hostilities between Israel, terrorist groups in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, and in the northern border with Lebanon. In recent years, there have been hostilities along Israel's border with the Gaza Strip, and missiles were fired from the Gaza Strip into Israel in 2012 and 2013. The future effect of this violence on the Israeli economy and our operations is unclear. Recent political events in various countries in the Middle East, such as Syria, Iran and Egypt, have weakened the stability of those countries. This instability may lead to deterioration of the geo-political conditions in the Middle East. In addition, such instability may affect the global economy and marketplace as a result of changes in oil and gas prices. Since our headquarters and research and development facilities are located in the State of Israel, any such events that affect the State of Israel may impact us in unpredictable ways. If our operations are significantly impacted by such events, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Some of our key employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces and are subject to being called for active military duty at any time in the event of a national emergency. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our key employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations would harm our business. 10 Several countries, principally in the Middle East, restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional countries may impose restrictions on doing business with Israel and Israeli companies whether as a result of hostilities in the region or otherwise. In addition, there have been increased efforts by activists to cause companies and consumers to boycott Israeli goods based on Israeli government policies. Such actions, particularly if they become more widespread, may adversely impact our ability to sell our products. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may affect our operating results. A significant portion of the cost of our Israeli operations, mainly personnel costs, is incurred in NIS. Therefore, our NIS related costs, as expressed in U.S. dollars, are influenced by the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the NIS. In the past, the NIS exchange rate with the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies has fluctuated, generally reflecting inflation rate differentials. We cannot predict any future trends in the rate of inflation in Israel or the rate of depreciation or appreciation of the NIS against the U.S. dollar. NIS linked balance sheet items may create foreign exchange gains or losses, depending upon the relative dollar values of the NIS at the beginning and end of the reporting period, affecting our net income and earnings per share. Although we may use hedging techniques we cannot completely eliminate the effects of currency fluctuations. Exchange rate fluctuations resulting in the depreciation of the U.S. dollar compared to the NIS could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and share price. Tax benefits that are available to us require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our future tax expenses. Currently we have five programs under the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, or the Investment Law, which entitle us to certain tax benefits. Our facilities in Israel have been granted Approved Enterprise status under the Investment Law and we have four programs that qualify as Privileged Enterprises pursuant to an amendment to the Investment Law that came into effect in April 2005. Among other things, the Investment Law, as amended in 2005, provides tax benefits to both local and foreign investors and simplifies the approval process. Such amendments do not apply to investment programs approved prior to December 31, 2004. Therefore, our Approved Enterprise program is not subject to the provisions of the amendment, but our four Privileged Enterprise programs are subject to the amendment. In order to be eligible for tax benefits under the Investment Law, our Approved Enterprise and Privileged Enterprises must comply with various conditions set forth in the Investment Law and the criteria set forth in the applicable certificate of approval for the Approved Enterprise, as well as periodic reporting obligations. If we fail to meet these requirements, we would be subject to corporate tax in Israel at the regular statutory rate. Additionally, some of these programs and the related tax benefits are available to us for a limited number of years, and these benefits expire from time to time. We could also be required to refund tax benefits, with interest and adjustments for inflation based on the Israeli consumer price index. Additional details are provided in “Item 10 – Additional Information” under the caption “Israeli tax considerations, foreign exchange regulations and investment programs”. If the Government of Israel discontinues or modifies these programs and potential tax benefits, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The government grants we receive for research and development expenditures fund a significant portion of our research and development expenses and limit our ability to transfer technologies outside of Israel and require us to satisfy specified conditions. Our research and development efforts are financed, in part, through grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Economy, or OCS. We therefore must comply with the requirements of the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development, 1984 and related regulations, or the Research Law. If we fail to comply with any of the requirements imposed by the OCS, such as change of control notices and annual reporting requirements, we may be required to refund any grants previously received together with interest and penalties, and a person who transferred OCS-funded technology may be subject to criminal charges and imprisonment. We received research and development grants of approximately $5.1 million in 2013 and $5.9 million in 2012, which funded approximately 16% and 23% of our research and development expenses in 2013 and 2012, respectively. In recent years, the Government of Israel has reduced the benefits available under these programs, and these programs may be discontinued or curtailed in the future. If the Government of Israel discontinues or modifies these programs, or we are unable to comply with the new requirements, our expenses will increase significantly, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 11 Technology developed by OCS funding may only be transferred subject to the prior approval of an OCS committee and, under certain circumstances, also to the payment of a redemption fee which is a certain percentage of the price paid in connection with such a transfer. A transfer, for the purpose of OCS rules, includes an actual sale of the technology, any exclusive license to develop, market, and manufacture products resulting from the technology or any other transaction which in essence constitutes a transfer of the technology and does not include the worldwide sale of products that are based on technology developed with OCS funding. We may not receive the required approvals should we wish to transfer this technology in the future. These restrictions may impair our ability to sell our technology assets, and the restrictions will continue to apply even after we have repaid the full amount of royalties payable for the grants. In addition, the restrictions may impair our ability to consummate a merger or similar transaction in which the surviving entity is not an Israeli company. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us or our officers and directors, to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel or serve process on substantially all of our officers and directors. We are organized under the laws of the State of Israel. Substantially all of our executive officers and directors and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to collect a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of these persons, or to effect service of process upon these persons in the United States. Furthermore, it may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at a general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable in shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a controlling shareholder, a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote, and a shareholder that possesses the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company has a duty of fairness toward the company. The Israeli Companies Law also provides that a breach of the duty of fairness will be governed by the laws governing breach of contract; however, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. There is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. Some of the provisions of Israeli law could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change in control and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our ordinary shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers and acquisitions of shares through tender offers, requires approvals for transactions involving significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israel tax law treats stock-for-stock acquisitions between an Israeli company and a foreign company less favorably than does U.S. tax law. For example, Israeli tax law may subject a shareholder who exchanges his ordinary shares for shares in a foreign corporation to immediate taxation or to taxation before his investment in the foreign corporation becomes liquid. These provisions may adversely affect the price of our shares. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. We follow Israeli law and practice instead of NASDAQ rules regarding the director nominations process and the requirement to obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market Rules. We follow Israeli law and practice instead of the NASDAQ Stock Market Rules, regarding the director nomination process and the requirement to obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events (such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company). As a foreign private issuer listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we may also follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, compensation of officers and quorum at shareholders' meetings. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of NASDAQ requirements must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer's home country certifying that the issuer's practices are not prohibited by the home country's laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under NASDAQ's corporate governance rules. 12 