Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to investors who purchase our common stock. You should carefully consider the following risks together with the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. This section contains forward-looking statements. You should refer to the explanation of the qualification and limitations of forward-looking statements set forth at the beginning of this Annual Report. Risks Related to Our Business We depend on contracts with the U.S. federal government for substantially all of our revenues. If our relationships with the federal government were harmed, our business, future revenues and growth prospects could be adversely affected. We expect that federal government contracts will continue to be the primary source of our revenues for the foreseeable future. We derived approximately 98.3%, 98.1% and 97.8% for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, of our revenues from our federal government customers (consisting primarily of national security and homeland defense customers in the departments of Defense, State, Homeland Security and Justice; various intelligence agencies; federal intelligence and terrorism task forces; the U.S. Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps; joint military commands; and other U.S. federal government customers including NASA and the PTO). Our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed if: • We are suspended or debarred from contracting with the federal government or a significant government agency; • Our reputation or relationship with government agencies is impaired; or • The government ceases to do business with us, or significantly decreases the amount of business it does with us. Among the key factors in maintaining our relationships with federal government agencies are our performance on individual contracts and task orders, the strength of our professional reputation and the relationships of our senior management with our customers. Federal government spending and mission priorities may change in a manner that adversely affects our future revenues and limits our growth prospects. Our business depends upon continued federal government expenditures on intelligence, defense and other programs that we support. These expenditures have not remained constant over time. For example, the overall U.S. defense budget declined for periods of time in the late 1980s and the early 1990s, resulting in a slowing of new program starts, program delays and program cancellations. These reductions caused many defense-related government contractors to experience declining revenues, increased pressure on operating margins and, in some cases, net losses. While spending authorizations for intelligence and defense-related programs by the government have increased in recent years, particularly after the 2001 terrorist attacks and more recently in support of U.S. war efforts in Southwest Asia, future levels of expenditures, mission priorities and authorizations for these programs may decrease, remain constant or shift to programs in areas where we do not currently provide services. Current federal government spending levels on defense-related programs are in part related to the U.S. military operations in Afghanistan and Iraq, and may not be sustainable, as a result of changes in government leadership, policies or priorities. Additionally, our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed by the following: • Budgetary constraints affecting federal government spending generally, or specific departments or agencies in particular, and changes in fiscal policies or available funding; • Changes in federal government programs or requirements; 13 Table of Contents • Realignment of funds with changed federal government priorities, which may impact the U.S. war efforts, including reductions in funds for in-theater missions; • Federal government shutdowns (such as that which occurred during the federal government’s 1996 fiscal year) and other potential delays in the government appropriations process; • Delays in the payment of our invoices by federal government offices; • Curtailment of the federal government’s outsourcing of mission critical support and information technology services; • Competition and consolidation in the information technology industry; • The adoption of new laws or regulations; and • General economic conditions. These or other factors could cause federal government agencies and departments to reduce their purchases under contracts, exercise their right to terminate contracts or not exercise options to renew contracts, any of which could cause us to lose revenue. A significant decline in overall U.S. government spending or a shift in expenditures away from agencies or programs that we support could cause a material decline to our revenues. The failure by Congress to approve budgets on a timely basis for the federal agencies we support could delay procurement of our services and solutions and cause us to lose future revenues. On an annual basis, Congress must approve budgets that govern spending by the federal agencies that we support. In years when Congress is not able to complete its budget process before the end of the federal government’s fiscal year on September 30, Congress typically funds government operations pursuant to a continuing resolution. A continuing resolution allows federal government agencies to operate at spending levels approved in the previous budget cycle. When the U.S. government operates under a continuing resolution, it may delay funding we expect to receive from clients on work we are already performing and will likely result in new initiatives being delayed or in some cases cancelled. If we fail to comply with complex procurement laws and regulations, we could lose business and be liable for various penalties or sanctions. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts. These laws and regulations affect how we conduct business with our federal government contracts. In complying with these laws and regulations, we may incur additional costs. Non-compliance may also allow for the assignment of additional fines and penalties, including contractual damages. Among the more significant laws and regulations affecting our business are the following: • The Federal Acquisition Regulation, which comprehensively regulates the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts; • The Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; • The Cost Accounting Standards and Cost Principles, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based federal government contracts; • Laws, regulations and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the export of certain products, services and technical data; • U.S export controls, which apply when we engage in international work; and • Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Failure to comply with these control regimes can lead to severe penalties, both civil and criminal, and can include debarment from contracting with the U.S. government. 14 Table of Contents Our contracting agency customers periodically review our performance under and compliance with the terms of our federal government contracts. If a government review or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties or administrative sanctions, including: • Termination of contracts, • Forfeiture of profits, • Cost associated with triggering of price reduction clauses, • Suspension of payments, • Fines and • Suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. Additionally, the civil False Claims Act provides for potentially substantial civil penalties where, for example, a contractor presents a false or fraudulent claim to the government for payment or approval. Actions under the civil False Claims Act may be brought by the government or by other persons on behalf of the government (who may then share a portion of any recovery). If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we may also suffer harm to our reputation, which could impair our ability to win awards of contracts in the future or receive renewals of existing contracts. If we are subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions or suffer harm to our reputation, our current business, future prospects, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed. The federal government may change its procurement or other practices in a manner adverse to us. The federal government may change its procurement practices, including proposed acquisition reforms, or adopt new contracting laws, rules or regulations, such as cost accounting standards. It could also adopt new socio-economic requirements, or could curtail the outsourcing of various types of work, which could reduce our revenue opportunities. For example, certain government agencies have begun insourcing various types of inherently governmental services, and other government agencies could adopt similar practices, which could adversely affect our revenues. These changes could impair our ability to obtain new contracts or win re-competed contracts. Any new contracting methods could be costly or administratively difficult for us to satisfy and, as a result, could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. Unfavorable federal government audit results could subject us to penalties or sanctions, adversely affect our profitability, harm our reputation and relationships with our customers or impair our ability to win new contracts. The Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) and other government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contracts and systems. These agencies review a contractor’s performance on its contract, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The DCAA also reviews the adequacy of, and a contractor’s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s accounting, purchasing, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Allegations of impropriety or deficient controls could harm our reputation or influence the award of new contracts. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. Recently, U.S. Government contractors, including our Company, have seen a trend of increased scrutiny by the DCAA and other U.S. Government agencies. If any of our internal control systems or policies is found non-compliant or inadequate, payments may be suspended under our contracts or we may be subjected to increased government scrutiny and approval that could delay or adversely affect our ability to invoice and receive timely payment on our contracts, perform contracts or compete for contracts with the U.S. Government. As a result, a DCAA audit could materially affect our competitive position and result in a substantial adjustment to our revenues. DCAA audits for costs incurred on work performed after 2005 have not yet been completed. In addition, government agency audits on a certain cost center of the Company have not 15 Table of Contents been completed for the years 2002 through 2004 and one of our foreign operations has not yet been audited for 2003 and 2004. While we believe that the vast majority of such costs will be approved upon final audit, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments and, if any future audit adjustments exceed our estimates, our profitability could be adversely affected. U.S. Government contractors are subject to a greater risk of investigation, criminal prosecution civil fraud, whistleblower lawsuits and other legal actions and liabilities than companies with solely commercial customers. Additionally, contractors that provide support services to U.S. forces in Southwest Asia have come under increasing scrutiny by agency inspector generals, government auditors and congressional committees. If a government audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. More generally, increased scrutiny and investigation into business practices and into major programs supported by contractors may lead to increased legal costs and may harm our reputation and profitability if we are among the targeted companies, regardless of the underlying merit of the allegations being investigated. Federal government contracts contain provisions giving government customers a variety of rights that are unfavorable to us, including the ability to terminate a contract at any time for convenience. Federal government contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that give the government rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts. These provisions may allow the government to: • Terminate existing contracts for convenience, as well as for default; • Reduce orders under, or otherwise modify contracts or subcontracts; • Cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable; • Decline to exercise an option to renew a multi-year contract; • Suspend or debar us from doing business with the federal government or with a governmental agency; • Prohibit future procurement awards with a particular agency as a result of a finding of an organizational conflict of interest based upon prior related work performed for the agency that would give a contractor an unfair advantage over competing contractors; • Subject the award of contracts to protest by competitors, which may require the contracting federal agency or department to suspend our performance pending the outcome of the protest; • Claim rights in products and systems produced by us; and • Control or prohibit the export of our products and services. If the government terminates a contract for convenience, we may recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the termination. If the government terminates a contract for default, we may not even recover those amounts and instead may be liable for excess costs incurred by the government in procuring undelivered items and services from another source. If one of our government customers were to unexpectedly terminate, cancel or decline to exercise an option to renew one or more of our significant contracts or programs, our revenues and operating results would be materially harmed. 16 Table of Contents We derive significant revenues from contracts awarded through a competitive bidding process. This process can impose substantial costs upon us and we may lose revenue if we fail to compete effectively. We derive significant revenue from federal government contracts that are awarded through a competitive bidding process. We expect that a significant portion of our future business will also be awarded through competitive bidding. Competitive bidding presents a number of risks, including: • Bidding on programs in advance of the completion of their design, this may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns; • Spending substantial cost and managerial time and effort to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us, which may result in reduced profitability; • Failing to accurately estimate the resources and cost structure that will be required to service any contract we are awarded; • Incurring expense and delay due to a competitor’s protest or challenge of contract awards made to us, including the risk that any such protest or challenge could result in the resubmission of bids on modified specifications, or in the termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract, which may result in reduced profitability; • Changes to client bidding practices or government reform of its procurement practices, which may alter the prescribed contract relating to contract vehicles, contract types and consolidations; and • Changes in policy and goals by the government providing set-aside funds to small businesses, disadvantaged businesses and other socio-economic requirements in the allocation of contracts. If we are unable to win particular contracts that are awarded through the competitive bidding process, in addition to the risk that our operating results may be adversely affected, we may be unable to operate in the market for services that are provided under those contracts for a number of years. Even if we win a particular contract through competitive bidding, our profit margins may be depressed as a result of the costs incurred through the bidding process. We may lose money on some contracts if we do not accurately estimate the expenses, time and resources necessary to satisfy our contractual obligations. We enter into three types of federal government contracts for our services: cost-plus, time-and-materials and fixed-price. For our last two fiscal years, we derived revenue from such contracts as follows: Contract Type 2009 2008 Time-and-Materials 68.1 % 66.1 % Cost-Plus 19.6 % 20.4 % Fixed-Price 12.3 % 13.5 % Each of these types of contracts, to varying degrees, involves some risk that we could underestimate our cost of fulfilling the contract, which may reduce the profit we earn or lead to a financial loss on the contract. • Under time-and-materials contracts, we are reimbursed for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. We assume financial risk on time-and-materials contracts because we assume the risk of performing those contracts at negotiated hourly rates. • Under cost-plus contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance-based. To the extent that the actual costs incurred in performing a cost-plus contract are within the contract ceiling and allowable under the terms of the contract and applicable regulations, we are entitled to reimbursement of our costs, plus a profit. However, if our costs exceed the ceiling or are not allowable under the terms of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to recover those costs. 17 Table of Contents • Under fixed-price contracts, we perform specific tasks for a fixed price. Compared to cost-plus contracts, fixed-price contracts generally offer higher margin opportunities, but involve greater financial risk because we bear the impact of cost overruns and bear the risk of underestimating the level of effort required to perform the contractual obligations, which could result in increased costs and expenses. Our profits could be adversely affected if our costs under any of these contracts exceed the assumptions we used in bidding for the contract. Over time, and particularly if we acquire other businesses, our contract mix may change, thereby potentially increasing our exposure to these risks. We may not receive the full amount authorized under our contracts and we may not accurately estimate our backlog, which could adversely affect our future revenues and growth prospects. As of December 31, 2009, our estimated contract backlog totaled approximately $3.8 billion, of which approximately $1.1 billion was funded. Backlog is our estimate of the remaining future revenues from existing signed contracts, assuming the exercise of all options relating to such contracts and including executed task orders issued under ID/IQ contracts. Backlog also includes estimates of revenues for solutions that we believe we will be asked to provide in the future under the terms of ID/IQ contracts for which we have an established pattern of revenue. Our estimates are based on our experience using such vehicles and similar contracts; however, we cannot assure that all, or any, of such estimated contract revenue will be recognized as revenue. The U.S. government’s ability to modify, curtail or terminate our major programs or contracts makes the calculation of backlog subject to numerous uncertainties. There can be no assurance that our backlog projections will result in actual revenue in any particular period, or at all, or that any contract included in backlog will be profitable. There is a higher degree of risk in this regard with respect to unfunded backlog, since it contains management’s estimate of amounts expected to be realized on unfunded contract work that may never be realized as revenues. If we fail to realize as revenues those amounts included in our backlog, our future revenue and growth prospects may be adversely affected. If we fail to recruit and retain skilled employees or employees with the necessary security clearances, we might not be able to perform under our contracts or win new business and our growth may be limited. To be competitive, we must have employees who have advanced information technology and technical services skills and who work well with our customers in a government or defense-related environment. Often, these employees must have some of the highest security clearances in the United States. These employees are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource in the foreseeable future. Recruiting, training and retention costs can place significant demands on our resources. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of these employees, our ability to maintain and grow our business could be negatively impacted. If we are required to engage larger numbers of contracted personnel, our profit margins could be adversely affected. In addition, some of our contracts contain provisions requiring us to commit to staff a program with certain personnel the customer considers key to our successful performance under the contract. In the event we are unable to provide these key personnel or acceptable substitutions, the customer may terminate the contract and we may not be able to recover certain incurred costs. Failure to maintain strong relationships with other contractors could result in a decline in our revenues. In 2009 and 2008, we derived 35.2% and 52.1% of our revenues, respectively, from contracts in which we acted as a subcontractor to other contractors. Additionally, where we are named as a prime contractor, we may sometimes enlist other companies to perform some services under the contract as subcontractors. We expect to continue to depend on relationships with other contractors for a portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results could be harmed if other contractors eliminate or reduce their contracts or joint venture relationships with us because they choose to establish relationships with our competitors; they choose to directly offer services that compete with our business; the government terminates or reduces these other contractors’ programs; or the government does not award them new contracts. 18 Table of Contents Our overall profit margins on our contracts may decrease and our results of operations could be adversely affected if materials and subcontract revenue grow at a faster rate than labor-related revenues. Our revenues are generated both from the efforts of our technical staff (labor-related revenue) and from the receipt of payments for the costs of materials and subcontracts we use in connection with performing our services (materials and subcontract revenue). Generally, our materials and subcontract revenues have lower profit-margins than our labor-related revenues. If our materials and subcontract revenues grow at a faster rate than labor-related revenues, our overall profit margins may decrease and our profitability could be adversely affected. We face risks associated with our international business. Approximately 1.0% and 1.1% of our total consolidated revenues in 2009 and 2008, respectively, was generated by our entities outside of the United States. These international business operations are subject to a variety of risks associated with conducting business internationally, including: • Changes in or interpretations of foreign laws or policies that may adversely affect the performance of our services; • Political instability in foreign countries; • Imposition of inconsistent laws or regulations; • Conducting business in places where laws, business practices and customs are unfamiliar or unknown; • Imposition of limitations on or increase of withholding and other taxes on payments by foreign subsidiaries or joint ventures; • Compliance with a variety of U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, by us or subcontractors; and • Compliance with U.S. export control regulations. Although revenues generated from our international operations have not been significant to date, we do not know the impact that these regulatory, geopolitical and other factors could have on our business in the future. Our business operations involve considerable risks and hazards. An accident or incident involving our employees or third parties could harm our reputation, affect our ability to compete for business, and if not adequately insured or indemnified, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business involves providing services that require some of our employees to operate in countries that may be experiencing political unrest, war or terrorism, including Afghanistan and Iraq. As a result, during the course of such deployments we are exposed to liabilities arising from accidents or incidents involving our employees or third parties. Any of these types of accidents or incidents could involve significant potential injury or other claims by employees and/or third parties. It is also possible that we will encounter unexpected costs in connection with additional risks inherent in sending our employees to dangerous locations, such as increased insurance costs, as well as the repatriation of our employees or executives for reasons beyond our control. We maintain insurance policies that mitigate risk and potential liabilities related to our operations. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover those claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident or incident. Substantial claims in excess of our related insurance coverage could adversely affect our operating performance and may result in additional expenses and possible loss of revenue. Furthermore, any accident or incident for which we are liable, even if fully insured, may result in negative publicity which could adversely affect our reputation among our customers and the public, which could result in us losing existing and future contracts or make it more difficult to compete effectively for future contracts. This could adversely affect our operating performance and may result in additional expenses and possible loss of revenue. 19 Table of Contents Acquisitions or joint ventures could result in operating difficulties, dilution or other adverse consequences to our business. One of our key operating strategies is to selectively pursue acquisitions. We have made a number of acquisitions in the past and we expect that a significant portion of our future growth will continue to come from these transactions. We evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures and other investments on an ongoing basis. Our acquisitions pose many risks, including: • We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates at prices we consider attractive; • We may not be able to compete successfully for identified acquisition candidates, complete future acquisitions or accurately estimate the financial effect of acquisitions on our business; • Future acquisitions may require us to issue common stock or spend significant cash, resulting in dilution of ownership or additional leverage; • We may have difficulty retaining an acquired company’s key employees or customers; • We may have difficulty integrating acquired businesses, resulting in unforeseen difficulties, such as incompatible accounting, information management or other control systems; • Acquisitions may disrupt our business or distract our management from other responsibilities; and • As a result of an acquisition, we may need to record write-downs from future impairments of intangible assets, which could reduce our future reported earnings. In connection with any acquisition that we make, there may be liabilities that we fail to discover or that we inadequately assess. Acquired entities may not operate profitably or result in improved operating performance. Additionally, we may not realize anticipated synergies. If our acquisitions perform poorly, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. We have substantial investments in recorded goodwill and changes in future business conditions could cause these investments to become impaired, requiring substantial write-downs that would reduce our operating income and financial position. As of December 31, 2009, our goodwill was $488.2 million. We evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. The annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. Principally, a decrease in expected reporting unit cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. If there is an impairment, we would be required to write down the recorded amount of goodwill, which would be reflected as a charge against operating income. Many of our federal government customers execute their procurement budgets through multiple award contracts under which we are required to compete for post-award orders, or for which we may not be eligible to compete, potentially limiting our ability to win new contracts and increase revenue. Budgetary pressures and reforms in the procurement process have caused many U.S. federal government customers to increasingly purchase goods and services through multiple award ID/IQ contracts and other multiple award and/or GWAC vehicles. These contract vehicles require that we make sustained post-award efforts to obtain task orders under the relevant contract. There can be no assurance that we will obtain revenues or otherwise sell successfully under these contract vehicles. Our failure to compete effectively in this procurement environment could harm our operating results. Covenants in our credit facility may restrict our financial and operating flexibility. We maintain a credit agreement with a syndicate of lenders led by Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent. The credit agreement provides for a revolving credit facility with up to $350.0 million in loan commitments. The maturity date for the credit agreement is April 30, 2012. The terms of the credit agreement permit prepayment and termination at any time, subject to certain conditions. On December 18, 2009, we 20 Table of Contents amended the terms and conditions of the credit agreement by (among other things) (i) increasing the applicable rate applied to ManTech’s outstanding base rate loans, letters of credit and Eurodollar rate loans under the credit agreement, (ii) permitting ManTech and its subsidiaries to incur additional unsecured indebtedness in accordance with the covenants of the credit agreement, as amended, (iii) imposing a consolidated leverage ratio requirement on ManTech’s ability to acquire additional companies rather than an annual $200.0 million limitation, (iv) increasing ManTech’s capacity to repurchase its capital stock pursuant to a repurchase plan in accordance with the covenants of the credit agreement, as amended and (v) amending certain other affirmative and restrictive covenants. The terms of our credit facility also contain certain covenants that limit our ability to create liens, merge or consolidate, dispose of assets, incur indebtedness and guarantees, repurchase or redeem capital stock and indebtedness, make certain investments or acquisitions, enter into certain transactions with affiliates or change the nature of our business. The credit agreement also contains financial maintenance covenants establishing a maximum total leverage ratio and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we will be limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to take advantage of new business opportunities. In addition, our ability to satisfy the financial ratios required by our credit facility can be affected by events beyond our control and we cannot assure you that we will meet these ratios. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. If our lenders refuse to provide waivers of our credit facility’s restrictive covenants and/or financial ratios, then we may be in default under our credit facility, and we may be prohibited from undertaking actions that are necessary or desirable to maintain and expand our business. Default under our credit facility could allow the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. We have pledged substantially all of our assets to secure the debt under our credit facility. If the lenders declare amounts outstanding under the credit facility to be due, the lenders could proceed against those assets. Any event of default, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business if the creditors determine to exercise their rights. Although the terms of our credit agreement contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of important exceptions, and indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If we and our subsidiaries incur significant additional indebtedness, the related risks that we face could intensify. Moreover, the terms of future debt may impose requirements or restrictions that further affect our financial and operating flexibility, restrict our ability to pay dividends on our common stock or subject us to other events of default. We face aggressive competition that can impact our ability to obtain contracts and therefore affect our future revenues and growth prospects. We operate in highly competitive markets and generally encounter intense competition to win contracts. We compete with larger companies that have greater name recognition, financial resources and larger technical staffs. We also compete with smaller, more specialized companies that are able to concentrate their resources on particular areas. To remain competitive, we must provide superior service and performance on a cost-effective basis to our customers. Our competitors may be able to provide our customers with different or greater capabilities or better contract terms than we can provide, including technical qualifications, past contract experience, geographic presence, price and the availability of qualified professional personnel. In addition, our competitors may consolidate or establish teaming or other relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to address customers’ needs. Our employees or subcontractors may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, which could cause us to lose customers or affect our ability to contract with the federal government. Because we are a government contractor, should an employee or subcontractor fraud or other misconduct occur, such occurrences could have an adverse impact on our business and reputation. Misconduct by employees, subcontractors or joint venture partners could include intentional failures to comply with federal laws including: 21 Table of Contents federal government procurement regulations; proper handling of sensitive or classified information; compliance with the terms of our contracts that we receive; falsifying time records; or failures to disclose unauthorized or unsuccessful activities to us. These actions could lead to civil, criminal and/or administrative penalties (including fines, imprisonment, suspension and/or debarment from performing federal government contracts) and harm our reputation. The precautions we take to prevent and detect such activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses. Such misconduct by employees, subcontractors or joint venture partners could result in serious civil or criminal penalties, sanctions or harm to our reputation, which could cause us to lose contracts or cause a reduction in revenue. We may be liable for systems and service failures. We create, implement and maintain information technology and technical services solutions that are often critical to our customers’ operations, including those of federal, state and local governments. We have experienced and may in the future experience some systems and service failures, schedule or delivery delays and other problems in connection with our work. If our solutions, services, products or other applications have significant defects or errors, are subject to delivery delays or fail to meet our customers’ expectations, we may: • Lose revenues due to adverse customer reaction; • Be required to provide additional services to a customer at no charge; • Receive negative publicity that could damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to attract or retain customers; and • Suffer claims for substantial damages against us. In addition to any costs resulting from product warranties, contract performance or required corrective action, these failures may result in increased costs or loss of revenues if they result in customers postponing subsequently scheduled work, canceling contracts or failing to renew contracts. While many of our contracts with the federal government limit our liability for damages that may arise from negligence in rendering services to our customers, we cannot be sure that these contractual provisions will protect us from liability for damages if we are sued. Furthermore, our errors and omissions and product liability insurance coverage may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims. In addition, the insurer may disclaim coverage as to some types of future claims. The successful assertion of any large claim against us could seriously harm our business. Even if unsuccessful, these claims could result in significant legal and other costs that may be a distraction to our management and/or may harm our reputation. If our subcontractors or joint venture partners fail to perform their contractual obligations, our performance and reputation as a prime contractor and our ability to obtain future business could suffer. As a prime contractor, we often rely significantly upon other companies as subcontractors to perform work we are obligated to perform for our customers. If one or more of our subcontractors fail to perform satisfactorily the agreed-upon services on a timely basis, or violate government contracting policies, laws or regulations, our ability to perform our obligations or meet our customers’ expectations as a prime contractor may be compromised. In some cases, we have limited involvement in the work performed by the subcontractors but are nevertheless responsible for the work performed. In extreme cases, performance or other deficiencies on the part of our subcontractors could result in a customer terminating our contract for default. A default termination could expose us to a liability for the agency’s costs of reprocurement, damage our reputation and hurt our ability to compete for future contracts and task orders. Additionally, we often enter into joint ventures so that we can jointly bid and perform on a particular project. The success of these and other joint ventures depends, in large part, on the satisfactory performance of the contractual obligations by our joint venture partners. If our partners do not meet their obligations, the joint 22 Table of Contents ventures may be unable to adequately perform and deliver their contracted services. Under these circumstances, we may be required to make additional investments and provide additional services to ensure the adequate performance and delivery of the contracted services. These additional obligations could result in reduced profits or, in some cases, significant losses for us with respect to the joint venture, which could also affect our reputation in the industries we serve. Security breaches in classified government systems could adversely affect our business. Many of the programs we support and systems we develop, install and maintain involve managing and protecting information involved in intelligence, national security and other classified government functions. While we have programs designed to comply with relevant security laws, regulations and restrictions, a security breach in one of these systems could cause serious harm to our business, damage our reputation and prevent us from being eligible for further work on critical classified systems for federal government customers. Losses that we could incur from such a security breach could exceed the policy limits that we have for errors and omissions and product liability insurance coverage. Damage to our reputation or limitations on our eligibility for additional work resulting from a security breach in one of the systems we develop, install and maintain could materially reduce our revenue. Our business depends upon obtaining and maintaining required security clearances. Many of our federal government contracts require our employees to maintain various levels of security clearances and we are required to maintain certain facility security clearances complying with the Department of Defense and Intelligence Community requirements. Obtaining and maintaining security clearances for employees involves a lengthy process and it is difficult to identify, recruit and retain employees who already hold security clearances. If our employees are unable to obtain or retain security clearances or if our employees who hold security clearances terminate employment with us, the customer whose work requires cleared employees could terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. In addition, we expect that many of the contracts on which we will bid will require us to demonstrate our ability to obtain facility security clearances and perform work with employees who hold specified types of security clearances. To the extent we are not able to obtain facility security clearances or engage employees with the required security clearances for a particular contract, we may not be able to bid on or win new contracts, or effectively re-bid on expiring contracts. Risks Related to Our Stock Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate. Our quarterly revenues and operating results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. For these reasons, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may be of limited significance in some cases, and as such, you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. While our financial results may be negatively affected by any of the risk factors identified in this section of our Form 10-K, a number of factors could cause our revenues, cash flows and operating results to vary from quarter-to-quarter, including: • Timing of award or performance incentive fee notices; • Fluctuations in revenues earned on fixed-price contracts and contracts with a performance-based fee structure; • Commencement, completion or termination of contracts during any particular quarter; • Reallocation of funds to customers due to priority; • Timing of significant bid and proposal costs; • Variable purchasing patterns under government contracts, BPAs and ID/IQ contracts; • Seasonal or quarterly fluctuations in our workdays and staff utilization rates; 23 Table of Contents • Strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs and joint ventures; • Changes in Presidential administrations and senior federal government officials that affect the timing of technology procurement; • Changes in federal government policy or budgetary measures that adversely affect government contracts in general; and • Increased purchase requests from customers for equipment and materials in connection with the federal government’s fiscal year end that may affect our quarter operating results. Because a relatively large amount of our expenses are fixed, cash flows from our operations may vary significantly as a result of changes in the volume of services provided under existing contracts and the number of contracts that are commenced, completed or terminated during any quarter. We incur significant operating expenses during the start-up and early stages of large contracts and typically we do not receive corresponding payments in that same quarter. We may also incur significant or unanticipated expenses when a contract expires, terminates or is not renewed. Mr. Pedersen, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, effectively controls our Company, and his interests may not be aligned with those of other stockholders. As of December 31, 2009, Mr. Pedersen owned approximately 37.8% of our total outstanding shares of common stock. Holders of our Class B common stock are entitled to ten votes per share, while holders of our Class A common stock are entitled to only one vote per share. Mr. Pedersen beneficially owned 13,605,345 shares of Class B common stock as of December 31, 2009, thus he owned or controlled approximately 85.9% of the combined voting power of our stock as of December 31, 2009. Accordingly, Mr. Pedersen controls the vote on all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. As long as Mr. Pedersen beneficially owns a majority of the combined voting power of our common stock, he will have the ability, without the consent of our public stockholders, to elect all members of our Board of Directors and to control our management and affairs. Mr. Pedersen’s voting control may have the effect of preventing or discouraging transactions involving an actual or a potential change of control of the Company, regardless of whether a premium is offered over then-current market prices. Mr. Pedersen will be able to cause a change of control of the Company. Mr. Pedersen’s voting control could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock if investors perceive disadvantages in owning stock in a company with such concentrated ownership. Mr. Pedersen could also cause a registration statement to be filed and to become effective under the Securities Act of 1933, thereby permitting him to freely sell or transfer the shares of common stock that he owns, which could have an impact on the trading price of our stock. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit potential acquisition bids that you and other stockholders may consider favorable, and the market price of our Class A common stock my be lower as a result. There are provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws that make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or attempt to acquire, control of our Company, even if a change of control were considered favorable by you and other stockholders. Among the provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect, are provisions relating to the following: • The high vote nature of our Class B common stock; • The ability of the Board of Directors to issue preferred stock; • Stockholders cannot take action by written consent; and • Advance notice requirements for director nominations or other proposals by our stockholders. 24 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved SEC Staff Comments We have not received any written comments from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act that remain unresolved. 