D. RISK FACTORS Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before investing in our ordinary shares. Our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected due to any of the following risks. In that case, the value of our ordinary shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating To Our Business We have had a limited operating history in the network processor industry and our future financial results are difficult to predict. Our future success will be subject to the risks we will encounter in the network processor industry. We have a limited operating history in the industry, with our first product sales in the second quarter of 2002 and total sales through December 31, 2007 of approximately $41 million. We have incurred operating losses in each of the five last fiscal years. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate the prospects of our business. Moreover, the network processor industry is constantly evolving and is subject to technological and competitive forces beyond our control. Our ability to design and market products to meet customer demand and the revenue and income potential of our products and business are unproven. As an early stage company in the developing network processor industry, we face numerous risks and uncertainties. Some of these risks relate to our ability to: — expand and enhance our product offerings; — increase our revenues; 7 — diversify our sources of revenue; — respond to technological changes; and — respond to competitive market conditions. If we fail to address these risks and uncertainties, our results of operations will be adversely affected. We are dependent on the networking equipment market for our growth, and if it does not grow, then we will not be able to expand our business. Although there are many companies operating in the networking equipment market, a significant portion of the market is controlled by a limited number of companies. The growth of our network processor business depends in part on increased acceptance and use of networking equipment that is developed and manufactured by companies with significant market share. We depend on the ability of our target customers, specifically those with a significant share of the networking equipment market, to develop new products and enhance existing products for the networking equipment market that incorporate our products and to introduce and promote their products successfully. The market for networking equipment depends in part upon the market’s acceptance of packet-based converged telecom networks, in particular carrier Ethernet networks, as well as 10 Gigabit and greater Ethernet technologies that enable the forwarding of data at a high speed. Ultimately, the development rate of these technologies may be slower than we anticipate. If the use of such networking equipment does not grow as we anticipate, if we are unsuccessful in maintaining our relationships with our current customers, specifically those with a significant share of the networking equipment market, and creating relationships with other target customers with significant market share, if our target customers do not incorporate our products into theirs, or if the products of our target customers that incorporate our network processors are not commercially successful, our growth will be impeded. We depend on a very limited number of key customers. If we are unable to maintain our relationship with these customers, our future revenues and growth will be materially adversely affected. Two major tier-1 vendors of carrier Ethernet switches and routers, or CESRs, are currently designing several of their CESR platforms based on EZchip network processors. Juniper Networks, currently our largest customer, has already entered production with NP-2 based products and is expected to continue to launch additional NP-2 and NP-3 based products during 2008. Juniper Networks accounted for approximately 42% of our 2007 revenues and we expect Juniper Networks to account for more than 50% of our revenues in 2008. The second major tier-1 vendor of CESRs has selected a customized version of NP-3 for several of its CESR product lines. This version of NP-3 is in its final stages of development and we expect it to move into production in the second half of 2008. We expect that these two CESR vendors will, together, account for a substantial majority of our revenues in 2008. Our future revenues and growth will depend in large part on our relationship with these two CESR vendors in 2008 and beyond. If one of these vendors decides not to incorporate our products into its CESR products or purchases significantly lower quantities than expected, or if the products that incorporate our network processors are not commercially successful, our future revenues and the growth of our business will be materially adversely affected. We may experience difficulties or delays in the introduction of our new family of network processors and other new and enhanced products. We recently announced a new family of network processors targeting Ethernet Access applications. We expect several models of the network processors, named NPA, to be offered in 2008. The NPA product family addresses the transition of carrier access from ATM/TDM based networks to Ethernet packet-based networks and the provisioning of triple-play services that command increased bandwidth and service guarantees to residential and business users. We may not be successful in developing, introducing and marketing these new offerings or in addressing all or any portion of the potential market for these offerings. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these offerings. Furthermore, our new offerings may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. If we do not timely develop and introduce these offerings or respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or customer requirements, the growth of our business may be adversely affected. 8 In addition, the development of our NP-3, NP-4 and NPA network processors is a complex and uncertain process. We are engaged in the development of very advanced technologies. We may experience design, manufacturing, marketing and other difficulties that could delay the development or marketing of these network processors. The difficulties could result in reduced sales, loss of existing and potential customers, unexpected expenses or delays in the launch of these network processors, all which may adversely affect our results of operations. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are much larger than us, and if we are unable to compete effectively we could lose our market share and revenues. The market for network processors is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to rapid technological change. We believe that competition in this market will become more intense in the future and may cause price reductions, reduce gross margins and result in loss of market share, any one of which could significantly reduce our future revenue and increase our losses. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, product development and marketing resources, greater name recognition and significantly larger customer bases than we do. In addition, we face competition from current and prospective customers who may choose to develop their own network processors. Additionally, many of our competitors also have well-established relationships with our prospective customers and suppliers and prospective customers may have competitive reasons to prefer our competitors. As a result of these factors, many of our competitors, either alone or with other companies, have significant influence in our target markets that could outweigh our technological advantage. Our products may have defects, which could damage our reputation, decrease market acceptance of our products, cause us to lose customers and revenue, increase production costs and result in liability. Highly complex products such as network processors may contain hardware or software defects or bugs. Often, these defects and bugs are not detected until after the products have been shipped. If any of our products contain defects, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation might be damaged significantly and customers might be reluctant to buy our products, which could result in the loss of or failure to attract customers. In addition, these defects could interrupt or delay sales. We may have to invest significant capital and other resources to correct these problems. If any of these problems are not found until after we have commenced commercial production of a new product, we might incur substantial additional development costs. If we fail to provide solutions to the problems, such as software patches, we could also incur product recall, repair or replacement costs. These problems might also result in claims against us by our customers or others. In addition, these problems might divert technical and other resources from other development efforts. Moreover, we would likely lose, or experience a delay in, market acceptance of the affected product or products, and we could lose credibility with our current and prospective customers. This is particularly significant as we are relatively a new entrant to a market dominated by large, well-established companies. We may have to redesign our products to meet rapidly evolving industry standards and customer specifications, which could delay our production and increase our operating costs. We operate in a market characterized by rapidly evolving industry standards, product obsolescence, and new manufacturing and design technologies. Many of the standards and protocols for our products are based on high speed networking technologies that have not been widely adopted or ratified by one of the standard setting bodies in our customers’ industry. Our target customers, network equipment manufacturers, are likely to have varying requirements and may delay or alter their design demands during this standard-setting process. In response, we may have to redesign our products to suit these changing demands, which would likely delay the production of our future products and increase operating costs. 9 Because our products have lengthy design and development cycles, we could experience delays in generating revenues or cancellation of customer contracts. We may never generate significant revenues from our newly developed products after incurring significant design and development expenditures. A customer may decide to cancel or change its product plans, which could cause us to generate no revenue from that customer and adversely affect our results of operations. A delay or cancellation of a customer’s plans could significantly adversely affect our financial results. Even after winning a design contract, a customer may not begin volume production of our equipment for a period of up to two years, if at all. Due to this lengthy design and development cycle, a significant period may elapse from the time we begin incurring expenses until the time we generate revenue from our products. We have no assurances that our customers will ultimately market and sell their equipment incorporating our network processors, or that such efforts by our customers will be successful. The loss of personnel could affect our ability to design and market our products. To succeed, we must retain and hire technical personnel highly skilled in the design and test of functions used to develop Ethernet network processors and related software. The competition for such employees is intense. We, along with our competitors, customers and other companies in the communications industry, face intense competition for those employees from competitors and from an increasing number of emerging startup companies with potentially lucrative employee ownership arrangements. Recruiting, hiring and retaining key personnel can also result in significant monetary costs. If we are unable to adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and other measures, our competitors could use our proprietary information and we could lose our competitive advantage. To compete effectively, we must protect our proprietary information. We rely on and intend to rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. Our failure to adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property from use by our competitors could jeopardize our competitive advantage, and result in a loss of customers. We have a number of issued patents, however, the patents that have been issued may not provide any meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us, as they may not be of sufficient scope or strength, or may not be issued in all countries where our products can be sold. In addition, our competitors may be able to design around our patents. Our products employ technologies that may infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties, which may expose us to litigation and prevent us from selling our products. Vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions characterize the semiconductor industry. This often results in expensive and lengthy litigation. We, as well as our customers or suppliers, may be accused of infringing on patents or other intellectual property rights owned by third parties. An adverse result in any litigation could force us to pay substantial damages, stop designing or manufacturing, using and selling the infringing products, spend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, discontinue using certain processes or obtain licenses to use the infringing technology. In addition, we may not be able to develop non-infringing technology, nor might we be able to find appropriate licenses on reasonably satisfactory terms. Because the processes used to manufacture our products are complex, customized to our specifications and can only be performed by a limited number of manufacturing facilities, we may experience delays in production and increased costs. The manufacture of processors is a highly complex and technically demanding process. Defects in design or problems associated with transitions to newer manufacturing processes or new manufacturers can result in unacceptable manufacturing yields and performance. These problems are frequently difficult to detect in the early stages of the production process and can be time-consuming and expensive to correct once detected. As a result, defects, performance problems with our products or poor manufacturing yields could adversely affect our business and operating results. 10 If third-party manufacturers and other suppliers terminate our arrangement with them, or amend them in a manner detrimental to us, we may experience delays in production and our business maybe adversely affected. The fabrication of our network processors is outsourced to third-party manufacturers and subcontractors. There are significant risks associated with our reliance on third-party manufacturers. Most significantly, if our manufacturing suppliers are unable or unwilling to provide us with adequate manufacturing capacity, we would have to identify and qualify one or more substitute suppliers for our products. Our manufacturers may experience unanticipated events that could inhibit their abilities to provide us with adequate manufacturing capacity on a timely basis, or at all. Historically, there have been periods in which there has been a worldwide shortage of manufacturer capacity for the production of high-performance processors such as ours. Introducing new products or transferring existing products to a new third party manufacturer would require significant development time to adapt our designs to their manufacturing processes and could cause product shipment delays. In addition, the costs associated with manufacturing our products may increase if we are required to use a new third party manufacturer. If we fail to satisfy our manufacturing requirements, our business would be materially harmed. We have entered into an agreement with a sole supplier for the manufacture of each existing model of our network processors, and we expect to use a sole supplier for our next generation of network processors as well. Our NP-1, NP-1c and NP-3 network processors are manufactured by IBM. Our NP-2 network processor is manufactured by Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., or TSMC, for a third party that coordinates and assumes responsibility for various aspects of the manufacturing process and also arranges for the manufacture. We also expect the NPA to be manufactured by TSMC, through a third party that will manage the supply chain for us. We recently entered into a partnership with Marvell Technology Group Ltd. to jointly develop, market and sell next generation network processor unit solutions, which will also be manufactured by TSMC. IBM, TSMC or any future sole supplier for our current and future products may reduce or delay shipment if its ability to manufacture network processors is constrained. If a sole supplier of our network processors, a third party that arranges for their manufacture, or any other subcontractor fails to deliver network processors or necessary components or services on time or at all, our business could be severely harmed. In addition, if the current manufacturing arrangement between our third party subcontractor and TSMC is terminated or amended in a manner detrimental to us, it could adversely affect our business while we try to make alternative arrangements with substitute suppliers. These and other risks associated with our reliance on a third-party manufacturer could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a history of operating losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. If internally generated funds are insufficient and we are unable to procure funding on favorable terms, we would not be able to develop and expand our business, which could negatively affect our revenues. We expect that significant funding will be required in order to continue to develop our products and to expand our business. Given the state of development of our business and the present economic environment, we believe that we have sufficient funding resources to finance our operations for at least 12 months. The capital markets have experienced severe downturns over the last decade, especially relating to technology companies, and access to capital has at times been both difficult and expensive. We have incurred operating losses in each of the last five fiscal years and we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitable operations in the future. If internally generated funds are insufficient and we do not obtain enough funding to support our future development when needed, our business will suffer. Even if we are successful in obtaining funding through the capital markets or otherwise, such funding may not be on terms favorable to us. Risks Relating to Our Ordinary Shares Our share price has been highly volatile and may continue to be volatile and decline. The trading price of our shares has fluctuated widely in the past, including in recent months and weeks, and may continue to do so in the future as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many technology companies, particularly telecommunication and Internet-related companies, and have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our shares. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Securities class action litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. 11 Your ownership interest in LanOptics may be diluted as a result of anticipated further purchases of EZchip shares or as a result of additional financings. We currently own approximately 99% of the outstanding shares of EZchip and approximately 89% of EZchip on a fully diluted basis, taking into account EZchip options and shares held by current and former employees. We intend to continue to purchase EZchip shares in order to gain full ownership of EZchip. We will attempt to effect all such purchases at an exchange ratio that reflects the relative values of LanOptics and EZchip. If we are required to pay a purchase price that is greater than the relative value of EZchip, the ownership interests of LanOptics existing shareholders will be diluted. In addition, we may seek to raise funds from time to time in public or private issuances of equity, and such financings may take place in the near future or over the longer term. Any such financing may dilute the relative holdings of current LanOptics shareholders. Future exercises of our options and warrants may result in substantial dilution and future sales of these ordinary shares and sales by our principal shareholders may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. Future exercises of our options and warrants may result in substantial dilution and future sales of these ordinary shares and sales by our principal shareholders may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our ordinary shares, or the availability of our ordinary shares for future sale, will have on the market price of our ordinary shares. Sales of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public marketplace by us or our shareholders, including our principal shareholders whose shares were recently registered for resale with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and may make it more difficult for investors to sell ordinary shares at a time and price which such investors deem appropriate. We have never paid cash dividends and have no intention to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our shares and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain earnings, if any, for use in our business, in particular to fund our research and development, which are important to capitalize on technological changes and develop new products and applications. Any future dividend distributions are subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on various factors, including our operating results, future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, tax implications of dividend distributions on our income, future prospects and any other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. The distribution of dividends also may be limited by Israeli law, which permits the distribution of dividends only out of retained earnings or otherwise upon the permission of the court. You should not rely on an investment in our company if you require dividend income from your investment. Our ordinary shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are traded primarily on the NASDAQ Global Market and also on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets is made in different currencies (U.S. dollars on the NASDAQ Global Market, and New Israeli Shekels, or NIS, on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). Consequently, the trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets often differ. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. We may fail to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results and the market price of our ordinary shares. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404, which started in connection with our 2006 Annual Report on Form 20-F, have resulted in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of resources. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires (i) management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and (ii) a statement by management that its independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting, in connection with the filing of the Annual Report on Form 20-F for each fiscal year. We have documented and tested our internal control systems and procedures and have made improvements in order for us to comply with the requirements of Section 404. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ordinary shares. 12 Risks Relating To Our Location In Israel Political, economic and military instability in Israel may disrupt our operations and negatively affect our sales. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, and our principal executive offices and principal research and development facilities are located in Israel. Political, economic and security conditions in Israel directly influence us. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, Israel and its Arab neighbors have engaged in a number of armed conflicts. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Major hostilities between Israel and its neighbors may hinder Israel’s international trade and lead to economic downturn. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business. There has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity in Israel, which began in September 2000 and which has continued with varying levels of severity through 2007. The future effect of this deterioration and violence on the Israeli economy and our operations is unclear. Recently, there was an escalation in violence among Israel, Hamas, the Palestinian Authority and other groups, as well as extensive hostilities along Israel’s northern border with Lebanon in the summer of 2006, and extensive hostilities along Israel’s border with the Gaza Strip since June 2007 when the Hamas effectively took control of the Gaza Strip, which have intensified since February 2008. Additionally, some of our key employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces and are subject to being called for active military duty at any time in the event of a national emergency. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our key employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations would harm our business. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may affect ouroperating results. A significant portion of the cost of our Israeli operations, mainly personnel costs, is incurred in NIS. Therefore, our NIS related costs, as expressed in U.S. dollars, are influenced by the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the NIS. During 2007, the NIS appreciated against the U.S. dollar, which resulted in a significant increase in the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in Israel. Such trend has continued during the first three months of 2008 with further appreciation of the NIS against the U.S. dollar. NIS linked balance sheet items may create foreign exchange gains or losses, depending upon the relative dollar values of the NIS at the beginning and end of the reporting period, affecting our net income and earnings per share. Although we may use hedging techniques we cannot completely eliminate the effects of currency fluctuations. Thus, exchange rate fluctuations resulting in a devaluation of the U.S. dollar compared to the NIS could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and share price. Tax benefits that are available to us require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our future tax expenses. Our facilities in Israel have been granted Approved Enterprise status under the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, commonly referred to as the Investment Law. The Investment Law provides that capital investments in a production facility (or other eligible assets) may be designated as an Approved Enterprise. Until recently, the designation required advance approval from the Investment Center of the Israel Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor. For these programs to be eligible for tax benefits, we must meet certain conditions, relating principally to adherence to the approved programs and to periodic reporting obligations. We believe that we are currently in compliance with these requirements. However, if we fail to meet these requirements, we would be subject to corporate tax in Israel at the regular statutory rate. We could also be required to refund tax benefits, with interest and adjustments for inflation based on the Israeli consumer price index. 13 On April 1, 2005 an amendment to the Investment Law came into effect, which revised the criteria for investments qualified to receive tax benefits. An eligible investment program under the amendment will qualify for benefits as a Privileged Enterprise (rather than the previous terminology of Approved Enterprise). Among other things, the amendment provides tax benefits to both local and foreign investors and simplifies the approval process. The amendment does not apply to investment programs approved prior to December 31, 2004 and applies to new investment programs only. Under the amendment, if we were to pay a dividend out of the tax-exempt income generated by a Privileged Enterprise under the provisions of the amended Investment Law during the tax exemption period, a portion of the income that is equivalent to the amount distributed as dividends will be subject to corporate tax, and we may be required to record deferred tax liability with respect to such tax-exempt income. As of December 31, 2007, we did not generate income under the provisions of the amended Investment Law. The government grants we have received for research and development expenditures limit our ability to transfer technologies outside of Israel and require us to satisfy specified conditions. If we fail to satisfy these conditions, we may be required to refund grants previously received together with interest and penalties, and may be subject to criminal charges. Since April 2006, our research and development efforts have been financed, in part, through grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, or OCS. We therefore must comply with the requirements of the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development, 1984 and related regulations, or the Research Law. In recent years, the Government of Israel has accelerated the rate of repayment of OCS grants and may further accelerate them in the future. In addition, if we fail to comply with any of the requirements imposed by the OCS, such as change of control notices and annual reporting requirements, we may be required to refund any grants previously received together with interest and penalties, and a person who transferred OCS-funded technology may be subject to criminal charges and up to three years imprisonment. Technology developed by OCS funding may not be transferred and any transfer of technology generally requires the approval of an OCS committee. A transfer, for the purpose of OCS rules, means an actual sale of the technology, any exclusive license to develop, market, and manufacture products resulting from the technology or any other transaction which in essence constitutes a transfer of the technology and does not include the worldwide sale of products that are based on technology developed with OCS funding. We may not receive the required approvals should we wish to transfer this technology in the future. These restrictions may impair our ability to sell our technology assets, and the restrictions will continue to apply even after we have repaid the full amount of royalties payable for the grants. In addition, the restrictions may impair our ability to consummate a merger or similar transaction in which the surviving entity is not an Israeli company. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us or our officers and directors, to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel or serve process on substantially all of our officers and directors. We are organized under the laws of the State of Israel. Substantially all of our executive officers and directors and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to collect a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of these persons, or to effect service of process upon these persons in the United States. Furthermore, it may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at a general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable in shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company has a duty of fairness toward the company. The Israeli Companies Law also provides that a breach of the duty of fairness will be governed by the laws governing breach of contract; however, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. There is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. 14 Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. Some of the provisions of Israeli law could: — discourage potential acquisition proposals; — delay or prevent a change in control; and — limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our ordinary shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers and acquisitions of shares through tender offers, requires approvals for transactions involving significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israel tax law treats stock-for-stock acquisitions between an Israeli company and a foreign company less favorably than does U.S. tax law. For example, Israeli tax law may subject a shareholder who exchanges his ordinary shares for shares in a foreign corporation to immediate taxation or to taxation before his investment in the foreign corporation becomes liquid. These provisions may adversely affect the price of our shares. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of The NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of such requirements, must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or on its website each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. As a foreign private issuer listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, we may follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, composition of the board of directors, director nomination procedure, compensation of officers, and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, we may follow our home country law, instead of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, which require that we obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. 