Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are some of the risks that we face in our business. The list of risk factors is not exhaustive. There can be no assurance that we have correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting our business or that are publicly available and other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may adversely impact us. Should any risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. The loss of or a significant reduction in purchases of our products by our major customers could adversely affect our business. The Mechanical Equipment segment reported sales to four customers that accounted for a total of 65% of consolidated sales in 2006. Any reduction in business from these customers can adversely affect our business. Reduction in business could be caused by any number of reasons including the customers themselves losing their market share, making design changes, obtaining new sources and other competition. 5 Table of Contents A substantial portion of our operations are linked to domestic automotive production and a decrease in consumer demand, tighter governmental regulations or increased costs could negatively impact our operations A substantial portion of our operations are cyclical because they are directly related to domestic automotive production which is itself cyclical and dependent on general economic conditions and other factors. There can be no assurance that positive trends in our sales will to the automotive industry will continue. A decrease in consumer demand for the models that generate the most sales for us, our failure to obtain sales order for new or redesigned models, pricing pressure from our customers or competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business. Disruption in the availability of fuel or governmental regulations could impact vehicle mix and volume which could also adversely affect the demand for our existing products. The inability to obtain raw materials, component parts, and/or finished goods in a timely and cost-effective manner from suppliers would adversely affect our ability to manufacture and market our products. We purchase raw materials and component parts from suppliers to be used in the manufacturing of our products. In addition, we purchase certain finished goods from suppliers. Changes in our relationships with suppliers or increases in the costs of purchased raw materials, component parts or finished goods could result in manufacturing interruptions, delays, inefficiencies or our inability to market products. In addition, our profit margins would decrease if prices of purchased raw materials, component parts, or finished goods increase and we are unable to pass on those increases to our customers. We operate in highly competitive markets. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. The intensity of this competition, which is expected to continue, can result in price discounting and margin pressures throughout the industry and adversely affect our ability to increase or maintain prices for our products. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage in responding to substantial industry changes, such as changes in governmental regulations that require major additional capital expenditures. In addition, certain of our competitors may have lower overall labor costs. Failure to keep pace with technological developments may adversely affect our operations. We are engaged in an industry which will be affected by future technological developments. The introduction of products or processes utilizing new technologies could render our existing products or processes obsolete or unmarketable. Our success will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce on a timely and cost-effective basis new products, processes and applications that keep pace with technological developments and address increasingly sophisticated customer requirements. We may not be successful in identifying, developing and marketing new products, applications and processes and product or process enhancements. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of product or process enhancements or new products, applications or processes. Our products, applications or processes may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if we were to incur delays in developing new products, applications or processes or product or process enhancements or if we were to not gain market acceptance. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability, warranty, recall claims or other lawsuits or claims that may be brought against us. We are exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the normal course of business in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. Accordingly, we could experience material warranty or product liability costs in the future and incur significant costs to defend against these claims. We currently carry insurance and maintain allowances for product liability claims. However, we cannot be sure that our insurance coverage will be adequate if such claims do arise, and any liability not covered by insurance could have a material adverse impact on our business. A future claim could involve the imposition of punitive damages, the award of which, pursuant to state laws, may not be covered by insurance. In addition, warranty claims are not covered by our insurance. Any product liability or warranty issues may adversely impact our reputation as a manufacturer of high quality, safe products and may have a material adverse effect on our business. The costs associated with complying with environmental and safety regulations could lower our margins. We, like other manufacturers, continue to face heavy governmental regulation of our products, especially in the areas of environment and employee health and safety. See “Business-Environmental Compliance”. Complying with environmental and safety requirements has added and will continue to add to the cost of our products, and increases the capital-intensive nature of our business. While we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with these laws and regulations, we cannot assure you 6 Table of Contents that we will not be adversely impacted by costs, liabilities or claims with respect to our operations under existing laws or those that may be adopted. These requirements are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. Therefore, we could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions as a results of violations, or liabilities under, environmental laws and safety regulations. We are subject to a number of restrictive debt covenants. Our credit facility and other debt instruments contain certain restrictive debt covenants that may hinder our ability to pursue attractive business opportunities. Our ability to meet these restrictive covenants may be affected by factors outside our control. Failure to meet one or more of these restrictive covenants may result in an event of default. Upon an event of default, our lender(s) may be entitled to declare all amounts outstanding as due and payable. EXX’s principal shareholder has voting control over the Company. David A. Segal, EXX’s Chief Executive Officer and principal shareholder, owns approximately 44% and 55% of the outstanding shares of our Class A and Class B common stock. As a result, he has effective voting control over the Company, including the election of directors, and is able to effectively prevent an affirmative vote which would be necessary for a merger, sale of assets or similar transaction, irrespective of whether other shareholders believe such a transaction to be in their best interests. The Company’s Articles of Incorporation and By-laws do not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors. Future sales of common stock could affect the price of common stock. No prediction can be made as to effect, if any that future sales of shares or the availability of shares for sale will have on the market price of the common stock prevailing from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales might occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of the common stock. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require substantial financial and management resources. We will be required to comply with the requirements of Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2007. Section 404 requires us to evaluate and report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting, however, we are not required to have our independent accountants report on this evaluation or certify our compliance with the rules related to our system of internal controls until the year ending December 31, 2008. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to various sanctions. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports could harm our business. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 7 Table of Contents 