ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business in general is subject to certain risks and uncertainties including the following: Markets for Our Products and Competition · Our fashion apparel sales are seasonal, and historically sales from July through December, which comprise our first and second fiscal quarters, are weaker than sales from January through June, which comprise our third and fourth fiscal quarters. · We must continue to successfully anticipate fashion trends, design apparel that is accepted by consumers as fashionable and stylish and maintain an adequate product mix thereof in order to continue to have market acceptance. If we fail in these endeavors, our sales will likely decline, thereby adversely affecting our operating results. · The market for golf apparel is extremely competitive, and price competition or industry consolidation could weaken our competitive position. Some of our competitors are significantly larger and more diversified than we are and have substantially greater financial resources available for developing, sourcing and marketing their products in the markets within which we operate. In order to maintain our competitive position, we must effectively advertise and communicate within the marketplace and successfully penetrate our chosen distribution channels. We may not be able to maintain or increase our market share in the distribution channels in which we operate, and we may also face increased competition from new or existing competitors. As a result, we may experience lower sales or greater operating costs, which would have an adverse effect on our margins and the results of our operations. · We maintain a significant level of finished goods inventories to support our fashion apparel sales volume and our limited corporate apparel program. Disposal of excess prior seasons’ fashion apparel inventories at reduced margins is an inherent characteristic within the golf apparel industry, but a significant amount of sales at the lower margins dictated by the disposition of excess inventories may impair our financial condition and the results of our operations. Write-downs with regard to obsolete fashion apparel inventories may also adversely affect our financial condition. License Agreement · A substantial portion of our net sales are governed by the license agreement we maintain with Callaway. While we have historically exceeded the minimum sales requirements of the license agreement with regard to Ben Hogan® fashion apparel, we expect that sales of Ben Hogan® fashion apparel for calendar year 2008 will be insufficient to meet either the minimum sales or royalty requirements per the license agreement. While we believe that we maintain a satisfactory relationship with Callaway, we have not reached an 10 understanding with Callaway and can currently give no assurance that Callaway will not take the position that the new license agreement is subject to termination, due to our expected inability to meet the minimum sales and royalty requirements for calendar year 2008 with respect to Ben Hogan® fashion apparel. An early termination of the license agreement, with regard to Ben Hogan® fashion apparel, would negatively impact our financial position and results of our operations. · A significant component of our business strategies and a large percentage of our revenues are reliant upon licensed sales of apparel pursuant to our agreement with Callaway. Of our apparel lines, only our SPORT HALEY® women’s fashion apparel line is not a licensed brand. Our significant reliance upon sales of licensed apparel indicates a lack of diversification which could negatively impact our business should our efforts to market and sell Ben Hogan® men’s fashion apparel be unsuccessful. Should our license agreement with Callaway be terminated, or not extended upon its scheduled expiration in December 2013, our business would suffer materially. Reliance Upon Third Parties · We depend on timely delivery of finished garments from our suppliers. The loss of certain suppliers, and/or delays in receiving garments from suppliers caused by various factors, including lost or reduced manufacturing capacity of significant suppliers, labor shortages, timely performance of third parties, transportation difficulties, and others, could adversely affect our ability to make timely delivery of finished garments to our customers. · Our significant reliance on foreign suppliers enhances the risk that revenues might be adversely affected if a foreign shipment were lost or significantly delayed. We maintain insurance for risk of loss including those relating to raw materials inventories shipped between foreign vendors and finished goods inventories shipped from foreign suppliers to our distribution facilities in Denver, Colorado. However, our significant reliance on foreign suppliers heightens the risk that we could be left with inadequate or unsatisfactory recourse should the goods received from the foreign suppliers be nonconforming. · Our significant reliance on foreign suppliers sustains the risk that revenues might be adversely affected by changes in international trade quota systems for apparel or by deterioration in political and international trade relations between the United States of America and the foreign countries where the suppliers are located. · We purchase significant amounts of finished apparel from several separate foreign suppliers. While we believe that we could obtain finished apparel from numerous other suppliers, if we were to lose or terminate the services of any of these significant suppliers, our short-term ability to fulfill customers’ orders on a timely basis could be substantially impaired, thereby negatively affecting our financial position and the results of our operations. · We maintain a close working relationship with a certain foreign person who is responsible for maintaining relationships with and monitoring the performance of certain of our foreign suppliers. While we believe that we could utilize other such persons to perform similar services, if we were to lose or terminate the services of this individual, our short-term ability to fulfill customers’ orders on a timely basis could be substantially impaired, thereby negatively affecting our financial position and the results of our operations. Economy · The demand for our products may decrease if the popularity of golf decreases or if other factors, such as adverse business conditions, a sluggish economy or inclement weather, cause golfers not to patronize golf professional shops. · The increased threats of terrorist activities in the United States, the conflict in Iraq and other international conflicts may adversely affect our sales. Business trends of the golf apparel industry closely follow trends in the travel and leisure sectors of the United States economy. International conflicts and other geopolitical 11 conditions resulting from threats or acts of war or terrorism and responses thereto may continue to affect the travel and leisure sectors that had already been negatively impacted by the general economic downturn experienced during previous years. Our sales could decrease if the USA economy weakens due to these or other factors. · We may experience an increase in the number and magnitude of delinquent or uncollectible customer accounts during periods of economic downturn. · On a limited basis, we advance monies to certain of our independent wholesale sales representatives under agreements whereby the sales representatives reimburse us as they earn monthly sales commissions. Our financial results may be adversely affected should the sales representatives not generate wholesale sales sufficient to justify the amounts advanced to them under the agreements and should they have insufficient financial resources to repay the outstanding balance of monies advanced by us to them. Access to Capital · Our significant reliance on foreign suppliers requires that we maintain satisfactory relationships with a commercial banking institution in order to have adequate access to capital to finance inventory purchases from foreign suppliers via import letters of credit. While we believe that we could obtain access to capital from other sources, if the commercial banking institution were to terminate or not renew the line of credit agreement that we maintain with the institution, or should we have insufficient funds to collateralize the issuances of import letters of credit, our ability to purchase finished goods inventories from foreign suppliers could be substantially impaired, thereby negatively affecting our financial position and the results of our operations and impairing our ability to operate. · We regularly maintain cash balances at a commercial bank in excess of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limit of $250,000. While the financial position and liquidity of the commercial bank has been exceedingly greater than our uninsured cash balances at any point in time, if the financial position and/or liquidity of the bank were to become impaired, our financial position and the results of our operations could be negatively affected to the extent of account balances held at the financial institution in excess of the federally insured limit. · Subsequent to our payment to US Customs and Border Protection of duties and interest thereon with regard to the Prior Disclosure we are planning to voluntarily submit in October 2008, we may need to obtain additional sources of capital to sustain the working capital needs of our operations or our financial position could be negatively affected and our ability to operate may be impaired. Computer Information Systems · Businesses in general are increasingly dependent upon computer information systems. We must continually establish and sustain controls with regard to maintaining the integrity of our technology, information systems and electronic data in order to adequately manage business activities and control costs and expenses. We rely heavily upon our computer information systems to record sales and other transactions and to maintain historic data, all of which is stored on network file servers. While we regularly maintain backup systems for our file servers, if any of our file servers failed during a traumatic event or due to a power surge or other electronic failure, we could lose electronic data that is essential to our business operations. Executive Officers and Key Employees · Because we operate within strict seasonal periods, our business operations are heavily dependent upon our current executive officers and our key employees within various areas of our operations including production and sales management. The loss of any of our executive officers or key employees, or the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel, could prevent us from successfully executing our business strategies, delay 12 the development and introduction of new seasonal apparel collections, damage the image of our brands and/or harm our ability to sell our products. There may be other factors not mentioned above, in the discussion below or included in our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings that may cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements. Neither the Company nor any of its corporate officers or key employees assumes any obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or developments, except as required by applicable securities laws. 