ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business in general is subject to certain risks including the following: Markets for Our Products and Competition · Our fashion apparel sales are seasonal, and historically sales from July through December, which comprise our first and second fiscal quarters, are weaker than sales from January through June, which comprise our third and fourth fiscal quarters. · We must continue to successfully anticipate fashion trends, design apparel that is accepted by consumers as fashionable and stylish and maintain an adequate product mix thereof in order to continue to have market acceptance. · The market for golf apparel is extremely competitive, and price competition or industry consolidation could weaken our competitive position. Some of our competitors are significantly larger and more diversified than we are and have substantially greater financial resources available for developing, sourcing and marketing their products. In order to maintain our competitive position, we must effectively advertise and communicate within the marketplace and successfully penetrate our chosen distribution channels. We may not be able to maintain or increase our market share in the distribution channels in which we operate, and we may also face increased competition from new competitors. As a result, we may experience lower sales or greater operating costs, which would have an adverse effect on our margins and the results of our operations. · We maintain a significant level of finished goods inventories to support our fashion apparel sales volume and our limited corporate apparel program. Disposal of excess prior seasons’ fashion apparel inventories at reduced margins is an inherent characteristic within the golf apparel industry, but a significant amount of sales at the lower margins dictated by the disposition of excess inventories may impair our financial 13 condition and the results of our operations. Write-downs with regard to obsolete fashion apparel inventories could also continue to adversely affect our financial condition. License Agreement · An ever increasing percentage of our net sales are derived from sales related to the license agreement with Callaway to market and distribute Ben Hogan® apparel, and we have consistently exceeded the minimum sales requirements of the license agreement with regard to Ben Hogan® apparel. While we believe that we maintain a satisfactory relationship with Callaway, an early termination of the license agreement could negatively impact our financial position and results of our operations significantly. · The license agreement with Callaway includes minimum royalty payments with regard to sales of Top-Flite® branded apparel. Our Top-Flite® branded apparel has been marketed exclusively to Wal-Mart through Reserve Apparel. In September 2006, Wal-Mart notified Reserve Apparel that they plan to develop their own line of golf apparel rather than continuing to purchase Top-Flite® apparel. Until we establish other markets for Top-Flite® apparel which provide the annual sales amount required by Callaway to satisfy the minimum royalty payments due in accordance with the license agreement, we may not be able to meet the minimum sales requirements and our financial position and the results of our operations may be negatively impacted. Reliance Upon Third Parties · We depend on timely delivery of finished garments from our suppliers. The loss of certain suppliers, and/or delays in receiving garments from suppliers caused by various factors, including lost or reduced manufacturing capacity of significant suppliers, labor shortages, timely performance of third parties, transportation difficulties, and others, could adversely affect our ability to make timely delivery of finished garments to our customers. · Our significant reliance on foreign suppliers enhances the risk that revenues might be adversely affected if a foreign shipment were lost or significantly delayed. We maintain insurance for risk of loss including those relating to raw materials inventories shipped between foreign vendors and finished goods inventories shipped from foreign suppliers to our distribution facilities in Denver, Colorado. However, significant reliance on foreign suppliers heightens the risk that we could be left with inadequate or unsatisfactory recourse should the goods received from the foreign suppliers be nonconforming. · Our significant reliance on foreign suppliers sustains the risk that revenues might be adversely affected by changes in international trade quota systems for apparel or by deterioration in political and international trade relations between the United States of America and the foreign countries where the suppliers are located. · We purchase significant amounts of finished apparel from several separate foreign suppliers. While we believe that we could obtain finished apparel from numerous other suppliers, if we were to lose or terminate the services of any of these significant suppliers, our short-term ability to fulfill customers’ orders on a timely basis could be substantially impaired, thereby negatively affecting our financial position and the results of our operations. · We maintain a close working relationship with a certain foreign person who is responsible for maintaining relationships with and monitoring the performance of certain of our foreign suppliers. While we believe that we could utilize other such persons to perform similar services, if we were to lose or terminate the services of this individual, our short-term ability to fulfill customers’ orders on a timely basis could be substantially impaired, thereby negatively affecting our financial position and the results of our operations. 14 Economy · The demand for our products may decrease if the popularity of golf decreases or if other factors, such as adverse business conditions, a sluggish economy or inclement weather, cause golfers not to patronize golf professional shops. · The increased threats of terrorist activities in the United States, the conflict in Iraq and other international conflicts may have adversely affected our sales. Business trends of the golf apparel industry closely follow trends in the travel and leisure sectors of the United States economy. International conflicts and other geopolitical conditions resulting from threats or acts of war or terrorism and responses thereto may have continued to affect the travel and leisure sectors that had already been negatively impacted by the general economic downturn experienced during previous years. Our sales could decrease if the USA economy weakens due to these or other factors. · We may experience an increase in the number and magnitude of delinquent or uncollectible customer accounts during periods of economic downturn. · On a limited basis, we advance monies to certain of our independent wholesale sales representatives under agreements whereby the sales representatives reimburse us as they earn monthly sales commissions. Our financial results may be adversely affected should the sales representatives not generate wholesale sales sufficient to justify the amounts advanced to them under the agreements. Access to Capital · Our significant reliance on foreign suppliers requires that we maintain satisfactory relationships with a commercial banking institution in order to have adequate access to capital to finance inventory purchases from the foreign suppliers via import letters of credit. While we believe that we could obtain access to capital from other sources, if the commercial banking institution were to terminate or not renew the line of credit agreement that we maintain with the institution, our short-term ability to purchase finished goods inventories from foreign suppliers could be substantially impaired, thereby negatively affecting our financial position and the results of our operations. · We periodically maintain cash balances at a commercial bank in excess of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limit of $100,000. While the financial position and liquidity of the commercial bank has been exceedingly greater than our uninsured cash balances at any point in time, if the financial position and/or liquidity of the bank were to become impaired, our financial position and the results of our operations could be negatively affected. Computer Information Systems · Businesses in general are ever increasingly dependent upon computer information systems. We must continually establish and sustain controls with regard to maintaining the integrity of our technology, information systems and electronic data in order to adequately manage business activities and control costs and expenses. Executive Officers and Key Employees · Because we operate within strict seasonal periods, our business operations are heavily dependent upon our current executive officers and our key employees within various areas of our operations including production and sales management. The loss of any of our executive officers or key employees, or the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel, could prevent us from successfully exercising our business strategies, delay the development and introduction of new seasonal apparel collections, damage the image of our brands and/or harm our ability to sell our products. 15 There may be other factors not mentioned above, in the discussion below or included in our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings that may cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements. Neither the Company nor any of its corporate officers or key employees assumes any obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or developments, except as required by applicable securities laws. 