ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS THE COMPANY MAY BE ADVERSELY IMPACTED BY FLUCTUATIONS IN CASH FLOWS, LIQUIDITY AND DEBT LEVELS. Working capital requirements and cash flows historically have been, and are expected to continue to be, subject to quarterly and yearly fluctuations, depending on such factors as levels of sales, timing and size of capital expenditures, timing of deliveries and collection of receivables, inventory levels, customer payment terms, customer financing obligations, and supplier terms and conditions. The inability to manage adverse cash flow fluctuations resulting from such factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations, and financial condition. In order to finance the working capital requirements of the Company's business, the Company entered into a three-year revolving credit facility with Bank of America and subsequent to December 31, 2005, borrowed funds thereunder. At December 31, 2005, there were no outstanding borrowed funds under the credit facility, and total availability thereunder was $30,000,000. In addition, at December 31, 2005 the Company maintained a cash balance of $9,985,000. THE COMPANY'S OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE, AND THERE MAY BE VOLATILITY IN GENERAL INDUSTRY, ECONOMIC AND MARKET CONDITIONS. The results of operations for any quarter or year are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Future operating results may be affected by various trends and factors that must be managed in order to achieve favorable operating results. The inability to accurately forecast and manage these trends and factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations, and financial condition. General economic conditions and specifically market conditions in the medical, telecommunications, semiconductor and electric power utility equipment industries in the United States and globally, affect the Company's business. In addition, reduced capital spending and/or negative economic conditions in the United States, Europe, Asia, Latin America and/or other areas of the world could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations, and financial condition. Gross margins may be adversely affected by increased price competition, excess capacity, higher material or labor costs, warranty costs, obsolescence charges, loss of cost savings on future inventory purchases as a result of high inventory levels, introductions of new products, increased levels of customer services, changes in distribution channels, and changes in product and geographic mix. Lower than expected gross margins could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations, and financial condition. Page 7 THE COMPANY'S OPERATING RESULTS AND STOCK PRICE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY FLUCTUATIONS IN CUSTOMERS' BUSINESSES. Business is dependent upon product sales to telecommunications, semiconductor, medical imaging, aerospace and other businesses, which in turn are dependent for their business upon orders from their customers. Any downturn in the business of any of these parties affects the Company. Moreover, sales often reflect orders shipped in the same quarter in which they are received, which makes sales vulnerable to short-term fluctuations in customer demand and difficult to predict. In general, customer orders may be cancelled, modified or rescheduled after receipt. Consequently, the timing of these orders and any subsequent cancellation, modification or rescheduling of these orders has affected, and will in the future affect, results of operations from quarter to quarter. Also, as some of the Company's customers typically order in large quantities, any subsequent cancellation, modification or rescheduling of an individual large order may affect results of operations. FAILURE TO REMAIN COMPETITIVE COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT THE COMPANY'S OPERATING RESULTS. The markets in which the Company sells its products are highly competitive and characterized by rapidly changing and converging technologies. The Company faces intense competition from established competitors and the threat of future competition from new and emerging companies in all aspects of business. The Company's future success will depend on its ability to enhance current products and to develop new products that keep pace with technological developments and respond to changes in customer requirements. Among its current competitors are its customers, who are vertically integrated and either manufacture and/or are capable of manufacturing some or all of the Company's products sold to them. In addition to current competitors, new competitors providing niche, and potentially broad, product solutions will likely increase in the future. To remain competitive in both the current and future business climates, the Company must maintain a substantial commitment to focused research and development, improve the efficiency of its manufacturing operations, and streamline its marketing and sales efforts and attendant customer service and support. Among other things, the Company may not be able to anticipate shifts in its markets or technologies, may not have sufficient resources to continue to make the investments necessary to remain competitive, or may not make the technological advances necessary to remain competitive. In addition, notwithstanding its efforts, technological changes, manufacturing efficiencies or development efforts by competitors may render the Company's products or technologies obsolete or uncompetitive. CONSOLIDATION IN THE INDUSTRY COULD INCREASE COMPETITIVE PRESSURES ON THE COMPANY. The industries in which the Company operates are consolidating and will continue to consolidate in the future as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions. Such consolidations may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. The Company's relatively small size may increase competitive pressure for customers seeking single vendor solutions. Such increased competition would increase the variability of the Company's operating results and could otherwise have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations, and financial condition. THE COMPANY IS DEPENDENT UPON THIRD PARTIES FOR PARTS AND COMPONENTS. The ability to meet customer demand depends, in part, on the ability of the Company to obtain timely and adequate delivery of parts and components from suppliers and internal manufacturing capacity. The Company has experienced significant shortages in the past, and although it works closely with its Page 8 suppliers to avoid shortages, there can be no assurance that it will not encounter further shortages in the future. A further reduction or interruption in component supplies or a significant increase in the price of one or more components could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. THE COMPANY MAY BE SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT COSTS IN COMPLYING WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS. The Company's facilities are subject to a broad array of environmental laws and regulations. The costs of complying with complex environmental laws and regulations may be significant in the future. Present accruals for such costs and liabilities may not be adequate in the future since the estimates on which the accruals are based depend on a number of factors, including the nature of the problem, the complexity of the site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties ("PRPs") at multiparty sites, and the number and financial viability of other PRPs. Further, the Company is the subject of various lawsuits and actions relating to environmental issues, including an administrative action in connection with SurfTech's Pennsauken facility which could subject the Company to, among other things, $9,266,000 in collective reimbursements (with other parties) to NJDEP (as defined herein). In addition, a class action suit was filed on June 12, 2002 against the Company, SurfTech and 37 other defendants alleging that the plaintiffs may suffer personal injuries as a result of consuming contaminated water distributed from the Puchack Wellfield in Pennsauken, New Jersey (which supplies Camden, New Jersey). There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully defend itself against or settle at a reasonable cost these or any other actions to which it is a party. For additional information related to environmental risks, see "Item 3. Legal Proceedings," and Note 13 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. THE COMPANY MAY HAVE TO PAY SIGNIFICANT COSTS FOR REGULATORY COMPLIANCE AND LITIGATION. Rapid or unforeseen escalation of the cost of regulatory compliance and/or litigation, including but not limited to, environmental compliance, product-related liability, assertions related to intellectual property rights and licenses, adoption of new accounting policies, or changes in current accounting policies and practices and the application of such policies and practices could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. Additionally, the Company is subject to certain legal actions involving complaints by terminated employees and disputes with customers and suppliers. In the second quarter of 2005, the Company paid $809,000 to satisfy a judgment resulting from a lawsuit brought by a former customer of SL-MTI. In the future there can be no assurance of the outcome in any litigation. An adverse determination in any one or more significant legal actions could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. See "Item 3. Legal Proceedings," and Note 13 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. THE COMPANY IS DEPENDENT UPON KEY PERSONNEL FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF ITS OPERATIONS. The Company's success depends in part upon the continued services of many of its highly skilled personnel involved in management, engineering and sales, and upon its ability to attract and retain additional highly qualified officers and employees. The loss of service of any of these key personnel could have a material adverse effect on business. In addition, future success will depend on the ability of Page 9 officers and key employees to manage operations successfully. THE COMPANY'S OPERATING RESULTS AND COMMON STOCK ARE SUBJECT TO PRICE FLUCTUATIONS. Operating results for future periods are never perfectly predictable even in the most certain of economic times, and the Company expects to continue to experience fluctuations in its quarterly results. These fluctuations, which in the future may be significant, could cause substantial variability in the market price of the Company's stock. The market price for the Company's common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. The market for the Company's common stock is subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond its control. These include: - additions or departures of key personnel; - changes in market valuations of similar companies; - announcements of new products or services by competitors or new competing technologies; - conditions or trends in medical equipment, medical imaging, aerospace, and electric utility industries; - general market and economic conditions; and - other events or factors that are unforeseen. OTHER FACTORS MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS. The risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known, or that may now be deemed immaterial, may also impair business operations. (D) FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION From time to time, information provided by the Company, including written or oral statements made by representatives, may contain forward-looking information as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, contain forward-looking information, particularly statements which address activities, events or developments that the Company expects or anticipates will or may occur in the future, such as expansion and growth of the Company's business, future capital expenditures and the Company's prospects and strategy. In reviewing such information, it should be kept in mind that actual results may differ materially from those projected or suggested in such forward-looking information. This forward-looking information is based on various factors and was derived utilizing numerous assumptions. Many of these factors previously have been identified in filings or statements made by or on behalf of the Company. Important assumptions and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking information include changes in the general economy, changes in capital investment and/or consumer spending, competitive factors and other factors affecting the Company's business in or beyond the Company's control. These factors include a change in the rate of inflation, a change in state or federal legislation or regulations, an adverse determination with respect to a claim in litigation or other claims (including environmental matters), the ability to recruit and develop employees, the ability to successfully implement new technology and the stability of product costs. These factors also include the timing and degree of any business recovery in certain of the Page 10 Company's markets that are currently experiencing a cyclical economic downturn. Other factors and assumptions not identified above could also cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking information. The Company does not undertake to update forward-looking information contained herein or elsewhere to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking information. Future factors include the effectiveness of cost reduction actions undertaken by the Company; the timing and degree of any business recovery in certain of the Company's markets that are currently experiencing economic uncertainty; increasing prices, products and services offered by U.S. and non-U.S. competitors, including new entrants; rapid technological developments and changes and the Company's ability to continue to introduce and develop competitive new products and services on a timely, cost-effective basis; availability of manufacturing capacity, components and materials; credit concerns and the potential for deterioration of the credit quality of customers; customer demand for the Company's products and services; U.S. and non-U.S. governmental and public policy changes that may affect the level of new investments and purchases made by customers; changes in environmental and other U.S. and non-U.S. governmental regulations; protection and validity of patent and other intellectual property rights; compliance with the covenants and restrictions of bank credit facilities; and outcome of pending and future litigation and governmental proceedings. These are representative of the future factors that could affect the outcome of the forward-looking statements. In addition, such statements could be affected by general industry and market conditions and growth rates, general U.S. and non-U.S. economic conditions, including economic instability in the event of a future terrorist attack or sharp increases in the cost of energy and interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations and other future factors. Page 11 