Risk Factors" included in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K). In 2006, the Company continued to experience sharp increases in the cost of certain strategic raw materials, particularly copper. During 2006, there were no major disruptions in the supply of raw materials. Raw materials are purchased directly from the manufacturer whenever possible to avoid distributor mark-ups. Average lead times generally run from immediate availability to 26 weeks. Lead times can be substantially higher for strategic components subject to industry shortages. In most cases, viable multiple sources are maintained for flexibility and competitive leverage. PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, LICENSES, FRANCHISES AND CONCESSIONS The Company has proprietary information that it has developed and uses in its business. This proprietary information is protected by contractual agreements as well as through patents and patents pending, to the extent appropriate. The patents are protected by federal law. To protect its proprietary information, the Company also enters into non-disclosure agreements with its employees, vendors and customers. Where appropriate, the Company will take and has taken all steps necessary to defend its intellectual property. SEASONALITY Generally, seasonality is not a significant factor in any of the Company's segments. SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS The Company has no customer that accounts for 10% or more of its consolidated net sales from continuing operations. Each of SLPE, the High Power Group, SL-MTI and RFL has certain major customers, the loss of any of which could have a material adverse effect on such segment or group. BACKLOG Backlog at March 4, 2007, March 5, 2006 and March 6, 2005 was $58,801,000, $39,132,000 and $41,607,000, respectively. The backlog at March 4, 2007 increased by $19,669,000, or 50%, compared to March 5, 2006. Acquisitions accounted for $13,847,000, or 70%, of the increased backlog, while the Company's other operating entities account for $5,822,000, or 30%, of the increase. All of the Company's other operating entities had an increase in backlog at March 4, 2007, compared to March 5, 2006. COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS The Company's businesses are in active competition with domestic and foreign companies with national and international name recognition that offer similar products or services and with companies producing alternative products appropriate for the same uses. In addition, SLPE has experienced significant offshore competition for certain products in certain markets. Each of the Company's businesses seeks to gain an advantage from its competition by concentrating on customized products based on customer needs. The Company's businesses also seek a competitive advantage based on quality, service, innovation, delivery and price. Page 5 ENVIRONMENTAL The Company (together with the industries in which it operates or has operated) is subject to United States, Mexican, Chinese and United Kingdom environmental laws and regulations concerning emissions to the air, discharges to surface and subsurface waters and generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials. The Company and the industry are also subject to other federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those that require the Company to remediate or mitigate the effects of the disposal or release of certain chemical substances at various sites, including some where it has ceased operations. It is impossible to predict precisely what effect these laws and regulations will have on the Company in the future. It is the Company's policy to comply with all environmental, health and safety regulations, as well as industry standards for maintenance. The Company's domestic competitors are subject to the same environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and the Company believes that the compliance issues and potential expenditures of its operating subsidiaries are comparable to those faced by its major domestic competitors. There are two sites on which the Company may incur material environmental costs in the future as a result of past activities of its former subsidiary, SurfTech. These sites include the Company's properties located in Pennsauken, New Jersey (the "Pennsauken Site"), and in Camden, New Jersey (the "Camden Site"). The Company's environmental contingencies with respect to the Pennsauken Site are fully discussed in "Item 3. Legal Proceedings" included in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company has reported a ground water contamination plume at the Camden Site. In February 2006, the Company submitted to the NJDEP a plan to certify the potential areas of concern for the Camden Page 6 Site, which is currently under review. Based on the information so far, the Company believes that the cost to remediate the Camden Site should not exceed approximately $560,000, which has been fully reserved. These costs have been recorded as a component of discontinued operations in previous years. The Company has reported soil and ground water contamination on SL-MTI's property in Montevideo, Minnesota. SL-MTI has conducted analysis of the contamination and performed remediation at the site. Further remediation efforts will be required and the Company is engaged in discussions with the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency to develop a remediation plan. Based on the current information, the Company believes it will incur remediation costs at this site of approximately $188,000, which has been accrued at December 31, 2006. The accrual for this site was $220,000 at December 31, 2005. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2006, the Company had approximately 1,900 employees. Of these employees, 153 were subject to collective bargaining agreements. FOREIGN OPERATIONS In addition to manufacturing operations in California, Minnesota, New Jersey and Wisconsin, the Company manufactures substantial quantities of products in premises leased in Mexicali, Mexico, Matamoros, Mexico and Tecate, Mexico. The Company has also outsourced the manufacture of some of its products with a contract manufacturer located in Juarez, Mexico. With the acquisition of Ault, the Company obtained significant manufacturing capabilities at facilities located in Xianghe, China. These external and foreign sources of supply present risks of interruption for reasons beyond the Company's control, including political or economic instability and other uncertainties. Generally, the Company's sales are priced in United States dollars and its costs and expenses are priced in United States dollars, Mexican pesos and Chinese yuan. Accordingly, the competitiveness of the Company's products relative to locally produced products may be affected by the performance of the United States dollar compared with that of its foreign customers' and competitors' currencies. Foreign net sales comprised 17%, 13% and 13% of net sales from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2006, December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Additionally, the Company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, which might result from adverse fluctuations in the value of the Mexican peso and Chinese yuan. At December 31, 2006, the Company had net assets of $485,000 subject to fluctuations in the value of the Mexican peso and Chinese yuan. At December 31, 2005, the Company had net liabilities of $639,000 subject to fluctuations in the value of the Mexican peso. Fluctuations in the value of the foreign currencies were not significant in 2006. There can be no assurance that the value of the Mexican peso and Chinese yuan will continue to remain stable relative to the United States dollar. SLPE manufactures most of its products in Mexico and China and incurs its labor costs and supplies in Mexican pesos and Chinese yuan. Teal has transferred a significant amount of its manufacturing to a wholly-owned subsidiary located in Tecate, Mexico. SL-MTI manufactures a significant portion of its products in Mexico and incurs related labor costs and supplies in Mexican pesos. MTE utilizes a contract manufacturer located in Juarez, Mexico. SLPE, the High Power Group and SL-MTI price and invoice substantially all of their sales in United States dollars. The Chinese and Mexican subsidiaries of Page 7 SLPE maintains its books and records in Mexican pesos and Chinese yuan, respectively. The Mexican subsidiaries of SL-MTI and Teal maintain their books and records in Mexican pesos. For additional information related to financial information about foreign operations, see Notes 15 and 16 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Additional information regarding the development of the Company's businesses during 2006 and 2005 is contained in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in Part II and Notes 1 and 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS THE COMPANY MAY BE ADVERSELY IMPACTED BY FLUCTUATIONS IN CASH FLOWS, LIQUIDITY AND DEBT LEVELS. Working capital requirements and cash flows historically have been, and are expected to continue to be, subject to quarterly and yearly fluctuations, depending on such factors as levels of sales, timing and size of capital expenditures, timing of deliveries and collection of receivables, inventory levels, customer payment terms, customer financing obligations and supplier terms and conditions. The inability to manage adverse cash flow fluctuations resulting from such factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. In order to finance the working capital requirements of the Company's business, the Company entered into the Revolving Credit Facility, and subsequent to December 31, 2005 borrowed funds thereunder. At December 31, 2006, the Company had outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility of $19,800,000. In addition, at December 31, 2006 the Company maintained a cash balance of $757,000. At December 31, 2005, there were no outstanding borrowed funds under the Revolving Credit Facility, and total availability thereunder was $30,000,000, less $634,000 related to an outstanding letter of credit. THE COMPANY'S OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE AND THERE MAY BE VOLATILITY IN GENERAL INDUSTRY, ECONOMIC AND MARKET CONDITIONS. The results of operations for any quarter or year are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Future operating results may be affected by various trends and factors that must be managed in order to achieve favorable operating results. The inability to accurately forecast and manage these trends and factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. General economic conditions and specifically market conditions in the medical, telecommunications, semiconductor and electric power utility equipment industries in the United States and globally, affect the Company's business. In addition, reduced capital spending and/or negative economic conditions in the United States, Europe, Asia, Latin America and/or other areas of the world could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Page 8 Gross margins may be adversely affected by increased price competition, excess capacity, higher material or labor costs, warranty costs, obsolescence charges, loss of cost savings on future inventory purchases as a result of high inventory levels, introductions of new products, increased levels of customer services, changes in distribution channels and changes in product and geographic mix. Lower than expected gross margins could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. THE COMPANY'S OPERATING RESULTS AND STOCK PRICE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY FLUCTUATIONS IN CUSTOMERS' BUSINESSES. Business is dependent upon product sales to telecommunications, semiconductor, medical imaging, commercial and military aerospace and other businesses, which in turn are dependent for their business upon orders from their customers. Any downturn in the business of any of these parties affects the Company. Moreover, sales often reflect orders shipped in the same quarter in which they are received, which makes sales vulnerable to short-term fluctuations in customer demand and difficult to predict. In general, customer orders may be cancelled, modified or rescheduled after receipt. Consequently, the timing of these orders and any subsequent cancellation, modification or rescheduling of these orders has affected, and will in the future affect, results of operations from quarter to quarter. Also, as some of the Company's customers typically order in large quantities, any subsequent cancellation, modification or rescheduling of an individual large order may affect results of operations. FAILURE TO REMAIN COMPETITIVE COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT THE COMPANY'S OPERATING RESULTS. The markets in which the Company sells its products are highly competitive and characterized by rapidly changing and converging technologies. The Company faces intense competition from established competitors and the threat of future competition from new and emerging companies in all aspects of business. The Company's future success will depend on its ability to enhance current products and to develop new products that keep pace with technological developments and respond to changes in customer requirements. Among its current competitors are its customers, who are vertically integrated and either manufacture and/or are capable of manufacturing some or all of the Company's products sold to them. In addition to current competitors, new competitors providing niche, and potentially broad, product solutions will likely increase in the future. To remain competitive in both the current and future business climates, the Company must maintain a substantial commitment to focused research and development, improve the efficiency of its manufacturing operations and streamline its marketing and sales efforts and attendant customer service and support. Among other things, the Company may not be able to anticipate shifts in its markets or technologies, may not have sufficient resources to continue to make the investments necessary to remain competitive or may not make the technological advances necessary to remain competitive. In addition, notwithstanding its efforts, technological changes, manufacturing efficiencies or development efforts by competitors may render the Company's products or technologies obsolete or uncompetitive. CONSOLIDATION IN THE INDUSTRY COULD INCREASE COMPETITIVE PRESSURES ON THE COMPANY. The industries in which the Company operates are consolidating and will continue to consolidate in the future as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions. Such consolidations may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. The Page 9 Company's relatively small size may increase competitive pressure for customers seeking single vendor solutions. Such increased competition would increase the variability of the Company's operating results and could otherwise have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. THE COMPANY IS DEPENDENT UPON THIRD PARTIES FOR PARTS AND COMPONENTS. The ability to meet customer demand depends, in part, on the ability of the Company to obtain timely and adequate delivery of parts and components from suppliers and internal manufacturing capacity. The Company has experienced significant shortages in the past, and although it works closely with its suppliers to avoid shortages, there can be no assurance that it will not encounter further shortages in the future. A further reduction or interruption in component supplies or a significant increase in the price of one or more components could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. THE COMPANY MAY BE SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT COSTS IN COMPLYING WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS. The Company's facilities are subject to a broad array of environmental laws and regulations. The costs of complying with complex environmental laws and regulations may be significant in the future. Present accruals for such costs and liabilities may not be adequate in the future, as the estimates on which the accruals are based depend on a number of factors, including the nature of the problem, the complexity of the site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and the number and financial viability of other PRPs at multiparty sites. Further, the Company is the subject of various lawsuits and actions relating to environmental issues, including being named by the EPA as a PRP in a Superfund Site in Pennsauken, New Jersey (as discussed above). There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully defend itself against, or settle at a reasonable cost, these or any other actions to which it is a party. For additional information related to environmental risks, see "Item 3. Legal Proceedings," included in Part I and Note 12 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. THE COMPANY MAY HAVE TO PAY SIGNIFICANT COSTS FOR REGULATORY COMPLIANCE AND LITIGATION. Rapid or unforeseen escalation of the cost of regulatory compliance and/or litigation, including but not limited to, environmental compliance, product-related liability, assertions related to intellectual property rights and licenses, adoption of new accounting policies, or changes in current accounting policies and practices and the application of such policies and practices could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. Additionally, the Company is subject to certain legal actions involving complaints by terminated employees and disputes with customers and suppliers. There can be no assurance of the outcome in any litigation. An adverse determination in any one or more significant legal actions could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. See "Item 3. Legal Proceedings," included in Part I and Note 12 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Page 10 THE COMPANY IS DEPENDENT UPON KEY PERSONNEL FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF ITS OPERATIONS. The Company's success depends in part upon the continued services of many of its highly skilled personnel involved in management, engineering and sales, and upon its ability to attract and retain additional highly qualified officers and employees. The loss of service of any of these key personnel could have a material adverse effect on business. In addition, future success will depend on the ability of officers and key employees to manage operations successfully. THE COMPANY'S OPERATING RESULTS AND COMMON STOCK ARE SUBJECT TO PRICE FLUCTUATIONS. Operating results for future periods are never perfectly predictable even in the most certain of economic times, and the Company expects to continue to experience fluctuations in its quarterly results. These fluctuations, which in the future may be significant, could cause substantial variability in the market price of the Company's stock. The market price for the Company's common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. The market for the Company's common stock is subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond its control. These include: - additions or departures of key personnel; - changes in market valuations of similar companies; - announcements of new products or services by competitors or new competing technologies; - conditions or trends in medical equipment, medical imaging, military and commercial aerospace and electric utility industries; - general market and economic conditions; and - other events or factors that are unforeseen. OTHER FACTORS MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS. The risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known, or that may now be deemed immaterial, may also impair business operations. (D) FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION From time to time, information provided by the Company, including written or oral statements made by representatives, may contain forward-looking information as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, contain forward-looking information, particularly statements which address activities, events or developments that the Company expects or anticipates will or may occur in the future, such as expansion and growth of the Company's business, future capital expenditures and the Company's prospects and strategy. In reviewing such information, it should be kept in mind that actual results may differ materially from those projected or suggested in such forward-looking information. This forward-looking information is based on various factors and was derived utilizing numerous assumptions. Many of these factors previously have been identified in filings or statements made by or on behalf of the Company. Important assumptions and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking information include changes in the general economy, changes in capital investment and/or consumer spending, competitive factors and other factors affecting the Company's business in or beyond the Company's control. These factors include a change in the rate Page 11 of inflation, a change in state or federal legislation or regulations, an adverse determination with respect to a claim in litigation or other claims (including environmental matters), the ability to recruit and develop employees, the ability to successfully implement new technology and the stability of product costs. These factors also include the timing and degree of any business recovery in certain of the Company's markets that are currently experiencing a cyclical economic downturn. Other factors and assumptions not identified above could also cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking information. The Company does not undertake to update forward-looking information contained herein or elsewhere to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking information. Future factors include the effectiveness of cost reduction actions undertaken by the Company; the timing and degree of any business recovery in certain of the Company's markets that are currently experiencing economic uncertainty; increasing prices, products and services offered by U.S. and non-U.S. competitors, including new entrants; rapid technological developments and changes and the Company's ability to continue to introduce and develop competitive new products and services on a timely, cost-effective basis; availability of manufacturing capacity, components and materials; credit concerns and the potential for deterioration of the credit quality of customers; customer demand for the Company's products and services; U.S. and non-U.S. governmental and public policy changes that may affect the level of new investments and purchases made by customers; changes in environmental and other U.S. and non-U.S. governmental regulations; protection and validity of patent and other intellectual property rights; compliance with the covenants and restrictions of bank credit facilities; and outcome of pending and future litigation and governmental proceedings. These are representative of the future factors that could affect the outcome of the forward-looking statements. In addition, such statements could be affected by general industry and market conditions and growth rates, general U.S. and non-U.S. economic conditions, including economic instability in the event of a future terrorist attack or sharp increases in the cost of energy and interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations and other future factors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 