ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our short-term and long-term success is subject to many factors that are beyond our control. Stockholders and prospective stockholders in the Company should consider carefully the following risk factors, in addition to the information contained in this report. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors including those set forth below. We have a history of losses which could continue in the future. We have reported losses in each of the last three fiscal years and have an accumulated deficit of $10.8 million as of March 28, 2010. There can be no assurance that we will report net income in any future period. The limited availability under our revolving credit facility may result in insufficient working capital. Our credit facility with Bank of America, N.A. (the “Lender”) provides for advances up to $45.0 million to the Company, increasing to $70.0 million, from September 1st of each year through December 31st of each year, and up to an additional $10.0 million currently is available to the Company through a special advance facility. The amount available under the special advance facility will be reduced by $2.5 million on the first day of each month commencing on July 1, 2010, and the special advance facility will terminate on October 1, 2010. The amount we may borrow under this credit facility is limited to a percentage of the value of eligible inventory, minus certain reserves. Our obligation to the Lender is presently secured b y a first priority lien on substantially all of our non-real estate assets. A significant decrease in eligible inventory due to our vendors’ unwillingness to ship us product, the aging of inventory, an unfavorable inventory appraisal or other factors, could have an adverse effect on our borrowing capabilities under our credit facility, which may adversely affect the adequacy of our working capital. If cash generated by operations does not result in a sufficient level of unused borrowing capacity, our current operations could be constrained by our ability to obtain funds under the terms of our revolving credit facility. In such a case, we would need to seek other financing alternatives with our bank or other sources. Additional financing may not be available at terms acceptable to us, or at all. Failure to obtain financing in such circumstances may require us to significantly curtail our operations. In the event of a significant decrease in availability under our credit facility, we may have insufficient working capital to continue to operate our business as it has been operated, or at all. The covenants in our revolving credit facility may limit future borrowings to fund our operations. Our credit facility with our Lender is subject to an EBITDA covenant that requires us to exceed certain monthly amounts as defined in the Fourth Amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement. There can be no assurance that there will not be an event of default and additional financing may not be available at terms acceptable to us, or at all. Failure to obtain financing in such circumstances may require us to significantly curtail our operations. If our vendors do not provide sufficient quantities of products, our net sales may suffer and hinder our return to profitability. We purchase merchandise from approximately 1,000 vendors. Although only one vendor accounted for approximately 10% of our total inventory purchases for fiscal 2010, our dependence on principal vendors involves risk. Our ten largest vendors collectively accounted for approximately 40% of our total purchases during fiscal 2010. If there is a disruption in supply from a principal vendor for any reason, including concern over our position with our Lender, we may be unable to obtain merchandise that we desire to sell and that consumers desire to purchase. A vendor could discontinue selling products to us at any time for reasons that may or may not be within our control. Our net sales may decline and hinder our return to profitability if we are unable to promptly replace a vendor who is unwilling or unable to satisfy our requirements with a vendor providing equally appealing products. Moreover, many of our vendors provide us with incentives, such as return privileges, volume purchase allowances and cooperative marketing arrangements. A decline or discontinuation of these incentives could also negatively impact our results of operations. 9 Table of Contents If we are unable to effectively manage and expand our alliances and relationships with selected suppliers of brand name products, we may be unable to effectively execute our strategy to differentiate ourselves from our competitors. As part of our focus on product differentiation, we have formed strategic alliances and exclusive relationships with selected suppliers to market products under a variety of well-recognized brand names. If we are unable to manage and expand these alliances and relationships or identify alternative sources for comparable products, we may not be able to effectively execute product differentiation. A downturn in the economy has affected consumer purchases of discretionary items, significantly reducing our net sales and profitability. The retail industry historically has been subject to substantial cyclical variations. The merchandise sold by us is generally a discretionary expense for our customers. The current downturn in the general economy and uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect consumer spending habits are having, and are likely to continue for some time to have, a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. We have sustained operating losses and negative comparable store sales for the past three fiscal years. In the event sales decline at a rate greater than anticipated to support the loan covenants, we may have insufficient working capital to continue to operate our business as it has been operated, or at all. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in reducing operating expenses and controlling costs in an amount sufficient to return to profitability. In our efforts to reduce operating expenses and improve liquidity, we have reviewed all of our store leases and are obtaining rent reductions and lease modifications from our landlords. Additionally, we are evaluating our operating expenses, such as store labor, corporate overhead and advertising, and continue to implement cost reductions. No assurance can be given that by reducing operating expenses and controlling costs we will return to profitability. Any failure to successfully reduce an adequate amount of operating expenses and control costs could constrain our ability to continue to operate our business. We may need to record additional impairment losses in the future if our stores' operating performance does not improve. We continually review all our stores' operating performance and evaluate the carrying value of their assets in relation to their expected future cash flows. In those cases where circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the applicable assets may not be recoverable, we record an impairment loss related to the long-lived assets. We incurred a non-cash impairment charge of $10.9 million, $10.7 million and $2.1 million in fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, related to six, nine and two stores, respectively. If our newer stores' operating performance does not improve in the future or our existing stores’ operating performance continues to deteriorate in the future, the carrying value of our stores' assets may not be recoverable in light of future expected cash flo ws. Additionally, our newer stores may not mature at a rate in line with our expectations or past experience. This may result in our need to record additional impairment losses in certain markets where our stores operate and could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Intense competition in the sporting goods industry could limit our growth and reduce our profitability. The sporting goods business and the retail environment are highly competitive, and we compete with local, regional and national specialty stores and independent retailers, internet retailers and catalog merchandisers, vendor owned stores, high end department stores, big box sporting goods chains, mass merchandisers, club stores, and discount stores. A number of our competitors are larger and may have greater resources. No assurance can be given that a diminished competitive environment due to the exit of key competitors throughout the marketplace will allow us to improve our business and increase our overall profitability. 10 Table of Contents Our future operations may be dependent on the availability of additional financing. We may not be able to fund our future operations or react to competitive pressures if we lack sufficient funds. Unexpected conditions could cause us to be in violation of our Lender’s operating covenants as occurred in fiscal 2009. Although we have restructured our bank credit facility and we believe we have sufficient cash available through our bank credit facility and cash from operations to fund existing operations for the foreseeable future, we cannot be certain that additional financing will be available in the future if necessary. Because our stores are concentrated in the western portion of the United States, we are subject to regional risks. Currently, most of our stores are located in Southern California and the remaining are located in Northern California, Nevada, Arizona and Utah. Accordingly, we are subject to regional risks, such as the economy, weather conditions, natural disasters and government regulations. For example, warm Winter weather in the resorts frequented by our customers has affected sales in the third quarter of the most recent fiscal year. When the region suffers an economic downturn, such as declines in the housing and credit markets, increased unemployment and bankruptcies, which has been strongly felt in California, Arizona and Nevada, or when other adverse events occur, historically there has been an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. In addition, many of our vendors rely o n the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach to process our shipments. Any disruption or congestion at the ports could impair our ability to adequately stock our stores. Several of our competitors operate stores across the United States and, thus, are not as vulnerable to such regional risks. If we are unable to predict or react to changes in consumer demand, we may lose customers and our sales may decline. If we fail to anticipate changes in consumer preferences, we will experience lower net sales, higher inventory markdowns and lower margins. Products may or may not appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty. These preferences are also subject to change. Specialty sporting goods are often subject to short-lived trends, such as the short-lived popularity of wheeled footwear. Apparel is significantly influenced by the latest fashion trends and styles. Our success depends upon the ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to trends in specialty merchandise and consumers’ participation in sports on an individual market basis. Failure to identify and respond to these changes may cause net sales to decline. In additi on, because we generally make commitments to purchase products from vendors up to nine months in advance of the proposed delivery, misjudging the market may cause us to over-stock unpopular products and force inventory markdowns that could have a negative impact on profitability, or cause us to have insufficient inventory of a popular item that can be sold at full markup. Failure to protect the integrity and security of our customers’ information could expose us to litigation and materially damage our standing with our customers. The increasing costs associated with information security — such as increased investment in technology, the costs of compliance with consumer protection laws and costs resulting from consumer fraud — could cause our business and results of operations to suffer materially. While we are taking significant steps to protect customer and confidential information, there can be no assurance that advances in computer capabilities or other developments will prevent the compromise of our customer transaction processing capabilities and personal data. More specifically, as Action Pass, our customer relationship program, continues to grow, our exposure and risk increase as well. If any such compromise of our information securi ty were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition and may increase the costs we incur to protect against such information security breaches. 11 Table of Contents As a result of the current economic downturn, we have delayed opening new stores. Continued growth is uncertain and subject to numerous risks. Since our inception, we have experienced periods of rapid growth. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in maintaining or increasing our sales in the future. Any future growth in sales will require additional working capital and may place a significant strain on our management, information systems, inventory management and distribution facilities. Any failure to timely enhance our operating systems, or unexpected difficulties in implementing such enhancements, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, growth depends on a strategy of opening new, profitable stores in existing markets and in new regional markets. The ability to successfully implement this growth strategy could be negatively affected by any of the following: · suitable sites may not be available for leasing; · we may not be able to negotiate acceptable lease terms; · we might not be able to hire and retain qualified store personnel; and · we might not have the financial resources necessary to fund our expansion plans. We face additional challenges in entering new markets, including consumers’ lack of awareness of the Company, difficulties in hiring personnel and problems due to our unfamiliarity with local real estate markets and demographics. New markets may also have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets. To the extent that we are not able to meet these new challenges, sales could decrease and operating costs could increase. Furthermore, a decline in our overall financial performance, increased rents or any other adverse effects arising from the commercial real estate market in our geographical markets may adversely affect our growth. There can be no assurance that we will possess sufficient funds to finance the expenditures related to gr owth, that new stores can be opened on a timely basis, that such new stores can be operated on a profitable basis, or that such growth will be manageable. If we lose key management or are unable to attract and retain talent, our operating results could suffer. We depend on the continued service of our senior management. The loss of the services of any key employee could hurt our business. Also, our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train and motivate other highly skilled personnel. Failure to do so may adversely affect future results. Seasonal fluctuations in the sales of our merchandise and services could cause our annual operating results to suffer. Our sales volume increases significantly during the Holiday season as is typical with other retailers. In addition, our product mix has historically emphasized cold weather merchandise increasing the seasonality of our business. In recent years, our third fiscal quarter, which includes the Holiday season, represented approximately 30% of our annual net sales. Winter-related products represent approximately 16% of our annual net sales and have ranged from 25% to 30% of our fourth fiscal quarter. We anticipate this seasonal trend in sales will continue. The operating results historically have been influenced by the amount and timing of snowfall at the resorts frequented by our customers. An early snowfall often has influenced sales because it gener ally extends the demand for Winter apparel and equipment, while a late snowfall may have the opposite effect. Ski and snowboard vendors require us to make commitments for purchases of apparel and equipment by early Spring for Fall delivery, and only limited quantities of merchandise can be reordered during the Fall. Consequently, we place our orders in the Spring anticipating snowfall in the Winter. If the snowfall does not at least provide an adequate base or occurs late in the season, or if sales do not meet projections, we may be required to mark down our Winter apparel and equipment. 12 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate substantially, which may adversely affect our business. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, a substantial variation in our net sales and operating results from quarter to quarter. We believe that the factors which influence this variability of quarterly results include general economic and industry conditions that affect consumer spending, changing consumer demands, the timing of our introduction of new products, the level of consumer acceptance of each new product, the seasonality of the markets in which we participate, the weather and actions of competitors. Accordingly, a comparison of our results of operations from period to period is not necessarily meaningful, and our results of operations for any period are not necessarily indicative of future performance. Declines in the effectiveness of marketing could cause our operating results to suffer. Our marketing campaigns historically relied on direct mail, radio, newspaper, magazines and more recently, email and the internet. Also our marketing leverage has been boosted by vendor payments under cooperative marketing arrangements as well as vendor participation in sponsoring events, clinics and athletes’ appearances. Our recent strategy shift significantly enhanced our online presence with a complete redesign of sportchalet.com and new initiatives focused on driving consumers to the new website and building ongoing relationships with our Action Pass customers. We are directly marketing to individual customers based on their personal shopping information through the customer relationship program. No assurance can be given that our recent shift in marketing strategy will be successful in connecting with our customers, capturing additional market share through a fully integrated online and offline shopping experience, and raising familiarity with Sport Chalet. We are relatively new to and have fewer resources than our competitors in the ECommerce arena and our results may not meet our expectations. In addition, no assurance can be given that what we learn from our Action Pass members about their shopping preferences and patterns will increase our ability to apply this learning to decisions about assortments, category adjacencies, and other marketing initiatives across our entire network of stores. Problems with our information systems could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial results. Our ability to successfully manage inventory levels and our centralized distribution system largely depends upon the efficient operation of our computer hardware and software systems. We use management information systems to track inventory information at the store level, replenish inventory from our warehouse, and aggregate daily sales information, among other things. These systems and our operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: · earthquake, fire, flood and other natural disasters; · power loss, computer systems failures, internet and telecommunications or data network failure, operator negligence, improper operation by or supervision of employees, physical and electronic loss of data and similar events; and · computer viruses, penetration by hackers seeking to disrupt operations or misappropriate information and other breaches of security. We seek to minimize these risks by the use of backup facilities and redundant systems. Nevertheless any failure that causes an interruption in our operations or a decrease in inventory tracking could result in reduced net sales. We are controlled by our Founder and management, whose interests may differ from other stockholders. As of June 17, 2010, Norbert Olberz, the Company's founder, Craig Levra, the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Howard Kaminsky, the Company’s Chief Financial Officer, owned approximately 20%, 33% and 12%, respectively, of the voting power of the Company’s outstanding voting Class A and Class B Common Stock. Messrs. Olberz, Levra and Kaminsky effectively have the ability to control the outcome on all matters requiring stockholder approval, including, but not limited to, the election and removal of directors, and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets, and to control the Company’s management and affairs. Transactions may be pursued that could enhance Messrs. Olberz, Levra and Kaminsky’s interests in the Company while involving risks to the interests of the Company’s other stockholders, and there is no assurance that their interests will not conflict with the interests of the Company’s other stockholders. 13 Table of Contents The price of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock may be volatile. Our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock are thinly traded making it difficult to sell large amounts. The market prices of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock are likely to be volatile and could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to factors such as quarterly variations in operating results, operating results which vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors, changes in financial estimates, changes in market valuations of competitors, announcements by us or our competitors of a material nature, additions or departures of key personnel, future sales of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock and stock volume fluctuations. Also, general political and economic conditions such as a recession or interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. From time to time the Class A Common Stock has traded significantly lower than the Class B Common Stock, and there can be no assurance as to the relative trading prices of the Class A Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock. Provisions in the Company's charter documents could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. As of June 17, 2010, Norbert Olberz, the Company's founder, Craig Levra, the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Howard Kaminsky, the Company’s Chief Financial Officer, owned approximately 20%, 33% and 12%, respectively, of the voting power of the Company’s outstanding voting Class A and Class B Common Stock. The holder of a share of Class B Common Stock is entitled to one vote on each matter presented to the stockholders whereas the holder of a share of Class A Common Stock has 1/20th of one vote on each matter presented to the stockholders. Subject to the Class A protection provisions described below, Messrs. Olberz, Levra and Kaminsky will be able to sell shares of Class A Common Stock and use the proceeds to purchase additional shares of Class B Common Stock, thereby increasing their collective voting power. Subject to the prohibition on the grant, issuance, sale or transfer of Class B Common Stock to Messrs. Levra and Kaminsky, the Company will also be able to issue Class B Common Stock (subject to the applicable rules of the NASD and the availability of authorized and unissued shares of Class B Common Stock) to persons deemed by the Board of Directors to be preferable to a potential acquirer, thereby diluting the voting power of that potential acquirer. The Class A protection provisions in the Company's Certificate of Incorporation could also make acquisition of voting control more expensive by requiring an acquirer of 10% or more of the outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock to purchase a corresponding proportion of Class A Common Stock. The Company's Certificate of Incorporation contains certain other provisions that may have an "anti-takeover" effect. The Company's Certificate of Incorporation does not provide for cumulative voting and, accordingly, a significant minority stockholder could not necessarily elect any designee to the Board of Directors. As a result of these provisions in the Company's Certificate of Incorporation, stockholders of the Company may be deprived of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices and it would be more difficult to replace the directors and management of the Company. We may be subject to periodic litigation that may adversely affect our business and financial performance. We may be subject to lawsuits resulting from injuries associated with the use of the products or services we sell, employment matters or violations of government regulations. There is a risk that claims or liabilities will exceed our insurance coverage. In addition, we may be unable to retain adequate liability insurance in the future. An unfavorable outcome or settlement in any such proceeding could, in addition to requiring us to pay any settlement or judgment amount, increase our operating expense as a consequence and cause damage to our reputation. 14 Table of Contents Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition; lease accounting; the carrying amount of property and equipment, inventories and deferred income tax assets are highly complex and may involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance. Terrorist attacks or acts of war may harm our business. Terrorist attacks may cause damage or disruption to our employees, facilities, information systems, vendors and customers, which could significantly impact net sales, costs and expenses and financial condition. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks, and other acts of war or hostility may cause greater uncertainty and cause us to suffer in ways that we currently cannot predict. Our geographical focus in California, Nevada, Arizona and Utah may make us more vulnerable to such uncertainties than other comparable retailers who may not have similar geographical concentration. We rely on one distribution center and any disruption could reduce our sales. We currently rely on a single distribution center in Ontario, California. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption to this distribution center due to fire, earthquake or any other cause could damage a significant portion of our inventory and could materially impair both our ability to adequately stock our stores and our sales and profitability. We may pursue strategic acquisitions, which could have an adverse impact on our business. We may from time to time acquire complementary companies or businesses. Acquisitions may result in difficulties in assimilating acquired companies, and may result in the diversion of our capital and our management’s attention from other business issues and opportunities. We may not be able to successfully integrate operations that we acquire, including their personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general store operating procedures. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions, our business could suffer. In addition, the integration of any acquired business, and their financial results, into ours may adversely affect our operating results. We currently do not have any agreements with respect to any such acquisitions. Our comparable store sales will fluctuate and may not be a meaningful indicator of future performance. Changes in our comparable store sales results could affect the price of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. A number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable store sales results, including: competition, our new store openings and remodeling, general regional and national economic conditions, actions taken by our competitors, consumer trends and preferences, changes in the shopping centers in which we are located, new product introductions and changes in our product mix, timing and effectiveness of promotional events, lack of new product introductions to spur growth in the sale of various kinds of sports equipment, and weather. Our comparable store sales may vary from quarter to quarter, and an unanticipated decline in revenues or comparable store sales may cau se the price of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock to fluctuate significantly. 15 Table of Contents A regional or global health pandemic could severely affect our business. A health pandemic is a disease that spreads rapidly and widely by infection and affects many individuals in an area or population at the same time. If a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its location, duration and severity, our business could be severely affected. Customers might avoid public places in the event of a health pandemic, and local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or delay the spread of disease. A regional or global health pandemic might also adversely impact our business by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of products in our supply chain and by causing staffing shortages in our stores. Global warming could cause erosion of both our Winter and Summer seasonal businesses over a long-term basis. Changes to our environment, whether natural or man-made, could cause significant disruption in both air temperature and snowfall, limiting our ability to capitalize on one of our core competencies, the Winter business. In addition, lack of proper snowfall could have a negative impact on our fishing and lake-focused water sports businesses, as these rely on streams, rivers, and lakes to be at adequate depth and clarity in order to provide enjoyable experiences for our customers. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 