ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our short- and long-term success is subject to many factors that are beyond our control. Stockholders and prospective stockholders in the Company should consider carefully the following risk factors, in addition to the information contained in this report. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors including those set forth below. A downturn in the economy has affected consumer purchases of discretionary items, reducing our net sales. The retail industry historically has been subject to substantial cyclical variations. The merchandise sold by us is generally a discretionary expense for our customers. A downturn in the general economy or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect consumer spending habits is having, and is likely to continue for some time to have, a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. Intense competition in the sporting goods industry could limit our growth and reduce our profitability. The sporting goods business and the retail environment are highly competitive, and we compete with national, regional and local full-line sporting goods chains, specialty stores, supplier owned stores, discount and department stores, and internet retailers. A number of our competitors are larger and have greater resources. Our future growth will be dependent on the availability of additional financing. We may not be able to fund our future growth or react to competitive pressures if we lack sufficient funds. Unexpected conditions could cause us to be in violation of our lender’s operating covenants as occurred in fiscal 2008. Although we have restructured our bank credit facility, the new agreement will cost more in the form of interest expense and fees. In addition, while we have historically had modest bank debt, we anticipate having much larger debt going forward. Currently, we believe we have sufficient cash available through our bank credit facilities and cash from operations to fund existing operations for the foreseeable future. We cannot be certain that additional financing will be available in the future if necessary Because our stores are concentrated in the western portion of the United States, we are subject to regional risks. Currently, most of our stores are located in Southern California and the remaining are located in Northern California, Central California, Nevada, Arizona and Utah. Accordingly, we are subject to regional risks, such as the economy, weather conditions, natural disasters and government regulations. For example, warm winter weather in the resorts frequented by our customers has affected sales in the past. When the region suffers an economic downturn, such as the mortgage crisis affecting California, Arizona and Nevada, or when other adverse events occur, historically there has been an adverse effect on our sales and profitability and this could also affect our ability to implement our planned growth. In addition, many of our vendors rely on the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach to process our shipments. Any disruption or congestion at the ports could impair our ability to adequately stock our stores. Several of our competitors operate stores across the United States and, thus, are not as vulnerable to such regional risks. 7 If we are unable to predict or react to changes in consumer demand, we may lose customers and our sales may decline. If we fail to anticipate changes in consumer preferences, we will experience lower net sales, higher inventory markdowns and lower margins. Products may or may not appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty. These preferences are also subject to change. Specialty sporting goods are often subject to short-lived trends, such as the short-lived popularity of wheeled footwear. Apparel is significantly influenced by the latest fashion trends and styles. Our success depends upon the ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to trends in specialty merchandise and consumers’ participation in sports on an individual market basis. Failure to identify and respond to these changes may cause net sales to decline. In addition, because we generally make commitments to purchase products from vendors up to nine months in advance of the proposed delivery, misjudging the market may over-stock unpopular products and force inventory markdowns that could have a negative impact on profitability, or have insufficient inventory of a popular item that can be sold at full markup. Implementing Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will be expensive, time-consuming and require significant management attention, and may not be successful. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are first required to perform an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Beginning in our 2009 fiscal year, our independent registered public accounting firm will have to test and evaluate the design and operating effectiveness of such internal controls and publicly attest to such evaluation. The implementation process of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will be expensive, time-consuming and will require significant attention of the Company’s management. The Company cannot assure that it will not discover material weaknesses in its internal controls. The Company also cannot assure that it will complete the process of its evaluation and the auditors' attestation on time. If the Company discovers a material weakness, corrective action may be time-consuming, costly and further divert the attention of management. The disclosure of a material weakness, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market's confidence in the Company’s financial statements, and harm its stock price, especially if a restatement of financial statements for past periods were to be necessary. In October 2006, we selected an enterprise resource management system (the "ERP System") from SAP to replace our existing merchandise and financial information systems. Over the next eighteen months, we were in the process of implementing this system, including testing the system in a controlled environment, training our personnel in the use of the system and documenting and testing the control environment in preparation for compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our planned “go-live” date for the new system was October 1, 2007. However, we encountered delays in, among other things, integrating the ERP System with our existing "best of breed" merchandise planning system. As a result of such delays we elected to postpone implementation of the ERP System until after the end of the fiscal year ended March 30, 2008 as we did not believe it would be prudent to implement the new system so close to our fiscal year-end. We implemented the ERP System on March 31, 2008. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management is required to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year beginning with fiscal 2008. We have made a substantial investment to ensure that the ERP System will provide effective internal control over financial reporting, and we have evaluated our controls that are not intended to change with the implementation of the ERP System. Because we initially anticipated that the “go-live” date of the ERP System would be prior to March 30, 2008, we did not, however, fully evaluate the effectiveness of the existing controls that were to be replaced by the ERP System. With the delay in implementing the ERP System, we did not have sufficient time to fully document, test and remediate (where applicable) those controls that we previously planned to replace prior to March 30, 2008. As a result, we believe our inability to fully test the legacy system or the ERP System as required by Section 404 results in a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and results in an ineffective assessment of our control environment. 8 There can be no assurance that we will be successful in documenting, testing or remediating (where applicable) the ERP System before the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2009 ending June 29, 2008 or at all, that we will not discover material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, or that we will be able to remediate any such weakness. Failure to protect the integrity and security of our customers’ information could expose us to litigation and materially damage our standing with our customers. The increasing costs associated with information security — such as increased investment in technology, the costs of compliance with consumer protection laws and costs resulting from consumer fraud — could cause our business and results of operations to suffer materially. While we are taking significant steps to protect customer and confidential information, there can be no assurance that advances in computer capabilities or other developments will prevent the compromise of our customer transaction processing capabilities and personal data. If any such compromise of our information security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition and may increase the costs we incur to protect against such information security breaches. If we are unable to successfully implement our controlled growth strategy or manage our growing business, our future operating results could suffer. Since our inception, we have experienced periods of rapid growth. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in maintaining or increasing our sales in the future. Any future growth in sales will require additional working capital and may place a significant strain on our management, information systems, inventory management and distribution facilities. Any failure to timely enhance our operating systems, or unexpected difficulties in implementing such enhancements, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our ability to expand our business will be dependent upon our ability to meet challenges in new and existing markets. Our continued growth depends on a strategy of opening new, profitable stores in existing markets and in new regional markets. The ability to successfully implement this growth strategy could be negatively affected by any of the following: · suitable sites may not be available for leasing; · we may not be able to negotiate acceptable lease terms; · we might not be able to hire and retain qualified store personnel; and · we might not have the financial resources necessary to fund our expansion plans. In addition, our expansion in new and existing markets may present competitive, distribution and merchandising challenges that differ from the current challenges. These potential new challenges include competition among our stores, added strain on our distribution center, additional information to be processed by our management information systems and diversion of management attention from ongoing operations. We face additional challenges in entering new markets, including consumers’ lack of awareness of the Company, difficulties in hiring personnel and problems due to our unfamiliarity with local real estate markets and demographics. New markets may also have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets. To the extent that we are not able to meet these new challenges, sales could decrease and operating costs could increase. Furthermore, a decline in our overall financial performance, increased rents or any other adverse effects arising from the commercial real estate market in our geographical markets may adversely affect our current growth plan. There can be no assurance that we will possess sufficient funds to finance the expenditures related to our planned growth, that new stores can be opened on a timely basis, that such new stores can be operated on a profitable basis, or that such growth will be manageable. 9 Failure to maintain an online presence that mirrors our customers’ in-store experience could adversely impact net sales. We currently operate our online store through GSI Commerce, Inc. (“GSI”). GSI creates and operates all aspects of the www.sportchalet.com shopping experience, including fulfillment and purchasing, while remaining transparent to the customer. Customers’ expectations are changing with some customers shopping online for information before traveling to a store. If the customer does not get the information they need, in a fast and efficient process, they may not visit our stores. This could cause net sales to decline. There are no guarantees that our plans for managing our online business will be successful. If we lose key management or are unable to attract and retain talent, our operating results could suffer. We depend on the continued service of our senior management. The loss of the services of any key employee could hurt our business. Also, our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train and motivate other highly skilled personnel. Failure to do so may adversely affect future results. Seasonal fluctuations in the sales of sporting goods could cause our annual operating results to suffer. Our sales volume increases significantly during the Holiday season as is typical with other sporting goods retailers. In addition, our product mix has historically emphasized cold weather sporting goods increasing the seasonality of our business. In recent years, our third fiscal quarter, which includes the Holiday season, represented approximately 30% of our annual net sales. Winter-related products represent approximately 17% of our annual net sales and have ranged from 27% to 31% of our fourth fiscal quarter. We anticipate this seasonal trend in sales will continue. The operating results historically have been influenced by the amount and timing of snowfall at the resorts frequented by our customers. An early snowfall often has influenced sales because it generally extends the demand for winter apparel and equipment, while a late snowfall may have the opposite effect. Suppliers in the ski and snowboard industry require us to make commitments for purchases of apparel and equipment by early spring for fall delivery, and only limited quantities of merchandise can be reordered during the fall. Consequently, we place our orders in the spring anticipating snowfall in the winter. If the snowfall does not at least provide an adequate base or occurs late in the season, or if sales do not meet projections, we may be required to mark down our winter apparel and equipment. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate substantially, which may adversely affect our business. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, a substantial variation in our net sales and operating results from quarter to quarter. We believe that the factors which influence this variability of quarterly results include general economic and industry conditions that affect consumer spending, changing consumer demands, the timing of our introduction of new products, the level of consumer acceptance of each new product, the seasonality of the markets in which we participate, the weather and actions of competitors. Accordingly, a comparison of our results of operations from period to period is not necessarily meaningful, and our results of operations for any period are not necessarily indicative of future performance. 10 Declines in the effectiveness of marketing could cause our operating results to suffer. Our marketing campaigns rely on email, direct mail, radio, newspaper, magazines and the internet. Also our marketing leverage has been boosted by vendor payments under cooperative marketing arrangements. We are directly marketing to individual customers based on their personal shopping information through our customer relationship program, “Action Pass.” Technology is eroding the effectiveness of all forms of advertising. Customers have more entertainment choices, many of which have no advertising or provide the ability to skip the commercials. If we are unable to develop other effective strategies to reach potential customers within our desired markets, awareness of our stores, products and promotions could decline and our net sales could suffer. In addition, vendors’ ability or willingness to participate in new strategies may decline effectively increasing our cost of marketing which could adversely affect our operating results. Problems with our information systems could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial results. Our success, in particular our ability to successfully manage inventory levels and our centralized distribution system, largely depends upon the efficient operation of our computer hardware and software systems. We use management information systems to track inventory information at the store level, replenish inventory from our warehouse, and aggregate daily sales information among other things. These systems and our operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: · earthquake, fire, flood and other natural disasters; · power loss, computer systems failures, internet and telecommunications or data network failure, operator negligence, improper operation by or supervision of employees, physical and electronic loss of data and similar events; and · computer viruses, penetration by hackers seeking to disrupt operations or misappropriate information and other breaches of security. We seek to minimize these risks by the use of backup facilities and redundant systems. Nevertheless any failure that causes an interruption in our operations or a decrease in inventory tracking could result in reduced net sales. We are controlled by our Founder and management, whose interests may differ from other stockholders. At June 24, 2008, Norbert Olberz, the Company's founder, Craig Levra, the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Howard Kaminsky, the Company’s Chief Financial Officer, owned approximately 21%, 33% and 12%, respectively, of the voting power of the Company’s outstanding voting Class A and Class B Common Stock. Messrs. Olberz, Levra and Kaminsky effectively have the ability to control the outcome on all matters requiring stockholder approval, including, but not limited to, the election and removal of directors, and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets, and to control the Company’s management and affairs. Transactions may be pursued that could enhance Messrs. Olberz, Levra and Kaminsky’s interests in the Company while involving risks to the interests of the Company’s other stockholders, and there is no assurance that their interests will not conflict with the interests of the Company’s other stockholders. 11 The price of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock may be volatile. Our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock are thinly traded making it difficult to sell large amounts. The market prices of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock are likely to be volatile and could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to factors such as quarterly variations in operating results, operating results which vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors, changes in financial estimates, changes in market valuations of competitors, announcements by us or our competitors of a material nature, additions or departures of key personnel, future sales of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock and stock volume fluctuations. Also, general political and economic conditions such as a recession or interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. Provisions in the Company's charter documents could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. At June 24, 2008, Norbert Olberz, the Company's founder, Craig Levra, the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Howard Kaminsky, the Company’s Chief Financial Officer, owned approximately 21%, 33% and 12%, respectively, of the voting power of the Company’s outstanding voting Class A and Class B Common Stock. The holder of a share of Class B Common Stock is entitled to one vote on each matter presented to the stockholders whereas the holder of a share of Class A Common Stock has 1/20th of one vote on each matter presented to the stockholders. Subject to the Class A protection provisions described below, Messrs. Olberz, Levra and Kaminsky will be able to sell shares of Class A Common Stock and use the proceeds to purchase additional shares of Class B Common Stock, thereby increasing their collective voting power. Subject to the prohibition on the grant, issuance, sale or transfer of Class B Common Stock to Messrs. Levra and Kaminsky, the Company will also be able to issue Class B Common Stock (subject to the applicable rules of the NASD and the availability of authorized and unissued shares of Class B Common Stock) to persons deemed by the Board of Directors to be preferable to a potential acquirer, thereby diluting the voting power of that potential acquirer. The Class A protection provisions in the Company's Certificate of Incorporation could also make acquisition of voting control more expensive by requiring an acquirer of 10% or more of the outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock to purchase a corresponding proportion of Class A Common Stock. The Company's Certificate of Incorporation contains certain other provisions that may have an "anti-takeover" effect. The Company's Certificate of Incorporation does not provide for cumulative voting and, accordingly, a significant minority stockholder could not necessarily elect any designee to the Board of Directors. The Company's Certificate of Incorporation also provides that the Board of Directors shall be divided into three classes, as nearly equal in number as possible, which are elected for staggered three-year terms and, accordingly, it could take at least two annual meetings to change a majority of the Board of Directors. As a result of these provisions in the Company's Certificate of Incorporation, stockholders of the Company may be deprived of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices and it would be more difficult to replace the directors and management of the Company. We may be subject to periodic litigation that may adversely affect our business and financial performance. We may be subject to lawsuits resulting from injuries associated with the use of the products or services we sell, employment matters or violations of government regulations. There is a risk that claims or liabilities will exceed our insurance coverage. In addition, we may be unable to retain adequate liability insurance in the future. An unfavorable outcome or settlement in any such proceeding could, in addition to requiring us to pay any settlement or judgment amount, increase our operating expense as a consequence and cause damage to our reputation. 12 Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results. Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition; lease accounting; the carrying amount of property and equipment, inventories and deferred income tax assets are highly complex and may involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance. Terrorist attacks or acts of war may harm our business. Terrorist attacks may cause damage or disruption to our employees, facilities, information systems, vendors and customers, which could significantly impact net sales, costs and expenses and financial condition. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks, and other acts of war or hostility may cause greater uncertainty and cause us to suffer in ways that we currently cannot predict. Our geographical focus in California, Nevada, Arizona and Utah may make us more vulnerable to such uncertainties than other comparable retailers who may not have similar geographical concentration. We rely on one distribution center and any disruption could reduce our sales. We currently rely on a single distribution center in Ontario, California. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption to this distribution center due to fire, earthquake or any other cause could damage a significant portion of our inventory and could materially impair both our ability to adequately stock our stores and our sales and profitability. We may pursue strategic acquisitions, which could have an adverse impact on our business. We may from time to time acquire complementary companies or businesses. Acquisitions may result in difficulties in assimilating acquired companies, and may result in the diversion of our capital and our management’s attention from other business issues and opportunities. We may not be able to successfully integrate operations that we acquire, including their personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general store operating procedures. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions, our business could suffer. In addition, the integration of any acquired business, and their financial results, into ours may adversely affect our operating results. We currently do not have any agreements with respect to any such acquisitions. Our comparable store sales will fluctuate and may not be a meaningful indicator of future performance. Changes in our comparable store sales results could affect the price of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. A number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable store sales results, including: competition, our new store openings and remodeling, general regional and national economic conditions, actions taken by our competitors, consumer trends and preferences, changes in the shopping centers in which we are located, new product introductions and changes in our product mix, timing and effectiveness of promotional events, lack of new product introductions to spur growth in the sale of various kinds of sports equipment, and weather. Our comparable store sales may vary from quarter to quarter, and an unanticipated decline in revenues or comparable store sales may cause the price of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock to fluctuate significantly. 13 Global warming could cause erosion of both our winter and summer seasonal businesses over a long-term basis. Changes to our environment, whether natural or man made, could cause significant disruption in both air temperature and snowfall, limiting our ability to capitalize on one of our core competencies-the winter business. In addition, lack of proper snowfall could have a negative impact on our fishing and lake-focused water sports businesses, as these rely on streams, rivers, and lakes to be at proper depth and clarity in order to provide enjoyable experiences for our customers. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 14 ITEM 