Item 1A. Risk Factors – If we lose key management or are unable to attract and retain talent, our operating results could suffer.” We are committed to the growth and training of our employees in order to provide “Experts” in merchandise knowledge and service to our customers. We conduct specialty universities, consisting of off-site technical training and merchandise demonstrations provided by our vendors for our employees. All of these universities are recorded for follow-up training online, and we continuously provide individual category training on an individual store basis. This training prepares our employees to become certified in particular sports or activities, while at the same time reducing employee turnover. In addition, our “Certified Expert” program encourages employees to attend merchandise-line-specific clinics and receive hands-on training to improve technical merchandise and service expertise. Only after completing all of the clinics and training and passing specific tests may an associate be considered a Certified Expert. Certified Expert certification is offered in 20 different service disciplines and is a requirement for new associates in their areas of expertise. Being knowledgeable and informed allows our work force to meet our customer’s needs and enhance their shopping experience. Additional Information The Company makes available free of charge through our website, sportchalet.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). 7 Table of Contents The public may read any of the items we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information about the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding the Company and other issuers that file electronically with the SEC at sec.gov. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our short-term and long-term success is subject to many factors that are beyond our control. Stockholders and prospective stockholders in the Company should consider carefully the following risk factors, in addition to the information contained in this report. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors including those set forth below. If our vendors do not provide sufficient quantities of merchandise, our net sales may suffer and hinder our return to profitability. We purchase merchandise from approximately 1,000 vendors. One vendor accounted for approximately 12% of our total inventory purchases for fiscal 2014, and our ten largest vendors collectively accounted for approximately 40% of our total purchases during fiscal 2014. Our dependence on vendors involves risk. As a result of our continued losses, decline in comparable store sales and limited liquidity, we have experienced from time to time a reduction in vendor credit terms. If the disruption in supply from our vendors continues or worsens for any reason, including concern over our financial condition or vendor supply chain issues, we may be unable to obtain merchandise that we desire to sell and that consumers desire to purchase. A vendor could discontinue selling merchandise to us at any time for reasons that may or may not be within our control. Our availability under our revolving credit facility may be reduced and net sales may decline and hinder our return to profitability if we are unable to promptly replace a vendor who is unwilling or unable to satisfy our requirements with a vendor providing equally appealing merchandise. No assurance can be given that our efforts to resolve our vendors’ concern over our financial condition, and negotiate to continue to purchase from them merchandise at terms acceptable to us or at all, in the future will be successful. Decreases in merchandise could cause sales to decline, losses to increase, a reduction in availability under our credit facility and negatively impact our operations. Moreover, many of our vendors provide us with incentives, such as return privileges, volume purchase allowances and cooperative marketing arrangements. A decline in or discontinuation of these incentives could also negatively impact our results of operations. The limited availability under our revolving credit facility may result in insufficient working capital. Our revolving credit facility with Bank of America, N.A. (the “Lender”) provides for advances up to $75 million. The amount we may borrow under this credit facility is limited to a percentage of the value of accounts receivable and eligible inventory, minus certain reserves. As a result of our continued losses and our desire to strengthen our financial position and liquidity, on June 27, 2014, we entered into a term loan credit facility with Crystal Financial SBIC LP for $15 million. The term loan credit facility is structured in conjunction with the Lender’s revolving credit facility for a total combined facility of $90 million (the “Combined Credit Facility”) and is secured by a second security position on all our assets and capital stock in our subsidiaries, subject only to a first position in favor of the Lender’s revolving credit facility. The amount we may borrow under the Combined Credit Facility is limited to a percentage of the value of accounts receivable and eligible inventory, minus certain reserves. For a more detailed description of the Company’s credit facilities, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” A significant decrease in eligible inventory due to our vendors’ unwillingness to ship us merchandise, the aging of inventory and/or an unfavorable inventory appraisal could have an adverse effect on our borrowing capacity under our Combined Credit Facility, such as triggering a default, which may adversely affect the adequacy of our working capital. Also we are subject to, among others, a covenant that we maintain a Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio (FCCR) measured on a trailing four-quarter basis greater than 1.10 to 1.00. The covenant would only apply if our availability falls below specified 8 Table of Contents amounts. As of March 30, 2014 the FCCR was below 1.10 to 1.00, and we do not expect to exceed this threshold for the next four quarters. In the event of a significant decrease in availability under our credit facility, it is highly likely that the covenant would be violated and we would have insufficient working capital to continue to operate our business as it has been operated, or at all. There can be no assurance that there will not be an event of default which if not cured within the period specified in the credit facility, would result in our outstanding borrowings becoming immediately due and payable, and may require us to seek protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Additional financing may not be available at terms acceptable to us, or at all. In fiscal 2014, our peak borrowing occurred during the week ended November 10, 2013, at which time the Lender’s credit facility had a borrowing capacity of $75.0 million, of which we utilized $67.1 million (including a letter of credit of $4.5 million) and had $0.4 million in availability above the FCCR covenant trigger. On March 30, 2014, we utilized $56.9 million (including a letter of credit of $4.5 million) and had $2.0 million in availability above the FCCR covenant trigger. The amount of availability fluctuates due to seasonal changes in sales and inventory purchases throughout the year. If cash generated by operations does not result in a sufficient level of unused borrowing capacity, our current operations could be constrained by our ability to obtain funds under the terms of our revolving credit facility. In such a case, we would need to seek other financing alternatives with our bank or other sources. Additional financing may not be available at terms acceptable to us, or at all. Failure to obtain financing in such circumstances may require us to significantly curtail our operations or to seek protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Our future operations may be dependent on the availability of additional financing. We may not be able to fund our future operations or react to competitive pressures if we lack sufficient funds. Unexpected conditions could cause us to be in violation of our Lender’s operating covenants as occurred in fiscal 2009. We cannot be certain that additional financing will be available at terms acceptable to us or at all in the future if necessary. We have a history of losses which could continue in the future. We have reported losses for each of the last seven fiscal years and have an accumulated deficit of $32.3 million as of March 30, 2014. There can be no assurance that we will report net income in any future period. Since fiscal 2007, we have increasingly relied on debt for our capital needs, to fund new store openings and to cover losses from operations. As a result, on June 27, 2014, we entered into a term loan credit facility with Crystal Financial SBIC LP for advances up to $15 million. The cost associated with this loan, such as the interest rate of Libor plus 8.50%, may further hinder our return to profitability. 9 Table of Contents Our Common Stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Stock Market (“Nasdaq”). On June 25, 2014, the Company received notice (the “Notice”) from Nasdaq that the Company’s Class A Common Stock (the “Class A Shares”) and Class B Common Stock (the “Class B Shares”) are not in compliance with Rule 5450 and 5460, respectively, of the Nasdaq Listing Rules (the “Listing Rules”). Rule 5450 requires a primary class of common stock, such as the Class A Shares, to maintain a minimum Market Value of Publicly Held Shares (“MVPHS”) of $5 million. The MVPHS of a class of common stock is equal to (x) the consolidated closing bid price of the shares of such class multiplied by (y) the number of shares of such class not held directly or indirectly by an officer, director or beneficial owner (determined in accordance with Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act of 1934) of more than 10% of the total shares of such class outstanding. As of June 25, 2014, the MVPHS of the Class A Shares was $4,582,522, based upon (x) a consolidated closing bid price of $1.05, and (y) 4,364,307 Class A Shares not held directly or indirectly by an officer, director or beneficial owner of more than 10% of the total Class A Shares outstanding, each as of that date. Rule 5460 requires a secondary class of common stock, such as the Class B Shares, to maintain a minimum MVPHS of $1 million. As of June 25, 2014, the MVPHS of the Class B Shares was $875,558, based upon (x) a consolidated closing bid price of $1.05, and (y) 833,865 Class B Shares not held directly or indirectly by an officer, director or beneficial owner of more than 10% of the total Class B Shares outstanding, each as of that date. The Listing Rules provide a period of 180 calendar days in which to regain compliance with Rule 5450 or 5460, as the case may be. If at any time during this period the MVPHS of the Class A Shares closes at $5 million or more, or the Class B Shares closes at $1 million or more, in each case for a minimum of ten consecutive business days, the Company will regain compliance with respect to such class. If the Company does not regain compliance with respect to the Class A Shares or the Class B Shares prior to the expiration of this 180-day period, the shares of such class will be subject to delisting. The Company would have the right to appeal any determination by Nasdaq to initiate delisting proceedings. 10 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that the Company will take any action(s) in response to the Notice, that the Company will develop a plan to regain compliance of the Class A Shares or the Class B Shares, that any such plan will be successful, that the Company will appeal any determination by Nasdaq to initiate delisting of the Class A Shares or the Class B Shares, that Nasdaq will grant any such appeal, or that the Company will be able to regain or subsequently maintain compliance with the requirements for continued listing of the Class A Shares or the Class B Shares under the Listing Rules (including, but not limited to, with respect to the deficiency set forth in the Notice). As of June 25, 2014, 7,582,144 Class A Shares and 129,980 Class B Shares (representing 61.1% and 7.3%, respectively, of the outstanding shares of such class) held by The Olberz Family Trust dated 05/06/1997, Eric S. Olberz and Irene M. Olberz and 791,635 Class B Shares (representing 44.6% of the outstanding shares of such class) held by Craig Levra, the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, are pledged as collateral for loans. Failure to maintain listing on Nasdaq of the Class A Shares or the Class B Shares may have a material adverse effect on the price or liquidity of the Class A Shares or Class B Shares. Failure to maintain listing on Nasdaq, or a decline in the price, of the Class A Shares or the Class B Shares may result in the sale of some or all of the shares pledged. Additionally, Rule 5450 requires a Company to maintain a minimum of $10 million in stockholders’ equity for continued listing on the Global Market. As of March 30, 2014, the Company reported stockholders’ equity of $5.3 million and no longer complies with the Listing Rules. The Listing Rules provide a period of 45 calendar days after receiving notice of noncompliance from Nasdaq for the Company to submit a plan to regain compliance with the requirement for a minimum stockholders’ equity. In determining whether to accept the Company’s plan, Nasdaq would consider such things as the likelihood that the plan will result in compliance with Nasdaq’s continued listing criteria, the Company’s past compliance history, the reasons for the Company’s current non-compliance, other corporate events that may occur within Nasdaq’s review period, the Company’s overall financial condition and its public disclosures. If the Company’s plan were to be accepted, Nasdaq could grant an extension of up to 180 calendar days from the date of the notice to evidence compliance. If Nasdaq were not to accept the plan, the Company would have the opportunity to appeal that decision. Alternatively, the Company may consider applying to transfer its securities to The Nasdaq Capital Market (the “Capital Market”), provided it then meets the Capital Market’s listing requirements. There can be no assurance that the Company would develop a plan to regain compliance with the requirement for a minimum stockholders’ equity, that Nasdaq would accept such plan, that any such plan would be successful, that the Company would appeal any determination by Nasdaq to reject the plan, that Nasdaq would grant any such appeal, that the Company would meet the listing requirements of the Capital Market, or that the Company would be able to regain or subsequently maintain compliance with the requirements for continued listing under the Listing Rules for the Global Market or the Capital Market (including, but not limited to, with respect to the failure to maintain a minimum stockholders’ equity). The downturn in the economy that commenced in fiscal 2009 continues to affect consumer purchases of discretionary items, significantly reducing our net sales and profitability. The retail industry historically has been subject to substantial cyclical variations. The merchandise sold by us is generally a discretionary expense for our customers. The downturn in the general economy that commenced in fiscal 2009 and continuing uncertainties regarding future economic prospects are having, and are likely to continue for some time to have, a materially adverse effect on consumer spending habits and our results of operations. We have sustained operating losses for the past seven fiscal years and negative comparable store sales for six of the last seven fiscal years. There can be no assurance that we will report net income in any future period or that comparable store sales will not continue to decline. No assurance can be given that continued losses and declines in 11 Table of Contents comparable store sales will not cause vendors to decrease, delay or stop selling merchandise to us. Decreases in merchandise could cause sales to decline, losses to increase, a reduction in availability under our credit facility and negatively impact our operations. If we lose key management or are unable to attract and retain talent, our operating results could suffer. We depend on the continued service of our senior management. The loss of the services of any key employee could hurt our business. Also, our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train and motivate other highly skilled personnel. Failure to do so may adversely affect future results. If we are unable to effectively manage and expand our alliances and relationships with selected suppliers of brand name merchandise, we may be unable to effectively execute our strategy to differentiate ourselves from our competitors. As part of our focus on merchandise differentiation, we have formed strategic alliances and exclusive relationships with selected suppliers to market merchandise under a variety of well-recognized brand names. If we are unable to manage and expand these alliances and relationships or identify alternative sources for comparable merchandise, we may not be able to effectively execute our merchandise differentiation strategy. Additionally, consumers may not identify us as a source for these leading brands. Intense competition in the sporting goods industry could limit our growth and reduce our profitability. The sporting goods business and the retail environment are highly competitive, and we compete with specialty stores and independent dealers, internet retailers and catalog merchandisers, high end department stores, vendor owned stores, mass merchandisers and discount stores, and big box sporting goods chains. A number of our competitors are substantially larger, have substantially greater financial resources, and have substantially better name recognition in regions in which we currently operate or into which we might seek to expand. No assurance can be given that as our competitors continue to actively open stores in our markets, we will be able to continue to improve our business and return to profitability. Because our stores are concentrated in the western portion of the United States, we are subject to regional risks. Currently, most of our stores are located in Southern California, and the remaining stores are located in Northern California, Nevada, Arizona and Utah. Accordingly, we are subject to regional risks, such as the economy, weather conditions, natural disasters and government regulations. When the region suffers an economic downturn, such as the decline in 2008 in the housing and credit markets and the increase in unemployment and bankruptcies, which have been strongly felt in California, Arizona and Nevada, there is an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. In addition, many of our vendors rely on the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach to process our shipments. Any disruption or congestion at these ports could impair our ability to adequately stock our stores. Several of our competitors operate stores across the United States and, thus, are not as vulnerable to such regional risks. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in continuing to grow our Team Sales Division and online business. We may not be able to continue to grow our online business and Team Sales Division at a rate similar to that of the last few years. The online retail environment is highly competitive, and we compete with a number of online retailers who are substantially larger, have substantially greater financial resources, and have substantially better name recognition. Additionally, our online business is dependent on third-party business partners that are crucial to our online operations by handling functions such as merchandise data uploading, order and payment processing, and website hosting. Our dependence on these key partners involves risk. If these partners do not continue to meet our performance expectations and we fail to identify alternative partners with improved capabilities, we may not be able to effectively continue to grow our online business. Our online business accounted for less than 10% of our total sales in fiscal 2014. 12 Table of Contents Our Team Sales customer base is generally comprised of universities, high schools, athletic teams, youth sports leagues, booster clubs and recreational organizations. These organizations may depend on state and federal funding which could be limited in the future which would negatively impact our sales. We utilize a traveling commissioned sales force to serve our customers. Our Team Sales performance is substantially dependent on the skills, experience, and performance of our key employees, especially our road sales professionals, and our ability to recruit, retain and motivate them. Consequently, the loss of one or more key road sales professionals results in our loss of the customer relationships maintained by the departing road sales professionals, and adversely affects our net sales and results of operations. Our Team Sales Division accounted for less than 10% of our total sales in fiscal 2014. If we are unable to predict or react to changes in consumer demand, we may lose customers and our sales may decline. If we fail to anticipate changes in consumer preferences, we will experience lower net sales, higher inventory markdowns and lower margins. Merchandise may or may not appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty. These preferences are also subject to change. Specialty sporting goods are often subject to short-lived trends, such as the short-lived popularity of wheeled footwear. Apparel is significantly influenced by the latest fashion trends and styles. Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to trends in specialty merchandise and consumers’ participation in sports on an individual market basis. Failure to identify and respond to these changes may cause net sales to decline. In addition, because we generally make commitments to purchase merchandise from vendors up to nine months in advance of the proposed delivery, misjudging the market may cause us to over-stock unpopular merchandise and force inventory markdowns that could have a negative impact on profitability, or cause us to have insufficient inventory of a popular item that can be sold at full markup. Seasonal fluctuations in the sales of our merchandise and services could cause our annual operating results to suffer. Our sales volume increases significantly during the holiday season as is typical with other retailers. In addition, our merchandise mix has historically emphasized winter-sports related merchandise increasing the seasonality of our business. This positioning makes us more dependent upon winter business and the amount of snowfall at the resorts most frequented by our customers. In recent years, our fiscal third quarter, which includes the holiday season, represented approximately 30% of our annual sales. Winter-related merchandise and services represent approximately 12% of our annual sales and have ranged from approximately 15% to 25% of sales in our fiscal fourth quarter. We anticipate this seasonal trend in sales will continue. Our operating results historically have been influenced by the amount and timing of snowfall at the resorts most frequented by our customers. An early snowfall often has influenced sales because it generally extends the demand for winter apparel and equipment, while a late snowfall may have the opposite effect. Ski and snowboard vendors require us to make commitments for purchases of apparel and equipment by early spring for fall delivery, and only limited quantities of merchandise can be reordered during the fall. Consequently, we place our orders in the spring anticipating snowfall in the winter. If the snowfall does not at least provide an adequate base or occurs late in the season, or if sales do not meet projections, we may be required to mark down our winter apparel and equipment. Declines in the effectiveness of marketing could cause our operating results to suffer. Our marketing campaigns are focused on the internet, email, direct mail, sports sponsorships, radio and magazines. Also our marketing leverage has been boosted by vendor payments under cooperative marketing arrangements as well as vendor participation in sponsoring events, clinics and athletes’ appearances. We recently have enhanced our online presence with new initiatives focused on driving consumers to our website and building ongoing relationships with our Action Pass customers. We are directly marketing to individual customers based on their personal shopping information through the customer relationship program. No assurance can be given that our shift in marketing strategy will be 13 Table of Contents successful in connecting with our customers, capturing additional market share through an integrated online and in-store shopping experience, and raising familiarity with Sport Chalet. We are relatively new to and have fewer resources than our competitors in the online arena, and our results may not meet our expectations. In addition, no assurance can be given that what we learn from our Action Pass members about their shopping preferences and patterns will increase our ability to apply this learning to decisions about assortments, category adjacencies, and other marketing initiatives across our entire network of stores. Problems with our information systems could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial results. Our ability to successfully manage inventory levels and our centralized distribution system largely depends upon the efficient operation of our computer hardware and software systems. We use management information systems to track inventory information at the store level, replenish inventory from our warehouse, and aggregate daily sales information, among other things. These systems and our operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • earthquake, fire, flood and other natural disasters; • power loss, computer systems failures, internet and telecommunications or data network failure, operator negligence, improper operation by or supervision of employees, physical and electronic loss of data and similar events; and • computer viruses, penetration by hackers seeking to disrupt operations or misappropriate information and other breaches of security. Any failure that causes an interruption in our operations or a decrease in inventory tracking could result in reduced net sales. Failure to protect the integrity and security of our customers’ information could expose us to litigation and materially damage our standing with our customers. The increasing costs associated with information security, such as increased investment in technology, the costs of compliance with consumer protection laws and costs resulting from consumer fraud, could cause our business and results of operations to suffer materially. While we are taking significant steps to protect customer and confidential information, there can be no assurance that these efforts or advances in computer capabilities or other developments will prevent the compromise of our customer transaction processing capabilities and personal data. More specifically, as Action Pass, our customer relationship management program, continues to grow, our exposure and risk increase as well. If any such compromise of our information security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition and may increase the costs we incur to protect against such information security breaches. We may not be able to renew the leases of existing store locations. We may not be able to renew the leases of existing store locations on our current lease terms. No assurance can be given that our future lease renewals will not be less favorable than the current lease terms. Many factors including, but not limited to, our history of losses and financial condition and competition for our store leases from our competitors, may prevent us from renewing the leases of existing store locations on the current lease terms or at all. We may be unable to agree on the terms of a lease renewal with our landlords, which could materially adversely affect our operating results. We may not be able to terminate or modify the leases of existing store locations. In refining our store strategy, we have identified underperforming stores. We intend to terminate or modify the leases of stores that do not meet specific financial criteria, which may reduce our sales and the impact of advertising in those local markets. No assurance can be given that we will be able to terminate or modify the leases of existing stores. Furthermore, terminating or modifying the leases may require us to incur additional costs, which could materially adversely affect our operating results for the period in which the store closing occurs, and no assurance can be given that we will be able to fund the costs of terminating or modifying store leases. 14 Table of Contents Future growth is highly uncertain and subject to numerous risks. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in maintaining or increasing our sales in the future. Any future growth in sales will require additional working capital and may place a significant strain on our management, information systems, inventory management, and distribution facilities. Any failure to timely enhance our operating systems, or unexpected difficulties in implementing such enhancements, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to increase our sales. In addition, our ability to open new, profitable stores in existing markets and in new regional markets could be negatively affected by any of the following: • suitable sites may not be available for leasing; • we may not be able to negotiate acceptable lease terms; • we might not be able to hire and retain qualified store personnel; and • we might not have the financial resources necessary to fund our expansion plans. We face additional challenges in entering new markets, including consumers’ lack of awareness of the Company, difficulties in hiring personnel, cannibalization of our existing stores’ sales and problems due to our unfamiliarity with local real estate markets and demographics. New markets may also have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets. To the extent that we are not able to meet these new challenges, sales could decrease and operating costs could increase. Furthermore, a decline in our overall financial performance, increased rents or any other adverse effects arising from the commercial real estate market in our geographical markets may adversely affect our growth. There can be no assurance that we will possess sufficient funds to finance the expenditures related to growth, that new stores can be opened on a timely basis, that such new stores can be operated on a profitable basis, or that such growth will be manageable. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate substantially. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, a substantial variation in our net sales and operating results from quarter to quarter. We believe that the factors which influence this variability of quarterly results include general economic and industry conditions that affect consumer spending, changing consumer demands, the timing of our introduction of new merchandise, the level of consumer acceptance of new merchandise, the seasonality of the markets in which we participate, the weather and actions of competitors. Accordingly, a comparison of our results of operations from period to period is not necessarily meaningful, and our results of operations for any period are not necessarily indicative of future performance. See “Note 9. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited).” We are controlled by Irene and Eric Olberz and management, whose interests may differ from those of other stockholders. As of June 24, 2014, Irene and Eric Olberz, the wife and son of the Company’s founder, Craig Levra, the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Howard Kaminsky, the Company’s Chief Financial Officer, owned approximately 21%, 33% and 6%, respectively, of the voting power of the Company’s outstanding voting Class A and Class B Common Stock. Ms. Olberz and Messrs. Olberz, Levra and Kaminsky effectively have the ability to control the outcome on all matters requiring stockholder approval, including, but not limited to, the election and removal of directors, and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets, and to control the Company’s management and affairs. Transactions may be pursued that could enhance Ms. Olberz and Messrs. Olberz, Levra and Kaminsky’s interests in the Company while involving risks to the interests of the Company’s other stockholders, and there is no assurance that their interests will not conflict with the interests of the Company’s other stockholders. 15 Table of Contents Our Class A and Class B Common Stock is thinly traded and the price of our Class A and Class B Common Stock may be volatile. The shares of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock are thinly traded making it difficult to sell shares at such times and in such amounts as a shareholder may desire. The market prices of shares of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock have been, and are likely to continue to be, volatile and could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to unknown and known factors such as quarterly variations in operating results, operating results which vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors, changes in financial estimates, changes in market valuations of competitors, announcements by us or our competitors of a material nature, additions or departures of key personnel, future sales of shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock and stock volume fluctuations. Also, the Company’s inability to regain or subsequently maintain compliance with the requirements for continued listing under the Listing Rules for Nasdaq’s Global Market or Capital Market, as well as general political and economic conditions such as a recession or interest rate fluctuations, may adversely affect the market price of shares of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. From time to time shares of the Class A Common Stock have traded significantly lower than shares of the Class B Common Stock, and there can be no assurance as to the relative trading prices of shares of the Class A Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock. Provisions in the Company’s charter documents could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. As of June 24, 2014, Irene and Eric Olberz, the wife and son of the Company’s founder, Craig Levra, the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Howard Kaminsky, the Company’s Chief Financial Officer, owned approximately 21%, 33% and 6%, respectively, of the voting power of the Company’s outstanding voting Class A and Class B Common Stock. The holder of a share of Class B Common Stock is entitled to one vote on each matter presented to the stockholders whereas the holder of a share of Class A Common Stock has 1/20th of one vote on each matter presented to the stockholders. Subject to the Class A protection provisions described below, Ms. Olberz and Messrs. Olberz, Levra and Kaminsky will be able to sell shares of Class A Common Stock and use the proceeds to purchase additional shares of Class B Common Stock, thereby increasing their collective voting power. Subject to the prohibition on the grant, issuance, sale or transfer of Class B Common Stock to Messrs. Levra and Kaminsky, the Company will also be able to issue Class B Common Stock (subject to the applicable rules of the NASD and the availability of authorized and unissued shares of Class B Common Stock) to persons deemed by the Board of Directors to be preferable to a potential acquirer, thereby diluting the voting power of that potential acquirer. The Class A protection provisions in the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation could also make acquisition of voting control more expensive by requiring an acquirer of 10% or more of the outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock to purchase a corresponding proportion of Class A Common Stock. The Company’s Certificate of Incorporation contains certain other provisions that may have an “anti-takeover” effect. The Company’s Certificate of Incorporation does not provide for cumulative voting and, accordingly, a significant minority stockholder could not necessarily elect any designee to the Board of Directors. As a result of these provisions in the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation, stockholders of the Company may be deprived of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices and it would be more difficult to replace the directors and management of the Company. We may be subject to litigation that may adversely affect our business and financial performance. We may be subject to lawsuits resulting from injuries associated with the use of the merchandise or services we sell, employment matters or violations of government regulations. There is a risk that claims or liabilities will exceed our insurance coverage. In addition, we may be unable to retain adequate liability insurance in the future. An unfavorable outcome or settlement in any such proceeding could, in addition to requiring us to pay any settlement or judgment amount, increase our operating expense as a consequence and cause damage to our reputation. 16 Table of Contents Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, lease accounting, and the carrying amount of property and equipment, inventories and deferred income tax assets, are highly complex and may involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance. Failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in our financial reporting and could harm our ability to manage our business. Reporting obligations as a public company can place a considerable strain on our financial and management systems, processes and controls, as well as on our personnel. In addition, we are required to document and test our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 so that our management can certify as to the effectiveness of our internal controls. If our management is ever unable to certify as to the effectiveness of our internal controls or if material weaknesses in our internal controls are ever identified, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, if we do not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis or to effectively manage our business. We self-insure for a significant portion of employee health insurance coverage and recent federal health care legislation could increase our expenses. In June 2011, we began to self-insure for a significant portion of employee health insurance coverage. When estimating our self-insured liabilities, which include employee health, property, general liability and workers’ compensation insurance at various levels, we consider a number of factors, including historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and valuations provided by independent third-party actuaries. Although we do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the estimates or assumptions we use to calculate our self-insurance liabilities, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may be exposed to losses or gains that could be material. This is particularly pertinent as it relates to employee health insurance, where our costs could be affected by seasonality and other factors, which could cause costs to vary widely and unpredictably from period to period. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “Act”) and the Health Care Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the “Reconciliation Act”) were signed into law. The Act, as modified by the Reconciliation Act, includes a large number of health care provisions to take effect over four years, including expanded dependent coverage, incentives for businesses to provide health care benefits, a prohibition on the denial of coverage and denial of claims on pre-existing conditions, a prohibition on limits on essential benefits and other expansions of health care benefits and coverage. The costs of these provisions are expected to be funded by a variety of taxes and fees. Some of the taxes and fees, as well as certain health care changes required by these acts, are expected to result, directly or indirectly, in increased health care costs for us. It remains difficult to predict the cost impact of health care reform and at this time, we cannot quantify the impact, if any, that the legislation may have on us due to the changing regulatory environment around this legislation and due to the government’s requirement to issue future unknown regulatory rules. There is no assurance that we will be able to absorb and/or pass through the costs of such legislation in a manner that will not adversely impact our results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Terrorist attacks, acts of war and foreign instability may harm our business. Terrorist attacks may cause damage or disruption to our employees, facilities, information systems, vendors and customers, which could significantly impact net sales, costs and expenses and financial condition. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks, political instability and conflict outside of the United States, and other acts of war or hostility may cause greater uncertainty and cause us to suffer in ways that we currently cannot predict. Our geographical focus in California, Nevada, Arizona and Utah may make us more vulnerable to such uncertainties than other comparable retailers who do not have similar geographical concentration. We rely on one distribution center and any disruption could reduce our sales. We currently rely on a single distribution center in Ontario, California. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption to this distribution center due to fire, earthquake or any other cause could damage a significant portion of our inventory and could materially impair both our ability to adequately stock our stores and our sales and profitability. We may pursue strategic acquisitions, which could have an adverse impact on our business. We may from time to time acquire complementary companies or businesses. Acquisitions may result in difficulties in assimilating acquired companies, and may result in the diversion of our capital and our management’s attention from other business issues and opportunities. We may not be able to successfully integrate operations that we acquire, including their personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general store operating procedures. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions, our business could suffer. In addition, the integration of any acquired business, and their financial results, into ours may adversely affect our operating results. We currently do not have any agreements with respect to any such acquisitions. Our comparable store sales will fluctuate and may not be a meaningful indicator of future performance. Changes in our comparable store sales results could affect the price of the shares of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. A number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable store sales results, including competition, our new store openings and remodeling, general regional and national economic conditions, actions taken by our competitors, consumer trends and preferences, changes in the shopping centers in which we are located, new merchandise introductions and changes in our merchandise mix, timing and effectiveness of promotional events, lack of new merchandise introductions to spur growth in the sale of various kinds of sports equipment, and weather. Our comparable store sales may vary from quarter to quarter, and an unanticipated decline in revenues or comparable store sales may cause the price of the shares of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock to fluctuate significantly. Poor performance of professional sports teams within our core markets could adversely affect our financial results. We sell professional sports team merchandise, the sale of which may be subject to fluctuations based on the success or failure of such teams. The poor performance by the professional sports teams within our core markets, as well as professional team lockouts and strikes, could adversely affect our financial results. In addition, to the extent we use sports superstars to market our products and advertise our stores, the retirement of such individuals or scandals in which they may be implicated could negatively impact our financial results. A regional or global health pandemic could severely affect our business. A health pandemic is a disease that spreads rapidly and widely by infection and affects many individuals in an area or population at the same time. If a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its location, duration and severity, our business could be severely affected. Customers might avoid public places in the event of a health pandemic, and local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or delay the spread of disease. A regional or 18 Table of Contents global health pandemic might also adversely impact our business by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of merchandise in our supply chain and by causing staffing shortages in our stores and among our vendors and service providers. Global warming could cause erosion of both our winter and summer seasonal businesses over a long-term basis. Changes to our environment, whether natural or man-made, could cause significant disruption in both air temperature and snowfall, limiting our ability to capitalize on one of our core competencies, the winter business. In addition, lack of proper snowfall could have a negative impact on our fishing and lake-focused water sports businesses, as these rely on streams, rivers, and lakes to be at adequate depth and clarity in order to provide enjoyable experiences for our customers. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 