Item 1A: Risk Factors You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this Risk Factors section and elsewhere in this annual report or in any other of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. In evaluating us, you should consider carefully, among other things, the factors and the specific risks set forth below and in documents we incorporate by reference. This annual report contains forward- looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and to our business. Other risks relate principally to the securities markets and ownership of our common shares. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected, the trading price of your shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to the Oil and Natural Gas Industry and Our Business Oil and natural gas prices are volatile. Volatility in oil and natural gas prices can adversely affect our results and the price of our common stock. This volatility also makes valuation of natural gas and oil producing properties difficult and can disrupt markets. Oil and natural gas prices have historically been, and are likely to continue to be, volatile. Oil and natural gas prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. Some of the factors that cause these fluctuations are: •demand for oil and gas, which is affected by worldwide population growth, economic development and general economic and business conditions; •the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; •political and economic uncertainty and socio-political unrest; •the price of foreign imports; •political and economic conditions in oil producing countries, especially the Middle East and South America; •the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ("OPEC") to set and maintain oil price and production controls; •the level of domestic and international exploration, drilling and production activity; •the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; •weather conditions and changes in weather patterns; •the price and availability of, and demand for, competing energy sources, including liquefied natural gas, and alternative energy source; •technological advances affecting energy consumption; •the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation, including environmental regulations; •availability, proximity and capacity of oil and gas pipelines and other transportation facilities; •the price and availability of alternative energy; and •variations between product prices at sales points and applicable index prices. 36 Table of Contents Additionally, continuance of the current low natural gas price environment, further declines in natural gas prices, lack of natural gas storage may have the following effects on our business: •reduction of our revenues, operating income and cash flows; •curtailment or shut-in of our natural gas production due to lack of transportation or storage capacity; •cause certain properties in our portfolio to become economically unviable; •cause significant reductions in our capital investment programs, resulting in a failure to develop our natural gas reserves; •limit our financial condition, liquidity, and/or ability to finance planned capital expenditures and operations; The long-term effects of these and other conditions on the prices of crude oil and natural gas are uncertain. Price volatility makes it difficult to budget and project the return on exploration and development projects involving our natural gas and oil properties and to estimate with precision the value of producing properties that we may own or propose to acquire. In addition, unusually volatile prices often disrupt the market for natural gas and oil properties, as buyers and sellers have more difficulty agreeing on the purchase price of properties. Our cash flow and results of operations depend to a great extent on the prevailing prices for crude oil and natural gas. Our annual and quarterly results of operations may fluctuate significantly as a result of, among other things, variations in natural gas and oil prices and production performance. In recent years, natural gas and oil price volatility has become increasingly severe. A decline in oil and natural gas prices would adversely affect our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations, financial commitments, financial results, cash flows, access to capital and ability to grow. Our revenues, operating results, cash flow, profitability and future rate of growth depend upon the prevailing prices of, and demand for, natural gas and oil. All of our operating revenues are derived from the sale of our oil and gas production. A continuing substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, our ability to meet capital expenditure obligations and commitments, our results of operations, our access to capital and the quantities of natural gas and oil that may be economically produced by us. A significant decrease in price levels for an extended period negatively affects us in several ways including: •our cash flow will be reduced, decreasing funds available for capital investments employed to replace reserves, increase production or to operate; •certain reserves will no longer be economic to produce, leading to both lower proved reserves and cash flow and may result in charges to earnings for impairment of the value of these assets; and •access to other sources of capital, such as bank loans, equity or debt markets, could be severely limited or unavailable. Based on crude and natural gas pricing in recent years, the Company's oil and gas revenues may from time to time decrease, resulting in a negative impact on liquidity. The Company's current plans to address lower crude and natural gas prices are primarily to reduce capital expenditures to a level equal to cash flow from operations, reduce operating expenses and seek additional capital financing. However, the Company's plans may not be successful in improving its results of operations and liquidity. If oil or natural gas prices decline significantly for extended periods of time in the future, we might not be able to generate enough cash flow from operations to meet our obligations and make 37 Table of Contents planned capital expenditures, which could impair our liquidity and our ability to develop our properties and to operate. We may not be able to drill wells on a substantial portion of our acreage. We may not be able to drill on a substantial portion of our acreage for various reasons. We may not generate or be able to raise sufficient capital to do so. Future deterioration in commodities pricing may also make drilling some acreage uneconomic. Our actual drilling activities and future drilling budget will depend on drilling results, oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, lease expirations, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, regulatory approvals and other factors. In addition, any drilling activities we are able to conduct may not be successful or add additional proved reserves to our overall proved reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our exploration, development, production and marketing operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels. Under these laws and regulations, we could be held liable for personal injuries, property damage (including site clean-up and restoration costs), and other damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may also result in the suspension or termination of our operations, or subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including the assessment of natural resources damages. Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations also increase the costs to plan, permit, design, drill, install, operate and abandon oil and natural gas wells. Moreover, public interest in environmental protection has increased in recent years, and environmental organizations have opposed, with some success, certain drilling projects. Compliance costs are significant. The exploration and production of oil and gas involves many risks concerning equipment and human operational problems that could lead to leaks or spills of petroleum products. These laws and regulations, particularly in the California and Rocky Mountain regions, are extensive and involve severe penalties and could change in ways that substantially increase our costs and associated liabilities. As a result, there can be no assurance that our anticipated production levels will be realized or that our estimates of proved reserves will not be negatively impacted. For example, during the first half of 2011, WTU oil production decreased primarily due to the inability to drill new water injection wells pending the receipt of permits from the California Division of Oil, Gas and Geothermal Resources ("DOGGR"). The DOGGR has continued to be slow to approve certain new injection permits and as a result we are unable to determine the pace we can develop the WTU until such permits are issued. Part of the regulatory environment in which we operate includes, in some cases, federal and state requirements for performing or preparing environmental assessments, environmental impact statements, studies, reports and/or plans of development before commencing exploration and production activities. These regulations affect our operations and may hinder or limit the quantity of oil and natural gas we may be able to produce and sell. A major risk inherent in our drilling plans is the need to obtain drilling permits from applicable federal, state and local authorities. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or drilling permits for producing and water injection wells, the failure to obtain a drilling permit for a well, or the receipt of a permit with excessive conditions or costs could have a material adverse effect on our ability to explore or develop our properties. Additionally, the oil and natural gas regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase the financial and managerial costs to comply with the requirements of these laws and regulations and, consequently, adversely affect our profitability. Furthermore, we may be put at a competitive disadvantage to larger companies in our industry that can spread these additional costs over a greater number of wells and larger operating area. Any or all of 38 Table of Contents these contingencies could delay or halt our drilling activities or the construction of ancillary facilities necessary for production, which would prevent us from developing our property interests as planned. Conditions, delays or restrictions imposed on the management of groundwater produced during drilling could severely limit our operations or make them uneconomic. Any unfavorable developments in the Wilmington Townlot Unit could impede our growth, as we intend to undertake significant activity in order to increase our production and reserves in this area. We cannot be certain that existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws or regulations will not harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, matters subject to regulation and the types of permits required include: •drilling permits; •water discharge and disposal permits for drilling operations; •the amounts and types of substances and materials that may be released into the environment; •drilling and operating bonds; •environmental matters and reclamation; •spacing of wells; •the permitting and use of underground injection wells, which affects the disposal of water from our wells; •occupational safety and health; •unitization and pooling of properties; •air quality, noise levels and related permits; •rights-of-way and easements; •reports concerning operations to regulatory authorities; •calculation and payment of royalties; •gathering, transportation and marketing of gas and oil; •taxation; and •waste disposal. Under these laws and regulations, we could be liable for: •personal injuries; •property damage; •oil spills; •discharge or disposal of hazardous materials; •well reclamation costs; •surface remediation and clean-up costs; •fines and penalties; •natural resource damages; and •other environmental protection and damages issues. 39 Table of Contents See "Items 1 and 2: Business and Properties—Regulations and Environmental Matters" and "Item 3:—Legal Proceedings" for a more detailed discussion of laws affecting our operations. Changes in applicable laws and regulations could increase our costs, reduce demand for our production, impede our ability to conduct operations or have other adverse effects on our business. Future changes in the laws and regulations to which we are subject may make it more difficult or expensive to conduct our operations and may have other adverse effects on us. For example, the EPA has issued a notice of finding and determination that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases ("GHG") present an endangerment to human health and the environment, which allows the EPA to begin regulating emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. The EPA has recently begun to implement GHG-related reporting and permitting rules. Similarly, the U.S. Congress is considering "cap and trade" legislation that would establish an economy-wide cap on emissions of GHGs in the United States and would require most sources of GHG emissions to obtain GHG emission "allowances" corresponding to their annual emissions of GHGs. On September 27, 2006, California's governor signed into law Assembly Bill (AB) 32, known as the "California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006," which establishes a statewide cap on GHGs that will reduce the state's GHG emissions to 1990 levels by 2020 and establishes a "cap and trade" program. The California Air Resources Board has been designated as the lead agency to establish and adopt regulations to implement AB 32 that commenced January 1, 2012. Similar regulations may be adopted by the federal government. Any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of GHGs would likely require us to incur increased operating costs and could have an adverse effect on demand for our production. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Reform Act, among other things, imposes restrictions on the use and trading of certain derivatives, including energy derivatives. The nature and scope of those restrictions will be determined in significant part through implementing regulations to be adopted by the SEC, the Commodities Futures Trading Commission and other regulators. If, as a result of the Reform Act or its implementing regulations, additional capital or margin requirements or other limitations relating to our commodity derivative activities are imposed, this could have an adverse effect on our ability to implement our hedging strategy. In particular, a requirement to post cash collateral in connection with our derivative positions, which are currently collateralized on a non-cash basis by our oil and natural gas properties and other assets, would likely make it impracticable to implement our current hedging strategy or to meet the hedging requirements contained in our revolving credit facility. In addition, requirements and limitations imposed on our derivative counterparties could increase the costs of pursuing our hedging strategy. In addition, some of our activities involve the use of hydraulic fracturing, which is a process that creates a fracture extending from the well bore in a rock formation to enable oil or natural gas to move more easily through the rock pores to a production well. Fractures are typically created through the injection of water and chemicals into the rock formation. Legislative and regulatory efforts at the federal level and in some states have been made to render permitting and compliance requirements more stringent for hydraulic fracturing. These proposals, if adopted, would likely increase our costs and make it more difficult, or impossible, to pursue some of our development projects. We could also be adversely affected by future changes to applicable tax laws and regulations. For example, proposals have been made to amend federal and/or California State and local laws to impose "windfall profits," severance or other taxes on oil and natural gas companies. If any of these proposals become law, our costs would increase, possibly materially. Significant financial difficulties currently facing the State of California and localities may increase the likelihood that one or more of these proposals will become law. For example, in California, there have been proposals at the legislative and executive levels over the past two years for tax increases which have included a severance tax as high as 12.5% on all oil production in California. Although the proposals have not passed the California 40 Table of Contents Legislature, the financial crisis in the State of California could lead to a severance tax on oil being imposed in the future President Obama has made proposals that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to United States tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could defer or eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred losses and may do so in the future. At December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of $275.1 million and total stockholders' equity of $193 million. We have recognized a significant amount of losses in the past. See "Item 6: Selected Consolidated Financial Data". The uncertainty and factors described throughout this section may impede our ability to economically find, develop, exploit and acquire natural gas and oil reserves. We may not achieve or sustain profitability or positive cash flows from operating activities in the future. Our proved reserves are estimates based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. No one can measure underground accumulations of oil and natural gas in an exact way. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves, including many factors beyond our control that could cause the quantities and net present value of our reserves to be overstated or understated. Oil and natural gas reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil and natural gas and assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, production levels, operating and development costs, drilling expenses, severance and excise taxes, capital expenditures, ownership and title matters, taxes and the availability of funds. The engineering process of estimating natural gas and oil reserves is complex and is not an exact science. It requires interpretations of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise. Estimates of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of expected timing and future net cash flows prepared or audited by different engineers, or by the same engineers at different times, may vary substantially. Because of the subjective nature of crude oil and natural gas reserve estimates, each of the following items may differ materially from the amounts or other factors estimated: •The amount and timing of crude oil and natural gas production; •The revenues and costs associated with that production; and •The amount and timing of future development expenditures. Over time, our independent petroleum engineering consultants may make material changes to reserve estimates taking into account the results of actual drilling, testing, and production. Further, the potential for future reserve revisions, either upward or downward, is significantly greater than normal because a significant portion of our potential reserves are undeveloped. In accordance with SEC requirements, our estimates of proved reserves for 2012 are determined based on a historical 12-month average price as of the first day of each month during the fiscal year. Any significant variance from these prices and costs could greatly affect our estimates of reserves. In addition, proved undeveloped reserves locations to limited to those scheduled to be drilled within the next five years 41 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, approximately 33% and 41%, respectively, of our estimated net proved reserves were undeveloped. Undeveloped reserves, by their nature, are less certain. Recovery of undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. Additionally, as oil and gas commodity prices become lower, the quantity of economically recoverable proved reserves declines. The reserve data assumes that we will make significant capital expenditures to develop our reserves. We have prepared estimates of our natural gas and oil reserves and the costs associated with these reserves in accordance with industry standards. However, the estimated costs may not be accurate, development may not occur as scheduled, or the actual results may not be as estimated. We may not have, or be able to obtain, the capital we need to develop these proved reserves. Actual natural gas and oil prices, future production, revenues, operating expenses, taxes, development expenditures and quantities of recoverable natural gas and oil reserves will most likely vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of future net revenues set forth in this annual report. A reduction in natural gas and oil prices, for example, would reduce the value of proved reserves and reduce the amount of natural gas and oil that could be economically produced, thereby reducing the quantity of reserves. We may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing natural gas and oil prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues referred to in this annual report is the current market value of our estimated natural gas and oil reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are generally based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Any change in consumption by natural gas and oil purchasers or in governmental regulations or taxation will also affect actual future net cash flows. The timing of both the production and the expenses for the development and production of our natural gas and oil properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves and their present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor, nor does it reflect discount factors used in the marketplace for the purchase and sale of oil and gas properties. Conditions in the oil and gas industry and oil and gas prices will affect whether the 10% discount factor accurately reflects the market value of our estimated reserves. The geographic concentration and characteristics of our oil reserves may have a greater effect on our ability to sell our oil production. All of our oil reserves are located in California. Any regional events, including price fluctuations, natural disasters and restrictive regulations that increase costs, reduce availability of equipment or supplies, reduce demand or limit our production may impact our operations more than if our reserves were more geographically diversified. Our California oil production is, on average, heavier than premium grade light oil and the margin (sales price minus production costs) is generally less than that of lighter oil sales due to the processes required to refine this type of oil and the transportation requirements. As such, the effect of material price decreases will more adversely affect the profitability of heavy oil production compared with lighter grades of oil. 42 Table of Contents Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage. As of December 31, 2012, we own leasehold interests in approximately 75,814 net acres in areas in the Washakie Basin of Wyoming that we believe may be prospective for CBM and approximately 72,000 net acres in areas we believe may be prospective for the Niobrara Shale. A large portion of our acreage is not currently held by production. Unless production in paying quantities is established on units containing these leases, approximately 1,580 net acres, 12,638 net acres and zero net acres of these shallow leases will expire in 2013, 2014 and 2015. If our leases expire, we will lose our right to develop the related properties, and could lose up to 48,651 net acres of shallow rights and 55,868 net acres of deep rights in 2015. (See "Natural Gas and Oil Acreage"). Our drilling plans for these areas are subject to change based upon various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including drilling results, oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, and regulatory approvals. Further, some of our acreage is located in sections where we do not hold the majority of the acreage and therefore it is likely that we will not be named operator of these sections. As a non-operating leaseholder we have less control over the timing of drilling and there is therefore additional risk of expirations occurring in sections where we are not the operator. Drilling for and producing natural gas and oil are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future success depends largely on the success of our exploration, exploitation, development and production activities. These activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that we will not find any commercially productive natural gas or oil reservoirs. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties depends in part on the evaluation of geophysical and geological analyses, production data, and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Our costs of drilling, completing, producing and operating wells are often uncertain before drilling commences. Drilling for oil and natural gas can be unprofitable, not only from dry holes, but from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to return a profit. In addition, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including: •delays in obtaining drilling permits from applicable regulatory authorities; •unusual or unexpected geological formations; •unexpected drilling conditions, including ground shifting or quakes; •pressure or irregularities in geological formations; •equipment failures or accidents; •well blow-outs; •fires and explosions; •pipeline and processing interruptions or unavailability; •title problems; •objections from surface owners and nearby surface owners in the areas where we operate; •adverse weather conditions; •lack of market demand for natural gas and oil; 43 Table of Contents •delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with environmental and other regulatory requirements; •shortages of or delays in the availability or delivery of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment; and •reductions in natural gas and oil prices. Our future drilling activities may not be successful. Our drilling success rate could decline generally or within a particular area and we could incur losses by drilling unproductive wells. Also, we may not be able to obtain sufficient contracts covering our lease rights in potential drilling locations. We cannot be sure that we will ever drill our identified potential drilling locations, or that we will produce natural gas or oil from them or from any other potential drilling locations. Shut-in wells, curtailed production and other production interruptions may negatively impact our business and result in decreased revenues. All of our oil production is dedicated to one customer and as a result, our credit exposure to this customer is significant. We have entered into an oil marketing arrangement with Phillips 66 Company (formerly ConocoPhillips) under which Phillips 66 Company purchases all of our net oil production in California. We generally do not require letters of credit or other collateral to support these trade receivables. Accordingly, a material adverse change in their financial condition could adversely impact our ability to collect the applicable receivables, and thereby affect our financial condition. Our credit facility contains operating restrictions and financial covenants, and we may have difficulty obtaining additional credit. We will depend on our revolving credit facility for a portion of our future capital needs. As of December 31, 2012, we had $99.5 million in principal amount of senior indebtedness outstanding under our secured revolving bank Credit Facility and our available borrowing base was $140 million. Our Credit Facility restricts our ability to obtain additional financing, make investments, pay dividends, lease equipment, sell assets and engage in business combinations. We also are, and will continue to be, required to comply with certain financial covenants and ratios. The Credit Facility contains affirmative and negative covenants, including the following financial maintenance covenants: an EBITDAX to interest coverage ratio for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters to be not less than 2.5 to 1.0, determined as of the last day of each fiscal quarter; and a minimum current ratio of current assets (including availability under the Credit Facility) to current liabilities of not less than 1.0 to 1.0. At December 31, 2012, the Company was in full compliance with the covenants and other provisions of the Credit Facility. In addition to those described above, other factors may impair the Company's ability to comply with the covenants. Any failure to be in compliance with any material provision or covenant of the Credit Facility could result in a default, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. At certain oil and natural gas price levels, the Company's current cost structure, inclusive of our current plans, may exceed the costs required to operate profitably. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants in the future is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and events or circumstances beyond our control. Our failure to comply with any of the restrictions and covenants contained in the Credit Facility could result in a default under the facility, which could cause all of our existing indebtedness to become immediately due and payable. Our Credit Facility limits the funds we can borrow to a borrowing base amount, determined by the lenders in their sole discretion, based upon projected revenues from the oil and natural gas properties 44 Table of Contents securing our loan. In addition, under the terms of our credit facility, our borrowing base is subject to redeterminations at least semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 of each year based in part on prevailing natural gas and oil prices. The lenders can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under the revolving credit facility. Any increase in the borrowing base requires the consent of the lenders holding 100% of the commitments. If the required lenders do not agree on an increase, then the borrowing base will be the lowest borrowing base acceptable to the required number of lenders. In the event the borrowed amount outstanding exceeds the re-determined borrowing base, we could be forced to repay a portion of our borrowings. If lower oil and natural gas commodity prices occur, our borrowing base may be lowered by the lenders upon a future borrowing base re-determination. We may not have sufficient funds to make any required repayment. If we do not have sufficient funds and are otherwise unable to negotiate renewals of our borrowings or arrange new financing, in order to prevent a default we may have to sell a portion of our assets. If we cannot timely sell a portion of our assets under such circumstances, the lenders could declare the Credit Facility in default, which could cause all of our existing indebtedness to be immediately due and payable. Our Credit Facility is secured by a pledge of substantially all of our producing natural gas and oil properties and assets, is guaranteed by our subsidiaries, and contains covenants that limit additional borrowings, dividends to nonpreferred shareholders, the incurrence of liens, investments, sales or pledges of assets, changes in control, repurchases or redemptions for cash of our common or preferred stock, speculative commodity transactions and other matters. We may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing, particularly in view of the credit facility's restrictions on our ability to incur additional debt, and the fact that substantially all of our assets are currently pledged to secure obligations under the Credit Facility. The restrictions in our credit facility and our difficulty in obtaining additional debt financing may have adverse consequences on our operations and financial results, including: •our ability to obtain financing for working capital, capital expenditures, our drilling program, purchases of new technology or other purposes may be impaired; •the covenants in our credit facility that limit our ability to borrow additional funds and dispose of assets may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions; •because our indebtedness is subject to variable interest rates, we are vulnerable to increases in interest rates; •any additional financing we obtain may be on unfavorable terms; •we may be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow to make debt service payments, which will reduce the funds that would otherwise be available for operations and future business opportunities; •a substantial decrease in our operating cash flow or an increase in our expenses could make it difficult for us to meet debt service requirements or covenants, and could require us to modify our operations, including curtailing portions of our drilling program, selling assets, reducing our capital expenditures, refinancing all or a portion of our existing debt or obtaining additional financing; and •we may become more vulnerable to downturns in our business or the economy generally. We may be required to incur additional debt in order to fund our exploration and development activities. A higher level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and reduce our level of indebtedness depends on future 45 Table of Contents performance. General economic conditions, natural gas and oil prices and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, affect our operations and our future performance. We are subject to the full cost ceiling limitation which may result in a write-down of our estimated net reserves in the future. We utilize the full cost method of accounting for costs related to our natural gas and oil properties. Under the full cost method, we are subject to quarterly calculations of a "ceiling" or limitation on the amount of our oil and gas properties that can be capitalized on our balance sheet. If the net capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties exceed the cost center ceiling, we are subject to a write-down of our net oil and gas properties to the extent of such excess. A capitalized cost ceiling test impairment also reduces earnings and impacts stockholders' equity in the period of occurrence and results in lower amortization expense in future periods. The discounted present value of our proved reserves is a major component of the ceiling calculation and represents the component that requires the most subjective judgments. For 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009, there was no ceiling test impairment on our oil and gas properties. The risk that we will be required to write down the carrying value of oil and natural gas properties increases when natural gas and crude oil prices are depressed or volatile. In addition, a write-down of proved oil and natural gas properties may occur if we experience substantial downward adjustments in our estimated proved reserves, or if purchasers cancel long-term contracts for our natural gas production. An expense recorded in one period may not be reversed in a subsequent period even though higher natural gas and crude oil prices may have increased the applicable ceiling in the subsequent period. This and other factors could cause us to write down our natural gas and oil properties or other assets in the future and incur a non-cash charge against future earnings. Our development and exploration operations require substantial capital and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a loss of properties and a decline in our natural gas and oil reserves. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We spend and will continue to need a substantial amount of capital for the acquisition, exploration, exploitation, development and production of oil and gas reserves. We have historically addressed our short and long-term liquidity needs through the use of cash flow provided by operating activities, borrowing under bank credit facilities, and the issuance of equity and debt securities. Without adequate financing we may not be able to successfully execute our operating strategy. The availability of these sources of capital will depend upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: •general economic and financial market conditions; •oil and natural gas prices; •our market value and operating performance; •timely issuance of permits and licenses by governmental agencies; •the success of our CBM projects in the Washakie Basin; •the success of our waterflood recovery oil projects in the Wilmington Townlot Unit and the North Wilmington Unit; •our success in locating and producing new reserves; •amounts of necessary working capital and expenses; and •the level of production from existing and new wells. 46 Table of Contents We may be unable to execute our operating strategy if we cannot obtain adequate capital. If low oil and natural gas prices, lack of adequate gathering or transportation facilities, operating difficulties or other factors, many of which are beyond our control, cause our revenues and cash flows from operating activities to decrease, it may limit or reduce our borrowing base under our credit facility, and therefore, limit our ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations. Additional financing sources may be required in the future to fund our developmental and exploratory drilling. Our Credit Facility restricts our ability to obtain new financing. There can be no assurance as to the availability or terms of any additional financing. Issuing equity securities to satisfy our financing requirements could cause substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. Additional debt financing could lead to: •a substantial portion of our operating cash flow being dedicated to the payment of principal and interest; •becoming more vulnerable to competitive pressures and economic downturns; and •restrictions on our operations. Financing may not be available in the future under existing or new financing arrangements, or we may not be able to obtain the necessary financing on acceptable terms, if at all. If sufficient capital resources are not available, we may be forced to curtail our drilling, acquisition and other operations, or be forced to sell some of our assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis, or face a possible loss of properties and a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves, which would have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future success depends on our ability to find, develop or acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Our proved reserves generally decline when production occurs unless we conduct successful exploration or development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. We may not be able to find, develop or acquire additional reserves on an economic basis. Furthermore, if oil and natural gas prices increase, our costs for additional reserves could also increase. Thus, our future oil and natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, our cash flow and income are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find, finance or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs. Our identified drilling location inventories are scheduled out over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. Our management has specifically identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These identified drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, oil and natural gas prices, costs and expenses, and drilling and production results. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the numerous potential drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled, or if we will be able to produce natural gas or oil from these or any other potential drilling locations. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could adversely affect our business. 47 Table of Contents We face significantly increasing water injection and disposal regulations and costs in our drilling operations. In California, as part of our waterflood development plan for the WTU and NWU, over the next 3 to 5 years we will require 30 to 50 water injection well approvals from the California DOGGR. We believe that due to the DOGGR's personnel constraints and new more rigid review and interpretation procedures, water injection permits have been taking longer than previous permits. During 2011, Warren only received one water injection permit for a WTU Tar formation well. Further, due to the volume of water being injected into the Upper Terminal formation and the corresponding rise in reservoir pressure, during 2011, we have elected to temporarily shut-in approximately 300 net BOPD (approximately 110,000 barrels of oil annually) from lower producing, higher water-cut wells, until additional water injection well permits are obtained for the Tar and Ranger formations. Additionally, as a result of the delay in receiving water injection permits, the reservoir pressure in the Tar formation has dropped, resulting in a steeper production decline. A new head of DOGGR was appointed in November 2011, and since then DOGGR has switched to a more practical, risk-based evaluation, resulting in timelier reviews of applications for injection permits. During 2012, Warren received 5 permits for water injection wells in the WTU Upper Terminal formation, one permit for a water injection well in the Tar formation, and approval of the southwest Ranger area of review, including permits for up to 8 water injection wells in the Ranger formation. We cannot be certain, however, of when the DOGGR will issue the other WTU water injection permits for our other pending applications. The Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality, or Wyoming DEQ, has restrictive regulations applicable to the surface disposal of water produced from our CBM drilling operations. We typically obtain Clean Water Act, Safe Drinking Water Act and analogous state and local permits to use surface discharge methods, such as settling ponds, to dispose of water when the groundwater produced from the coal seams will not exceed surface discharge permit limitations. Surface disposal options have volumetric limitations and require an extensive third-party water sampling and laboratory analysis program to ensure compliance with state permit standards. Alternative methods to surface disposal of water are more expensive. These alternatives include installing and operating treatment facilities or drilling disposal wells to inject the produced water into the underground rock formations adjacent to the coal seams or lower sandstone horizons. Injection wells are regulated by the Wyoming DEQ and the Wyoming Oil & Gas Conservation Commission, and permits to drill these wells are obtained from these agencies. Based on our experience with CBM production, we believe that permits for surface discharge of produced water in the Washakie Basin will become difficult to obtain. In Wyoming, our produced water is currently re-injected into water disposal wells. We expect the regulation and costs to dispose of produced water to increase significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face increasing natural gas disposal regulations and costs in our Wilmington oil operations that could limit our oil production. The State of California and the EPA have restrictive regulations for the disposition of natural gas produced from our Wilmington oil drilling operations. Natural gas production has continued to grow with the oil production, particularly at the WTU. Because the gas volume from the WTU was historically too low to justify gas sales equipment, the gas has been flared for many years under a permit from the SCAQMD. In late 2007, Warren entered into an agreement with the SCAQMD which allowed Warren to commission six microturbines to generate electrical power from the otherwise flared gas and resume full production. As oil production grew since that time, the excess gas produced but not consumed by our microturbines could have exceeded our gas flare limitation. In March 2008, the Company presented its plan to the SCAQMD to seek approvals from regulatory authorities to dispose of our WTU produced gas by re-injection in underground formations or by selling it directly to a nearby public utility or a third party user. Warren also applied to the SCAQMD for a permit to 48 Table of Contents construct a new high efficiency clean enclosed burner to replace the existing gas flare. Our filed applications for permits request the authority to install and operate certain pieces of new best available control technology equipment. On July 19, 2011 the SCAQMD certified the Company's CEQA documents and issued all of the related permits, including gas handling equipment. These equipment upgrades will help increase the Company's oil processing capability to a ceiling of 5,000 barrels of oil per day at the Wilmington Townlot Unit. As requested by the SCAQMD, the Company is currently preparing additional analysis under CEQA to analyze and mitigate the potential air and other emissions that may be associated with pipeline connections and installation of gas transportation, compression and related equipment that will be required to sell excess gas to a local gas utility company. Delays by regulatory agencies in approving our permits in the future to dispose of the natural gas could limit our future oil production levels until the permits are issued. See "Items 1 and 2: Business and Properties—Future Regulations—Wilmington Field" Operational impediments may hinder our access to natural gas and oil markets or delay our production. The marketability of our production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, natural gas gathering systems and processing facilities. This dependence is heightened in our CBM operations where this infrastructure is less developed than in our traditional oil and gas operations. For example, there is limited pipeline capacity in the southern portion of the Washakie Basin. Also, as production volumes grow in the Atlantic Rim, additional pipeline capacity and gas compression will be required. We deliver natural gas and oil through gathering systems and pipelines that we do not own. These facilities may not be available to us in the future. Our ability to produce and market natural gas and oil is affected and may be harmed by: •the lack of pipeline transmission facilities or carrying capacity; •federal and state regulation of natural gas and oil production; and •federal and state transportation, taxation and energy policies. As of December 31, 2012, we own 100% of the compression facilities and pipeline in the Washakie Basin, Wyoming. Any significant change in pipeline or compression operations or other market factors affecting our overall infrastructure facilities could adversely impact our ability to deliver the natural gas we produce to market in an efficient manner, or to obtain adequate natural gas prices. In some cases, we may be required to shut-in wells, at least temporarily, for lack of a market or because of the inadequacy or unavailability of transportation facilities. If that were to occur, we would be unable to realize revenue from those wells until arrangements could be made to deliver our production to market. We may be affected by climate change and market or regulatory responses to climate change Climate change, including the impact of global warming, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gasses, including exhaust from generators, engines and flaring of excess natural gas, could significantly increase our operating costs. Restrictions on emissions could also affect our customers that (a) use oil and gas to produce energy, or (b) manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of energy or burn fossil fuels, including chemical producers, farmers and food producers, and automakers and other manufacturers. Significant cost increases, government regulation, or changes of consumer preferences for goods or services relating to alternative sources of energy or emissions reductions could materially affect the markets for the oil and gas commodities, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Government incentives encouraging the use of alternative sources of energy could also affect 49 Table of Contents certain of our oil and gas commodity purchasers and the markets for certain of the commodities in an unpredictable manner, including, for example, the impacts of ethanol incentives on farming and ethanol producers and tax credits for wind turbine and solar power generation. Finally, we could face increased costs related to defending and resolving legal claims and other litigation related to climate change and the alleged impact of our operations on climate change. Any of these factors, individually or in operation with one or more of the other factors, or other unforeseen impacts of climate change could reduce the demand for oil and gas commodities and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Our hedging activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our income. To achieve a more predictable cash flow, to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas and to comply with credit agreement requirements, we currently, and may in the future, enter into hedging arrangements for a portion of our oil and natural gas production. Hedging arrangements for a portion of our oil and natural gas production expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when: •production is less than expected; •the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on its contractual obligations; or •there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual price received. In addition, these types of hedging arrangements limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for oil and natural gas and may expose us to cash margin requirements. The risk that a counterparty may default on its obligations is heightened by the recent sub-prime mortgage losses incurred by many banks and other financial institutions, including our counterparties or their affiliates. These losses may affect the ability of the counterparties to meet their obligations to us on hedge transactions, which would reduce our revenues from hedges at a time when we are also receiving a lower price for our natural gas and oil sales. As a result, our financial condition could be materially or adversely affected. We have elected not to designate our commodity derivatives as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. Accordingly, such contracts are recorded at fair value on our Balance Sheet and changes in fair value are recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as they occur. We may incur additional debt in order to fund our exploration and development activities, which would reduce our financial flexibility and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition to our credit facility, we may incur additional debt in order to fund our operations, make future acquisitions or develop our properties. A higher level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and reduce our level of indebtedness depends on future performance. General economic conditions, oil and gas prices, and financial, business and other factors affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our debt or pay our debt at maturity. If we are unable to repay our debt at maturity with existing cash on hand, we could attempt to refinance the debt or repay the debt with the proceeds of a debt or equity offering. We may be unable to sell public debt or equity securities, or do so on acceptable terms to pay or refinance the debt. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of our capital stock or a refinancing of our debt include financial market conditions, our market value and profitability of our operations at the time of the offering or other financing. If we do not have sufficient funds, are otherwise unable to negotiate renewals of our borrowings, or arrange new 50 Table of Contents financing, we may have to sell significant assets. Any such sale could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Properties that we buy may not produce as projected, and we may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against them, which could cause us to incur losses. One of our growth strategies is to pursue selective acquisitions of natural gas and oil reserves. We perform a review of the target properties that we believe is consistent with industry practices. However, these reviews may not be completely accurate. Generally, it is not feasible to review in depth every individual property involved in each acquisition. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable, even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, a seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of those problems, and we often assume environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with the properties we acquire. Seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in some of the areas where we operate. Oil and natural gas operations in the Rocky Mountains can be adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations designed to protect various wildlife. Our operations in Wyoming are conducted in areas subject to extreme weather conditions and in difficult terrain. Primarily in the winter and spring, our operations are often curtailed because of cold, snow and wet conditions, as well as lease stipulations. In certain areas on federal lands, drilling and other oil and natural gas activities can only be conducted during limited times of the year. This limits our ability to operate in those areas and can intensify competition during those times for drilling rigs, oil field equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See "Items 1 and 2: Business and Properties—Glossary of Abbreviations and Terms—Identified drilling locations". As co-venturer in joint ventures, we are liable for various obligations of those joint ventures. As a co-venturer, we are contingently liable for the obligations of the joint venture, including responsibility for day-to-day operations and liabilities which cannot be repaid from joint venture assets, insurance proceeds or indemnification by others. In the future, we might be exposed to litigation in connection with joint venture activities, or find it necessary to advance funds on behalf of joint ventures to protect the value of the natural gas and oil properties by drilling wells to produce undeveloped reserves or to pay lease operating expenses in excess of production. These activities may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our role as co-venturer in joint ventures may result in conflicts of interest, which may not be resolved in our best interests or the best interests of our stockholders. Our role as co-venturer in joint ventures may result in conflicts of interest between the interests of those entities and our stockholders. Any resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interests. 51 Table of Contents The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business. We depend to a large extent on the efforts and continued employment of our executive management team and other key personnel. The loss of the services of these or other key personnel could adversely affect our business, and we do not maintain key man insurance on the lives of many of these persons. We depend to a large extent on the efforts and continued employment of Philip A. Epstein, our chief executive officer and chairman and Timothy A. Larkin, our executive vice president and chief financial officer, and other key management and technical personnel. We maintain key person life insurance on Mr. Larkin but generally not on other key management and technical personnel. Our drilling success and the success of other activities integral to our operations will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced geologists, engineers, landmen and other professionals. Competition for many of these professionals is intense. If we cannot retain our technical personnel or attract additional experienced technical personnel and professionals, our ability to compete could be harmed. We do not insure against all potential operating risks. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of various lawsuits, which may not be fully covered by our insurance. Our insurance coverage does not cover all potential risks, losses, costs, or liabilities. We ordinarily maintain insurance against various losses and liabilities arising from our operations in accordance with customary industry practices and in amounts that management believes to be prudent. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our operations could be subject to earthquakes, mudslides, fires, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, floods, hurricanes, extreme weather conditions and other natural or manmade disasters or business interruptions, for which we are predominantly self-insured. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our Long Beach, California regional operations and a substantial portion of oil properties are located in southern California near major earthquake faults. Our revenues and income could be adversely affected if our operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, environmental, public health, or political issues. The ultimate impact on us of being located near major earthquake faults and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown, but our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer in the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster. Our natural gas and oil exploration and production activities are subject to numerous hazards and risks associated with drilling for, operating, producing and transporting natural gas and oil, and any of these risks can cause substantial losses resulting from: •environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of natural gas, oil, brine water, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination; •abnormally pressured formations and ground subsidence; •mechanical difficulties, inadequate oil field drilling and service tools, and casing collapses; •fires and explosions; •personal injuries and death; •labor and employment; 52 Table of Contents •regulatory investigations and penalties; and •natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses to us. Many of these risks are not insured as the cost of available insurance, if any, is excessive. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. If a significant accident or other event occurs that is not fully covered by insurance, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See "Items 1 and 2: Business and Properties—Operating Hazards and Insurance". We have limited control over activities on properties we do not operate, which could reduce our production and revenues. A substantial amount of our business activities are conducted through joint operating or other agreements under which we own partial ownership or working interests in natural gas and oil properties. We do not operate all of the properties in which we have an interest and in many cases we do not have the ability to remove the operator in the event of poor performance. As a result, we have a limited ability to exercise influence over normal operating procedures, expenditures or future development of underlying properties and their associated costs. The failure of an operator of our wells to adequately perform operations, or an operator's breach of the applicable agreements, could reduce our revenues and production. Therefore, the success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others depends upon a number of factors outside of our and the operator's control, including: •timing and amount of capital expenditures; •expertise and financial resources; •inclusion of other participants in drilling wells; and •use of technology. Defects in the title to any of our natural gas and oil interests could result in the loss of some of our natural gas and oil properties or portions thereof, or liability for losses resulting from defects in the assignment of leasehold rights. We obtain interests in natural gas and oil properties with varying degrees of warranty of title, such as general, special or quitclaim or without any warranty. We acquired our interests in the Wilmington Townlot Unit in 1999 and 2005 with no title opinion as to the interests acquired, which may ultimately prove to be less than the interests we believe we own. The prior owner had acquired its interests from a third party that, in turn, had acquired its interest from Exxon Corporation with no warranty of title. Exxon had owned the Wilmington Townlot Unit for over 25 years before its sale in 1997. Similarly, when we acquired our interest in the North Wilmington Unit in December 2005, we had no title opinion prepared as to the interests acquired. The prior owner had owned the North Wilmington Unit for over 15 years, acquired the North Wilmington Unit from Sun Oil Corporation without warranty of title, which had owned unit for over 20 years before its sale in 1990. Losses of title to the Wilmington Townlot Unit or North Wilmington Units may result from title defects or from ownership of a lesser interest than we believe we acquired. In other instances, title opinions may not be obtained if in our discretion it would be uneconomical or impractical to do so. This increases the possible risk of loss and could result in total loss of title to some or all of the properties we purchased. Furthermore, in certain instances we may determine to purchase properties even though certain technical title defects exist if we believe it to be an acceptable risk under the circumstances. 53 Table of Contents Prospects that we decide to drill may not yield natural gas or oil in commercially viable quantities. A prospect is a property on which we have identified what our geoscientists believe, based on available seismic and geological information, to be indications of natural gas or oil. Our prospects are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a prospect that is ready to drill to a prospect that will require substantial additional seismic data processing and interpretation. However, the use of seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling and testing whether natural gas or oil will be present or, if present, whether natural gas or oil will be present in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. If we drill wells in our current and future prospects that are identified as non-economic or dry holes, our drilling success rate may decline and materially harm our business. In sum, the cost of drilling, completing and operating any wells is often uncertain and new wells may not be productive. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, and many of our competitors have greater financial, technological and other resources than we do, which may adversely affect our ability to compete. We operate in highly competitive areas of oil and natural gas exploration, development and acquisition with a substantial number of other companies. We face intense competition from independent, technology-driven companies, as well as from both major and other independent oil and gas companies, in each of the following areas: •acquiring desirable producing properties or new leases for future exploration; •marketing our natural gas and oil production; •integrating new technologies; and •acquiring the equipment, personnel and expertise necessary to develop and operate our properties. Many of our competitors have financial, managerial, technological and other resources substantially greater than ours. These companies may be able to pay more for exploratory prospects and productive oil and gas properties, and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. To the extent our competitors are able to pay more for properties than we are, we will be at a competitive disadvantage. Further, many of our competitors may enjoy technological advantages and may be able to implement new technologies more rapidly than we can. Our ability to explore for natural gas and oil and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend upon our ability to successfully conduct operations, implement advanced technologies, evaluate and select suitable properties, and consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. Shortages of rigs, equipment, supplies and personnel could delay or otherwise adversely affect our cost of operations or our ability to operate according to our business plans. If domestic drilling activity increases, particularly in the fields in which we operate, a general shortage of drilling and completion rigs, field equipment and qualified personnel could develop. As a result, the costs and delivery times of rigs, equipment and personnel could be substantially greater than in previous years. From time to time, these costs have sharply increased and could do so again. The demand for and wage rates of qualified drilling rig crews generally rises in response to the increasing number of active rigs in service and could increase sharply in the event of a shortage. Although Warren owns a drilling rig for use in the WTU, shortages of drilling and completion rigs, field equipment or qualified personnel could delay, restrict or curtail our exploration and development operations, which could in turn harm our operating results. 54 Table of Contents Increases in taxes on energy sources may adversely affect the company's operations. Federal, state and local governments which have jurisdiction in areas where the company operates impose taxes on the oil and natural gas products sold. Historically, there has been an on-going consideration by federal, state and local officials concerning a variety of energy tax proposals. As an example, there was a proposal in California in 2012 to impose a 12.5% severance tax on oil produced in California, which did not pass. Such matters are beyond the company's ability to accurately predict or control. Computer security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of our business, Warren collects and stores sensitive data, including intellectual property, its proprietary business information, information about its customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information about its oil and gas lease lessors/royalty holders and its employees in our computer data centers and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations, and damage our reputation, which could adversely affect our business. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock The number of shares eligible for future sale or which have registration rights could adversely affect the future market for our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of previously restricted shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline, or could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional common or preferred stock. As of December 31, 2012, we had 72,440,898 shares of common stock issued, 43,423 shares of common stock were issuable upon conversion of our convertible debt and convertible preferred stock, 1,989,309 shares of common stock were issuable upon exercise of outstanding options, and 1,606,460 shares of restricted stock are issuable upon vesting. Our directors and executive officers, beneficially hold approximately 5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. If our stockholders sell significant amounts of common stock in any public market that develops or exercise their registration rights and sell a large number of shares, the price of our common stock could be negatively affected. If we were to include shares held by those holders in a registration statement pursuant to the exercise of their registration rights, those sales could impair our ability to raise needed capital by depressing the price at which we could sell our common stock or impede such an offering altogether. Our stock price has been and may be volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value. In recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Our common stock has and may continue to experience volatility unrelated to our operating performance for reasons that include: •domestic and worldwide supplies and prices of and demand for natural gas and oil; 55 Table of Contents •political conditions in natural gas and oil producing regions; •the success of our operating strategy; •war and acts of terrorism; •demand for our common stock; •revenue and operating results failing to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in any particular quarter or period; •changes in expectations of our future financial performance, or changes in financial estimates, if any, of public market analysts; •investor perception of our industry or our prospects; •general economic trends; •limited trading volume of our stock; •changes in and compliance with environmental and other governmental rules and regulations; •actual or anticipated quarterly variations in our operating results; •our involvement in litigation; •conditions generally affecting the oil and natural gas industry; •the prices of oil and natural gas; •announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors; •our liquidity; and •our ability to obtain or raise additional funds. Many of these factors are beyond our control, and we cannot predict their potential effects on the price of our common stock. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. In addition, the stock markets in general can experience considerable price and volume fluctuations. Control by our executive officers and directors may limit your ability to influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval and could discourage our potential acquisition by third parties. As of March 5, 2013, our executive officers and directors beneficially owned approximately 6% of our common stock. These stockholders, if acting together, would be able to influence significantly all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of our board of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their shares of our common stock. Provisions in our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Maryland law may make it more difficult to effect a change in control, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Maryland law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. We may issue shares of preferred stock in the future without stockholder approval and upon such terms as our board of directors may determine. Our issuance of this preferred stock could have the effect of making it 56 Table of Contents more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding stock and potentially prevent the payment of a premium to stockholders in an acquisition. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change in control of us or our management. These provisions include: •giving the board the exclusive right to fill all board vacancies; •providing that special meetings of stockholders may only be called by the board pursuant to a resolution adopted by •a majority of the board, either upon a motion or upon written request by holders of at least 662/3% of the voting power of the shares entitled to vote, or •by our president; •a classified board of directors; •permitting removal of directors only for cause and with a super-majority vote of the stockholders; and •prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors. These provisions also could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. As a result, these provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, and may limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We are also subject to provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law that prohibit business combinations with persons owning 10% or more of the voting shares of a corporation's outstanding stock, unless the combination is approved by the board of directors prior to the person owning 10% or more of the stock, for a period of five years, after which the business combination would be subject to special stockholder approval requirements. This provision could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company, or may otherwise discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control from us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Under the terms of our convertible preferred stock, we may not pay dividends on our common stock unless all accrued dividends on our convertible preferred stock have been paid. We anticipate that we will retain all future earnings and other cash resources for the future operation and development of our business. Accordingly, we do not intend to declare or pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account many factors, including our operating results, financial conditions, current and anticipated cash needs and plans for expansion. We make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of Warren's Consolidated Financial Statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In connection with the preparation of Warren's Consolidated Financial Statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. Our most critical accounting estimates are described in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in this report. In addition, as discussed in Note A to the Consolidated 57 Table of Contents Financial Statements, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. While we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Failure of the Company's internal control over financial reporting could harm its business and financial results. The management of Warren is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the Company's transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary for preparation of the financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures are made in accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements would be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of the Company's financial statements would be prevented or detected. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit the Company's ability to report its financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 