Item 1A. Risk Factors Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. We are engaged in litigation, including patent litigation, and a court could determine that our products could infringe the intellectual property rights of others and may require us to pay substantial damages or prohibit us from selling our products. We are involved in numerous litigation proceedings with counterparties that allege we infringe certain patents held by them. A court may determine that patents held by third parties are valid and infringed by us and we may be required to: · pay damages, including up to treble damages and the other party’s attorney’s fees, which may be substantial; · cease the development, manufacture, use and sale of products that infringe the patent rights of others, through a court-imposed injunction; · expend significant resources to redesign our technology so that it does not infringe others’ patent rights, or to develop or acquire non-infringing intellectual property, which may not be possible; · discontinue manufacturing or other processes incorporating infringing technology; · pay royalties, including back royalties for products already sold; and/or · obtain licenses to the infringed intellectual property, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if infringement claims against us are without merit, defending a lawsuit takes significant time, is expensive, and may divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Any significant adverse ruling in one of our litigation matters may have a negative effect on our operations and cause our stock price to decline. It is possible that we may be forced to pay damages to CytoLogix which exceed the amounts we have reserved. We have been involved in litigation with CytoLogix, Inc., pursuant to which a jury determined that we infringed certain CytoLogix patents—see Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings. The patents in question relate to prior versions of our BenchMark and DISCOVERY instruments and do not apply to the current versions of the BenchMark XT/LT and DISCOVERY XT instruments; however, these instruments are subject to separate litigation. In September 2005, the Court of Appeals upheld certain of the jury findings of patent infringement, and the case is expected to proceed to trial on the issue of damages. We have accrued a liability of $5.0 million in this regard. At trial, CytoLogix may advance arguments for damages several times higher than the amount we have accrued. In view of the complexity of this case and the inherent uncertainty of patent infringement litigation, there is a possibility the amount of damages paid to CytoLogix may be substantially different from the $5.0 million we have accrued and if substantial, could cause the price of our stock to decline. 11 Table of Contents Our future growth depends on our ability to develop and successfully introduce new products, product extensions and improvements to existing products to address unmet patient and market needs. Our future growth is dependent upon, among other factors, our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, sell and achieve market acceptance of new products, product extensions and improvements to our existing products. The extent of, and rate at which, market acceptance and penetration are achieved by future products is a function of many variables. These variables include price, safety, efficacy, reliability, marketing and sales efforts, the availability of third-party reimbursement for our new products, the existence of competing products and general economic conditions affecting purchasing patterns. Our ability to market and sell new products, product extensions and improvements to our existing products may also be subject to government regulation, including clearance/approval by the FDA and foreign government agencies. Any failure in our ability to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, sell and achieve market acceptance of our new products, product extensions or improvements to our existing products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and our business. We face significant competition and may not be able to compete effectively. We compete with companies ranging from other multinationals to small start-ups. Competition takes many forms, including the development of new products by competitors having lower prices or superior performance or that are otherwise competitive with our current products, patents and registrations obtained by competitors, and business combinations among our competitors or major customers. Our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical as the result of this competition. Our failure to compete effectively could cause us to lose market share to our competitors and/or have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. If our customers do not receive adequate third-party reimbursement, our products may not be accepted in the market. In the United States, our products are primarily purchased by medical institutions and laboratories that bill third-party payers, such as government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers, managed care organizations, and other similar organizations. Our ability to effectively market our products will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for our products and related treatments will be available to our customers from third-party payers. Third-party payers are increasingly attempting to limit both the coverage and the level of reimbursement of products to contain costs, and if they are successful, our ability to sustain revenue growth and profitably will be adversely affected. If we make acquisitions or divestitures, we could encounter difficulties that harm our business. We may acquire companies, products or technologies that we believe to be complementary to the present or future direction of our business. If we engage in such acquisitions, we may have difficulty integrating the acquired personnel, financials, operations, products or technologies. Acquisitions may dilute our earnings per share, disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses, subject us to liabilities, and increase our risk of litigation which could harm our business. If we use cash to acquire companies, products or technologies, it may divert resources available for other purposes. If we use our common stock to acquire companies, products or technologies, it may substantially dilute the percentage of the company held by stockholders who own securities prior to the acquisition. We are subject to a complex system of domestic and foreign taxation and unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of expenses in different jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax 12 Table of Contents rates, in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or in tax laws, or by material audit assessments, which could affect our profitability. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the United States, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the United States. In addition, the amount of tax we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. Further tax law changes in jurisdictions in which we conduct business could materially affect our profitability. We are responsible for charging end customers certain taxes in numerous international jurisdictions. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. In the future, we may come under audit which could result in changes to their estimates. We believe that we maintain adequate tax reserves to offset potential liabilities that may arise upon audit. Although we believe our tax estimates and associated reserves are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than the amounts established for tax contingencies. To the extent that such estimates ultimately prove to be inaccurate, the associated reserves would be adjusted resulting in our recording a benefit or expense in the period a final determination was made. If we fail to comply with the FDA’s Quality System regulations, our manufacturing operations could be delayed, and our product sales and profitability could suffer. When manufacturing our medical devices, including our reagents, we are required to adhere to Quality System regulations, which require us to manufacture our products and maintain records in a prescribed manner. We are subject to future FDA Quality System inspections, and we cannot assure you that we will pass these inspections or maintain compliance. If we are unable to pass these inspections or maintain compliance, our product sales and profitability could suffer. Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act (CLIA) regulations or FDA regulation of clinical laboratories could harm our business by limiting the potential market for our products. Customers using our products for clinical use in the United States may be regulated under the CLIA. CLIA is intended to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratories in the United States by mandating specific standards in the areas of personnel qualification, administration, proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance, and inspections. The regulations promulgated under CLIA establish three levels of clinical tests, and the standards applicable to a clinical laboratory depend on the level of the tests it performs. CLIA requirements may prevent some clinical laboratories from using our products. Therefore, CLIA regulations and future administrative interpretations of CLIA could harm our business by limiting the potential market for our products. In addition, the FDA issued draft guidance on September 1, 2006 on the sale of Analyte Specific Reagents (ASRs) to CLIA-regulated laboratories, which if enforced as written, could limit the sales of certain ASRs we currently sell. If we have problems with key suppliers, our product development and commercialization efforts could be delayed or stopped. Our reagent products are formulated from chemical and biological materials using proprietary technology and standard processing techniques. We purchase components and raw materials used to make our reagent products primarily from single-source vendors. We cannot assure the materials or reagents will be available in commercial quantities or at acceptable prices. Any supply interruption or yield problems encountered in the use of materials from these vendors could have a significant effect on our ability to manufacture our products. Developing alternative or additional suppliers could be time consuming and expensive. A number of components used to manufacture instruments are made on a custom basis to our specifications and are available from a limited number of sources. If the supply of materials or components from any of these vendors were delayed or interrupted for any reason, or if the quality or reliability of the materials or components proves inadequate for use in our instruments, our ability to make instruments in a timely fashion could be impaired, and our results of operations would suffer. 13 Table of Contents Complying with international regulatory requirements is an expensive, time-consuming process, and approval is never certain. Sales of our products in the European Union or EU are subject to strict regulatory requirements, and approval is never certain. All of our products must be in compliance with the “In Vitro Diagnostics Directive” and bear the CE mark before being imported for sale in the EU. The CE mark is a symbol that indicates the device conforms to the essential requirements of the applicable directive and can be commercially distributed throughout the EU. The In Vitro Diagnostic Directive also subjects our manufacturing facilities to compliance inspections and requires design, manufacturing, and quality process documentation and controls. Some of our products do not bear the CE mark. We cannot assure you that the CE mark will be granted for all our products or that regulatory review will not involve delays that would harm our ability to market and sell our products in the EU. Further, we ship our products into European markets, which are also subject to governmental environmental regulations such as the Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (RoHS) which was effective July 1, 2006, and the Directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment. These directives focus on limiting the amounts of certain elements, such as lead, in electrical devices, and providing for the authorized disposal of the electrical devices and their components. We cannot assure you that compliance with these regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results and our business. We could bring litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which might result in substantial expense. We rely on patents to protect our intellectual property rights. The strength of this protection, however, is uncertain. In particular, it is not certain that: · our patents and pending patent applications use technology that we invented first; · we were the first to file patent applications for these inventions; · others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our technologies; · any of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; and/or · any patents issued to us will provide a basis for commercially viable products, will provide us with any competitive advantages, or will not face third-party challenges or be the subject of further proceedings limiting their scope or resulting in their invalidation. We may become involved in interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of our inventions. We also could become involved in opposition proceedings in foreign countries challenging the validity of our patents. In addition, costly litigation could be necessary to protect our patent position. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we operate is still evolving, and consequently, patent positions in our industry are generally uncertain. We may not prevail in any lawsuit, or if we do prevail, we may not receive commercially valuable remedies. Failure or inability to protect our patent rights or intellectual property could have serious adverse effects on our business and could affect our profitability. We also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how, and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect with confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, and others with whom we discuss our business. These individuals may breach our confidentiality agreements, and our contractual remedies may not be adequate to enforce these agreements. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability or enforceability of these agreements, and we may not be able to resolve these disputes in our favor. Furthermore, competitors may independently develop trade secrets and proprietary technology similar to ours. We may not be able to maintain the confidentiality of information. 14 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we will be able to fund our future capital requirements through internal sources or from other sources. We anticipate our existing capital resources and borrowing capacity will be adequate to satisfy our capital requirements for the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including: · possible acquisitions of complementary businesses, products, or technologies; · the extent that our products gain market acceptance; · the extent of any facilities expansion; · the progression of our product development programs; · competing technological and market developments; · the cost of manufacturing scale-up activities; and · our ability to sustain profitability with the uncertain timing of regulatory approvals. We may require additional capital resources and cannot assure you that capital will be available to the extent required, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In the event that we acquire complementary businesses, products, or technologies, we may have to issue debt or raise additional capital in the equity markets. Any such future capital requirements that results in the issuance of equity securities would dilute the interests of our existing stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 