Risk Factors Our operating results have fluctuated significantly which has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our stock price. Operating Results A variety of factors could affect our results of operations. The above graph illustrates that our quarterly net sales and operating results have fluctuated significantly. We believe they will continue to fluctuate for several reasons, including: •worldwide economic conditions in the semiconductor industry in general and capital equipment industry specifically; •loss of certain key customers who account for large portions of our revenue; •patterns of capital spending by our customers, including delays, cancellations or reschedulings of customer orders due to customer financial difficulties or otherwise; •the costs and risk inherent in the restructuring of our business to focus on the consumer IC business; •market acceptance of our new products and enhanced versions of existing products; •changes in overhead absorption levels due to changes in the number of systems manufactured, the timing and shipment of orders, availability of components including custom ICs subassemblies and services, customization and reconfiguration of our systems and product reliability; •our ability to attract and retain qualified employees in a competitive market; •timing of new product announcements and new product releases by us or our competitors; •labor and materials supply constraints; •expenses associated with acquisitions and alliances, including expenses charged for any impaired acquired intangible assets and goodwill; 14 •operating expense reductions associated with cyclical industry downturns, including costs relating to facilities consolidations and related expenses; •the proportion of our direct sales and sales through third parties, including distributors and OEMs, the mix of products sold, the length of manufacturing and sales cycles, and product discounts; and •natural disasters, political and economic instability, currency fluctuations, regulatory changes and outbreaks of hostilities, especially in Asia. We intend to introduce new products and product enhancements in the future, the timing and success of which will affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our gross margins on systems sales have varied significantly and will continue to vary significantly based on a variety of factors including: •long-term pricing decreases by us and our competitors and pricing by our suppliers; •the success of efforts to outsource our manufacturing activities to third party contract manufacturers; •manufacturing volumes; •hardware product sales mix; •absorption levels and the rate of capacity utilization; •inventory write-downs; •product reliability; •possible sale of inventory previously written-down; •international and domestic sales mix and field service margins; and •ceasing investment in underperforming or redundant product lines. New and enhanced products typically have lower gross margins in their early stages of commercial introduction and production, and we may build substantial finished goods inventories of such new products. If delays in or cancellations of orders for those products occur, it may require a future inventory write-down, which would negatively affect our future financial performance. Although we have recorded and continue to record inventory write-downs, product warranty costs, and deferred revenue, we cannot be certain that our estimates will be adequate. We cannot forecast with any certainty the impact of these and other factors on our sales and operating results in any future period. Results of operations in any period, therefore, should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. Because of this difficulty in predicting future performance, our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors in some future quarter or quarters. Our failure in the past to meet these expectations has adversely affected the market price of our common stock and may continue to do so. In addition, our need for continued significant expenditures for research and development, marketing and other expenses for new products, capital equipment purchases and worldwide training and customer service and support will impact our sales and operating results in the future. Other significant expenditures may make it difficult for us to reduce our significant fixed expenses in a particular period if we do not meet our net sales goals for that period. Many of our expenses are fixed and will be difficult to reduce in a particular period if our net sales goal for that period is not met. As a result, we cannot be certain that we will be profitable in the future. 15 We have a limited backlog and obtain most of our net sales from products that typically range in price from $80,000 to $3.0 million and generally ship products generating most of our net sales near the end of each quarter, which can result in fluctuations of quarterly results. We obtain most of our net sales from the sale of a relatively few number of systems that typically range in selling price from $80,000 to $3.0 million. This has resulted and could continue to result in our net sales and operating results for a particular period being significantly impacted by the timing of recognition of revenue from a single transaction. Our net sales and operating results for a particular period could also be materially adversely affected if an anticipated order from just one customer is not received in time to permit shipment during that period. Backlog at the beginning of a quarter typically does not include all orders necessary to achieve our sales objectives for that quarter. Orders in backlog are subject to cancellation, delay, deferral or rescheduling by customers with limited or no penalties. Throughout the recent fiscal years, we have experienced customer-requested shipment delays and order cancellations, and we believe it is probable that orders will be canceled and delayed in the future. Consequently, our quarterly net sales and operating results have in the past, and will in the future, depend upon our obtaining orders for systems to be shipped in the same quarter in which the order is received. Furthermore, we generally ship products generating most of our net sales near the end of each quarter. Accordingly, our failure to receive an anticipated order or a delay or rescheduling in a shipment near the end of a particular period or a delay in receiving customer acceptance from a customer may cause net sales in a particular period to fall significantly below expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The relatively long manufacturing cycle of many of our testers has caused and could continue to cause future shipments of testers to be delayed from one quarter to the next. Furthermore, as our competitors announce new products and technologies, and as we complete acquisitions of similar technologies, customers may defer or cancel purchases of our existing systems. We cannot forecast the impact of these and other factors on our sales and operating results. If our restructuring activities are unsuccessful, our business could be harmed. After the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, we announced a series of restructuring activities, including our intention to prioritize our research and development activities on our Diamond and ASL platforms, to focus our Sapphire platform development on high end consumer markets, to double our sales and support headcount in Asia, to reduce our commitment to businesses and products unrelated to the consumer semiconductor markets, to modify our service business and to reduce our headcount world-wide on a net basis by approximately 400 employees. We cannot be certain that we will successfully anticipate the product needs of our customers or that the products and features we develop as a result of this change in focus will gain customer acceptance. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will not experience delays in product and enhancement development as a result of the changes in our staffing and headcount. Customers may curtail purchases as a result of these changes in focus, delays in product and enhancement development and changes in our service model. Any curtailment of purchases by customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Some of our net sales are generated from a small number of key customers and the loss of a key customer or material reductions in capital spending by a key customer could substantially reduce our revenues and be perceived as a loss of momentum in our business. Over time, we have expanded our base of customers; however, a large portion of our net sales are generated from a small number of key customers. In particular, two customers, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and Intel Corporation accounted for 27% and 16% of our net sales for fiscal year 2007, respectively. For fiscal 2006, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and Intel Corporation accounted for 23% and 15% of our net sales, respectively. For fiscal year 2005, Intel Corporation and Advanced Micro 16 Devices, Inc. accounted for 25% and 14% of our net sales, respectively. Our top ten customers accounted for 72%, 64% and 65% of our net sales for fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005 respectively. We expect that our top ten customers in the aggregate will continue to account for a large portion of our net sales for the foreseeable future, and the loss of one or more of these customers or collaborative partners or material reductions in capital spending by one or more of these customers or collaborative partners would harm our business and operating results. The loss of a significant customer could also be perceived as a loss of momentum in our business and an adverse impact on our financial results, and this may cause the market price of our common stock to fall. Increased reliance on outsourced manufacturing and logistics may affect our business. We are increasingly outsourcing manufacturing and logistics activities to third-party service providers, which decreases our control over the performance of these functions. We have already outsourced certain manufacturing and spare parts logistics functions to third-party service providers, and we intend to outsource more of those functions in the future. While we expect to achieve operational flexibility and cost savings as a result of this outsourcing, outsourcing has a number of risks and reduces our control over the performance of the outsourced functions. Significant performance problems by these third-party service providers could result in cost overruns, delayed deliveries, shortages, quality issues or other problems that could result in significant customer dissatisfaction and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If for any reason one or more of these third-party service providers becomes unable or unwilling to continue to provide services of acceptable quality, at acceptable costs and in a timely manner, our ability to deliver our products or spare parts to our customers could be severely impaired. We would quickly need to identify and qualify substitute service providers or increase our internal capacity, which could be expensive, time-consuming and difficult, and could result in unforeseen operations problems. Substitute service providers might not be available or, if available, might be unwilling or unable to offer services on acceptable terms. Compliance with current and future environmental regulations may be costly which could impact our future earnings. We may be subject to environmental and other regulations due to our production and marketing of products in certain states and countries. We also face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and upcoming requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including the restrictions on lead and certain other substances in electronics that apply to specified electronics products put on the market in the European Union as of July 1, 2006 (Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (EU RoHS)). The European Union has also finalized the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE), which makes producers of electrical goods financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. The deadline for enacting and implementing this directive by individual European Union governments was August 13, 2004 (WEEE Legislation), although extensions were granted in some countries. Producers became financially responsible under the WEEE Legislation beginning in August 2005. Other countries, such as the United States, China and Japan, have enacted or may enact laws or regulations similar to the EU RoHS or WEEE Legislation. These and other environmental regulations may require us to reengineer certain of our existing products and develop new strategies for the design of new products to utilize components which are more environmentally compatible. Such reengineering and component substitution may result in delays in product design and manufacture and could cause us to incur additional costs. Although we currently do not anticipate any material adverse effects based on the 17 nature of our operations and the effect of such laws, there is no assurance that such existing laws or future laws will not have a material adverse effect on our business. The semiconductor industry is cyclical. The semiconductor equipment industry is highly cyclical. Our business and results of operations depend largely upon the capital expenditures of manufacturers of semiconductors and companies that specialize in contract packaging and/or testing of semiconductors. This includes manufacturers and contractors that are opening new or expanding existing fabrication facilities or upgrading existing equipment, which in turn depends upon the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and products incorporating semiconductors. The timing, length and severity of the up-and-down cycles in the semiconductor equipment industry are difficult to predict. This cyclical nature of the industry in which we operate affects our ability to accurately predict future revenue and, thus, future expense levels. When cyclical fluctuations result in lower than expected revenue levels, operating results may be adversely affected and cost reduction measures may be necessary in order for us to remain competitive and financially sound. During a down cycle, we must be in a position to adjust our cost and expense structure to prevailing market conditions and to continue to motivate and retain our key employees. In addition, during periods of rapid growth, we must be able to increase manufacturing capacity and personnel to meet customer demand. We can provide no assurance that these objectives can be met in a timely manner in response to industry cycles. If we fail to respond to industry cycles, our business could be seriously harmed. As a result of the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, we have experienced shipment delays, delays in commitments and restructured purchase orders by customers and we expect this activity to continue. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to achieve or maintain our current or prior level of sales or rate of growth. We anticipate that a significant portion of new orders may depend upon demand from semiconductor device manufacturers building or expanding fabrication facilities and new device testing requirements that are not addressable by currently installed test equipment, and there can be no assurance that such demand will develop to a significant degree, or at all. In addition, our business, financial condition or results of operations may continue to be materially adversely affected by any factor materially adversely affecting the semiconductor industry in general or particular segments within the semiconductor industry. Implementation or changes to our enterprise resource planning system and other related systems may affect our business. We may experience difficulties in implementing, making changes to or enhancing our enterprise resource planning or ERP system and other related systems that could disrupt our ability to timely and accurately process and report key components of the results of our consolidated operations, our financial position and cash flows. Any disruptions or difficulties that may occur in connection with implementing, making changes to or enhancing our ERP system or any future systems could also adversely affect our ability to complete the evaluation of our internal controls and attestation activities pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. System failure or malfunctioning may result in disruption of operations and the inability to process transactions and could adversely affect our financial results. Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing standards or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. 18 For example, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued changes to U. S. GAAP that requires us to record a charge to earnings for our various share-based compensation programs beginning on November 1, 2005 which resulted in us recording additional share-based compensation expenses of $3.5 million and $3.3 million for the fiscal years 2007 and 2006, respectively. In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes—an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109" (FIN 48) which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income tax positions. This interpretation requires that we recognize in our financial statements the impact of a tax position if that position is more likely than not of being sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position. The provisions of FIN 48 are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006, with the cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle, if any, recorded as an adjustment to opening retained earnings. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting FIN 48 on our financial position, cash flows, and results of operations. Changes to existing rules, including the adoption of FIN 48, or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. We may continue to experience delays in development, introduction, production in volume, and recognition of revenue from sales of our products. We have in the past experienced significant delays in the development, introduction, volume production and sales of our new systems and related feature enhancements. These delays related to our inability to successfully complete product hardware engineering within the time frame originally anticipated, including design errors and redesigns of ICs. As a result, some customers have experienced significant delays in receiving and using our testers in production. Delays in introducing a product or delays in our ability to obtain customer acceptance, if they occur in the future, will delay the recognition of revenue and gross profit by us. We cannot be certain that these or additional difficulties will not continue to arise or that delays will not continue to materially adversely affect customer relationships and future sales. Moreover, we cannot be certain that we will not encounter these or other difficulties that could delay future introductions or volume production or sales of our systems or enhancements. In the past, we have incurred and we may continue to incur substantial unanticipated costs to increase feature sets in our systems. If our systems experience reliability, quality or other problems, or the market perceives our products to be feature deficient, we may continue to suffer reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delay in collecting accounts receivable and higher service, support and warranty expenses, and/or inventory write-offs, among other effects. Our failure to have a competitive test system available when required by a customer could make it substantially more difficult for us to sell testers to that customer for a number of years. We believe that the continued acceptance, volume production, timely delivery and customer satisfaction of our newer digital and mixed signal testers are of critical importance to our future financial results. As a result, our inability to correct any technical, reliability, parts shortages or other difficulties associated with our systems or to manufacture and ship the systems on a timely basis to meet customer requirements could damage our relationships with current and prospective customers and would continue to materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the consolidation of our manufacturing operations in a single site exposes us to the increased risk of manufacturing delays or disruption in the event of natural disasters or other calamities at the site. Any delays or disruptions could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition in the ATE market requires rapid technological enhancements and new products and services. Our ability to compete in the ATE market depends upon our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and enhancements with enhanced features on a timely and cost-effective basis, including products under development internally as well as products obtained in acquisitions. Our 19 customers require test systems with additional features, higher performance and other capabilities. Therefore, it is necessary for us to develop new systems and/or enhance the performance and other capabilities of our existing systems to adequately address these requirements. Any success we may have in developing new and enhanced systems and new features to our existing systems will depend upon a variety of factors, including: •product selection; •timely and efficient completion of product design; •implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes; •product performance; •reliability in the field; •effective worldwide sales and marketing; and •labor and supply constraints. Because we must make new product development commitments well in advance of sales, new product decisions must anticipate both future demand and the availability of technology to satisfy that demand. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in selecting, developing, manufacturing and marketing new hardware products or enhancements. Our inability to introduce new products that contribute significantly to net sales, gross margins and net income would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. New product or technology introductions by our competitors could cause a decline in sales or loss of market acceptance of our existing products. If we introduce new products, existing customers may curtail purchases of the older products resulting in inventory write-offs and they may delay new product purchases. Any decline in demand for our hardware products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are continuing to invest significant resources in the expansion of our product lines and there is no certainty that our net sales will increase or remain at historical levels or that new products will contribute to revenue growth. We are currently devoting and intend to continue to devote significant resources to the development, enhancement, production and commercialization of new products and technologies. During fiscal years 2007 and 2006, we introduced several enhancements as well as new products that are evolutions or derivatives of existing products as well as products that were largely new. Under our revenue recognition policy adopted in accordance with SAB 104 we defer revenue for transactions that involve newly introduced products or when customers specify acceptance criteria that cannot be demonstrated prior to the shipment. This results in a delay in the recognition of revenue as compared to the historic norm of recognizing revenue upon shipment. Product introduction delays, if they occur in the future, will delay the recognition of revenue and gross profit and may result in delayed cash receipts by us that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We invested and continue to invest significant resources in property, plant and equipment, purchased and leased facilities, inventory, personnel and other costs to begin or prepare to increase production of these products. A significant portion of these investments will provide the marketing, administration and after-sales service and support required for these new products. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that gross profit margin and inventory levels will not continue to be materially adversely affected by delays in new product introductions or start-up costs associated with the initial production and installation of these new product lines. We also cannot be certain that we can manufacture these systems per the time and quantity required by our customers. The start-up costs include additional manufacturing overhead, additional inventory and warranty reserve requirements and 20 the enhancement of after-sales service and support organizations. In addition, the increases in inventory on hand for new product development and customer support requirements continue to increase the risk of significant inventory write-offs. We cannot be certain that our net sales will increase or remain at historical levels or that any new products will be successfully commercialized or contribute to revenue growth or that any of our additional costs will be covered. The ATE industry is intensely competitive which can adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our net sales and revenues growth. With the substantial investment required to develop test application and interfaces, we believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer has selected a particular ATE vendor's tester, the manufacturer is likely to use that tester for a majority of its testing requirements for the market life of that semiconductor and, to the extent possible, subsequent generations of similar products. As a result, once an ATE customer chooses a system for the testing of a particular device, it is difficult for competing vendors to achieve significant ATE sales to such customer for similar use. Our inability to penetrate any particular large ATE customer or achieve significant sales to any ATE customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We face substantial competition from ATE manufacturers throughout the world. A substantial portion of our net sales is derived from sales of mixed-signal testers. We face in some cases seven and in other cases nine competitors in our primary market segments of digital, mixed signal, and RF wireless ATE. We believe that the ATE industry in total has not been profitable for the last three years, indicating a very competitive and volatile marketplace. Several of these competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. In addition, three of our competitors recently completed initial public offerings. The success of these companies could make the competitive environment substantially more severe. Certain competitors have introduced or announced new products with certain performance or price characteristics equal or superior to products we currently offer. These competitors have introduced products that compete directly against our products. We believe that if the ATE industry continues to consolidate through strategic alliances or acquisitions, we will continue to face significant additional competition from larger competitors that may offer product lines and services more complete than ours. Our competitors are continuing to improve the performance of their current products and to introduce new products, enhancements and new technologies that provide improved cost of ownership and performance characteristics. New product introductions by our competitors could cause a decline in our sales or loss of market acceptance of our existing products. Moreover, our business, financial condition or results of operations will continue to be materially adversely affected by continuing competitive pressure and continued intense price-based competition. We have experienced and continue to experience significant price competition in the sale of our products. In addition, pricing pressures typically have become more intense during cyclical downturns when competitors seek to maintain or increase market share, at the end of a product's life cycle and as competitors introduce more technologically advanced products. We believe that, to be competitive, we must continue to expend significant financial resources in order to, among other things, invest in new product development and enhancements and to maintain customer service and support centers worldwide. We cannot be certain that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. We may not be able to deliver custom hardware options to satisfy specific customer needs in a timely manner. We must develop and deliver customized hardware to meet our customers' specific test requirements. The market requires us to manufacture these systems on a timely basis. Our test equipment may fail to meet our customers' technical or cost requirements and may be replaced by competitive equipment or an alternative technology solution. Our inability to meet such hardware 21 requirements could impact our ability to recognize revenue on the related equipment. Our inability to provide a test system that meets requested performance criteria when required by a device manufacturer would severely damage our reputation with that customer. This loss of reputation may make it substantially more difficult for us to sell test systems to that manufacturer for a number of years, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We rely on Spirox Corporation and customers in Taiwan and China for a significant portion of our revenues and the termination of this distribution relationship would materially adversely affect our business. Spirox Corporation, a distributor in Taiwan that sells to end-user customers in Taiwan and China, accounted for approximately 16%, 13% and 13% of our net sales for the fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Our agreement with Spirox has no minimum purchase commitment and can be terminated for any reason on 180 days prior written notice. On May 31, 2005, we entered into an agreement with Spirox to combine our Taiwan operation with Spirox's T1 division into a corporation named Credence Spirox Integration Corporation, an operation owned 90% by Spirox and 10% by us. This new corporation is dedicated to supporting our products in the Taiwan region. Consequently, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of or any reduction in orders by Spirox, any termination of the Spirox relationship, or the loss of any significant Spirox customer, including the potential for reductions in orders by assembly and tester service companies due to technical, manufacturing or reliability problems with our products or continued slow-downs in the semiconductor industry or in other industries that manufacture products utilizing semiconductors. Our ability to maintain or increase sales levels in Taiwan will depend upon: •our ability with Spirox to obtain orders from existing and new customers; •our ability to manufacture systems on a timely and cost-effective basis; •our ability to timely complete the development of our new hardware products; •Spirox and its end-user customers' financial condition and success; •general economic conditions; and •our ability to meet increasingly stringent customer performance and other requirements and shipment delivery dates. We have substantial indebtedness and if we need additional financing, it could be difficult to obtain. As of November 3, 2007, we had $72.5 million principal amount of 1.5% Convertible Subordinated Notes, or 1.5% Notes, due in May 2008 and $122.5 million principal amount of 3.5% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes, due 2010 (the New Notes). The New Notes contain net share settlement provisions which require that, upon conversion of the New Notes, we will pay holders in cash up to the principal amount of the converted New Notes. Any amounts in excess of this converted amount will be settled in shares of our common stock or, at our option, cash. The initial conversion price is $8.25. The level of indebtedness, among other things, could: •make it difficult for us to make payments on our debt and other obligations, particularly upon maturity of the 1.5% Notes in May 2008 and the maturity or conversion of the New Notes, due 2010 if we were unable to cause the conversion of this debt into equity; •make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; 22 •require the dedication of a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to service the indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in our business and the industries in which we compete; •place us at a possible competitive disadvantage with respect to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources; and •make us more vulnerable in the event of a further downturn in our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet our debt service obligations, including our obligations under the 1.5% Notes or the New Notes. We expect that our existing cash and short-term investments will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements to fund operations and expected capital expenditures for the next 12 months. In the event we may need to raise additional funds, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain such additional financing on favorable terms if at all. Further, if we issue additional equity securities, stockholders may experience additional dilution or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock. Future financings may place restrictions on how we operate our business. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, if and when needed, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products and services, take advantage of future business opportunities, grow our business or respond to competitive pressures, which could seriously harm our business. Changes in the accounting treatment of our 3.5% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes could decrease our net income and earnings per share amounts. New or different accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings may emerge which could impact the way we are required to account for our convertible debt instruments that would have an adverse impact on our results of operations and earnings per share amount. With respect to our 3.5% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes, we are required under U.S. GAAP as presently in effect to include in outstanding shares for purposes of computing earnings per share only a number of shares underlying the convertible notes that, at the end of a given quarter, have a value in excess of the outstanding principal amount of the convertible notes. This is because of the "net share settlement" feature of the convertible notes, under which we are required to pay the principal amount of the convertible notes in cash. The recently issued exposure draft from the FASB, FSP ARB 14-A "Accounting for convertible debt that may be settled in cash upon conversion (including partial cash settlement)" is proposing a new method of accounting for net share settled convertible debt instruments under which the debt and equity components of the instrument would be bifurcated and accounted for separately. If the proposed position is adopted by the FASB it could impact our net income and earnings per share amounts. While the recently issued exposure draft from FASB contemplated that this change would take effect for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007, this change has not yet been adopted and we are unable to estimate the likelihood that the proposed change will be adopted, whether it will apply to the 3.5% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes or the date it would be effective if adopted. We require a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate cash may be affected by factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow in an amount sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs, including payment of the principal of, or interest on, our indebtedness, working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances and other 23 general corporate requirements. Our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot be assured that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings or other sources of funding will be available to us, in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs or with terms that are favorable to us. We may repatriate cash from our foreign subsidiaries, which could result in additional income taxes that could negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. In addition, if foreign countries' currency policies limit our ability to repatriate the needed funds, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. One or more of our foreign subsidiaries hold a portion of our cash and cash equivalents. If we need additional cash to acquire assets or technology, or to support our operations in the United States, and if the currency policies of these foreign countries allow us, we may repatriate some of our cash from these foreign subsidiaries to the United States. For example, during the first quarter of fiscal year 2007, we repatriated $7.1 million from our Hong Kong operations. Depending on our financial results and the financial results of our subsidiaries at the time that the cash is repatriated, we may incur additional income taxes from the repatriation, which could negatively affect our results of operations and financial position. In addition, if the currency policies of these foreign countries prohibit or limit our ability to repatriate the needed funds, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Our long and variable sales cycle depends upon factors outside of our control and could cause us to expend significant time and resources prior to earning associated revenues. Sales of our systems depend in part upon the decision of semiconductor manufacturers to develop and manufacture new semiconductor devices or to increase manufacturing capacity. As a result, sales of our products are subject to a variety of factors we cannot control. The decision to purchase our products generally involves a significant commitment of capital, with the attendant delays frequently associated with significant capital expenditures. For these and other reasons, our systems have lengthy sales cycles during which we may expend substantial funds and management effort to secure a sale, subjecting us to a number of significant risks, including a risk that our competitors may compete for the sale, a further downturn in the economy or other economic factors causing our customers to withdraw or delay their orders or a change in technological requirements of the customer. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected by our long and variable sales cycle and the uncertainty associated with expending substantial funds and effort with no guarantee that a sale will be made. There are limitations on our ability to find the supplies and services necessary to run our business. We obtain certain components, subassemblies and services necessary for the manufacture of our testers from a limited group of suppliers. We do not maintain long-term supply agreements with most of our vendors, and we purchase most of our components and subassemblies through individual purchase orders. The manufacture of certain of our components and subassemblies is an extremely complex process. We also rely on outside vendors to manufacture certain components and subassemblies and to provide certain services. We have experienced and continue to experience significant reliability, quality and timeliness problems with several critical components including certain custom ICs. We cannot be certain that these or other problems will not continue to occur in the future with our suppliers or outside subcontractors. Our reliance on a limited group of suppliers and on outside subcontractors involves several risks, including an inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components, subassemblies and services and reduced control over the price, timely delivery, reliability and quality of components, subassemblies and services. Shortages, delays, disruptions or 24 terminations of the sources for these components and subassemblies have delayed and in the future may delay shipments of our systems and new products and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our continuing inability to obtain adequate yields or timely deliveries or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply or to manufacture such components internally could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Such delays, shortages and disruptions would also damage relationships with current and prospective customers and have and could continue to allow competitors to penetrate our customer accounts. We cannot be certain that our internal manufacturing capacity or that of our suppliers and subcontractors will be sufficient to meet customer requirements. Our international business exposes us to additional risks. International sales accounted for approximately 71%, 69% and 69% of our total net sales for the fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our total net sales in the foreseeable future. These international sales will continue to be subject to certain risks, including: •changes in regulatory requirements; •tariffs and other barriers; •political and economic instability; •adverse effects of fears surrounding any health risks on our business and sales and that of our customers, especially in Taiwan, Hong Kong and China; •outbreak of hostilities in markets where we sell our products, including Korea and Israel; •integration and management of foreign operations of acquired businesses; •foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; •difficulties with distributors, outsourcing partners and supply chain, original equipment manufacturers, foreign subsidiaries and branch operations; •potentially adverse tax consequences; •possibility of difficulty in accounts receivable collection; •greater difficulty in complying with United States accounting standards; and •greater difficulty in protecting intellectual property rights. We are also subject to the risks associated with the imposition of domestic and foreign legislation and regulations relating to the import or export of semiconductor equipment products. We cannot predict whether the import and export of our products will be adversely affected by changes in or new quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions imposed by the United States or any other country in the future. Any of these factors or the adoption of restrictive policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Net sales to the Asia-Pacific region accounted for approximately 52%, 50% and 46% of our total net sales for the fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and thus demand for our products is subject to the risk of economic instability in that region and health risks. No single end-user customer headquartered in Asia or Europe accounted for more than 10% of our net sales during the fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005. In addition, one of our major distributors, Spirox Corporation, which accounted for 16%, 13% and 13% of our net sales in the fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, is a Taiwan-based company. This subjects a significant portion of our receivables and future revenues to the risks associated with doing business in a foreign country, including political and economic instability, currency exchange rate 25 fluctuations, fears related to health risks and regulatory changes. Disruption of business in Asia caused by the previously mentioned factors could continue to have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We operate in a volatile industry—indicators of goodwill and other long-lived assets impairment under SFAS 142 and SFAS 144 may be present from time-to-time. Effective November 1, 2002, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" (SFAS 142), which was issued by the FASB in July 2001. Under this standard, we ceased amortizing goodwill and acquired workforce costs effective November 1, 2002. As mandated by SFAS 142, we test goodwill for possible impairment on an annual basis and at any other time if events occur or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable. Circumstances that could trigger an impairment test include but are not limited to: our market value falling below our net book value for a significant period of time, a significant adverse change in the business climate or legal factors; unanticipated competition; loss of key personnel; a significant change in direction with respect to investment in a product or market segment; the likelihood that a significant portion of the business will be sold or disposed of; or the results of testing for recoverability of a significant asset group within a reporting unit determined in accordance with SFAS 142. Based on a combination of factors that came into existence and were identified during the third quarter of fiscal year 2006, particularly: (1) our changed current and projected operating results reflecting lower demand from major customers; and (2) our current market capitalization which was significantly less than our book value for the preceding 10 weeks prior to the end of the third quarter, we concluded there were sufficient indicators to require us to assess whether any portion of our recorded goodwill balance was impaired. We determined, based on our estimates of forecasted discounted cash flows and our market capitalization, that our goodwill was impaired at July 31, 2006. Further analysis indicated that goodwill was impaired and charges of $423.9 million were recorded in the third quarter of fiscal year 2006. Other long-lived assets were assessed for impairment prior to the performance of the SFAS 142 analysis and were determined not to be impaired. If economic conditions in our industry continue to deteriorate and adversely affect our business, we could be required to record impairment charges related to our long-lived assets in accordance with SFAS 144, "Accounting for Impairment or Disposal for Long-Lived Assets" (SFAS 144) which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Future acquisitions may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention. Our growth depends upon market growth, our ability to enhance our existing products, and our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. We intend to continue to address the need to develop new products and enhance existing products through acquisitions of other companies, product lines, technologies, and personnel. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: •Difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products, and personnel of the acquired companies; •Diversion of management's attention from normal daily operations of the business; •Potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development; •Difficulties in entering markets in which we may have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets may have stronger market positions; 26 •Initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners; •Insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; and •Potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. Acquisitions may also cause us to: •Issue common stock that would dilute our current shareholders' percentage ownership; •Assume liabilities; •Record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges; •Incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; •Incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses; and •Become subject to intellectual property or other litigation. Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky, and no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could materially harm our business and operating results. Prior acquisitions have resulted in a wide range of outcomes, from successful introduction of new products and technologies to an inability to do so. Even when an acquired company has already developed and marketed products, there can be no assurance that product enhancements will be made in a timely fashion or that pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues that might arise with respect to such products. From time-to-time, we have made acquisitions that resulted in in-process research and development expenses being charged in a single quarter. These charges may occur in any quarter, contributing to variability in our quarterly earnings. Risks related to new product development also apply to acquisitions. Our executive officers and certain key personnel are critical to our business. Our future operating results depend substantially upon the continued service of our executive officers and key personnel. Our Chief Executive Officer, Lavi A. Lev, recently joined us and has limited experience in our business. Our future operating results also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, manufacturing, technical, engineering, marketing, sales and support personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we cannot ensure success in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. There may be only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in these positions and it may be increasingly difficult for us to hire personnel over time. During fiscal year 2007, we experienced turnover in our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, sales and marketing executive and engineering executive positions. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of our key employees, by the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, or by our inability to attract and retain skilled employees. If the protection of our proprietary rights is inadequate, our business could be harmed. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, copyrights, trademarks, maintenance of trade secrets and other measures, including entering into confidentiality agreements. However, we cannot be certain that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property or that we can meaningfully protect our intellectual property. Nor can we be 27 certain that our patents will not be invalidated, deemed unenforceable, circumvented or challenged, or that the rights granted there under will provide us with competitive advantages, or that any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued with claims of the scope we seek, if at all. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that others will not develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around our patents, or that foreign intellectual property laws, or agreements into which we have entered will protect our intellectual property rights. Inability or failure to protect our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, from time to time we encounter disputes over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property, including disputes with parties with whom we have licensed technologies. We cannot assume that we will prevail in any such intellectual property disputes. We have been involved in extensive, expensive and time-consuming reviews of, and litigation concerning, patent infringement claims. Our business may be harmed if we are found to infringe proprietary rights of others. We have at times been notified that we may be infringing intellectual property rights of third parties and we have litigated patent infringement claims in the past. We expect to continue to receive notice of such claims in the future. We cannot be certain of the success in defending patent infringement claims or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims. We cannot be certain of success in defending current or future patent or other infringement claims or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we must pay damages to a third party or suffer an injunction or if we expend significant amounts in defending any such action, regardless of the outcome. With respect to any claims, we may seek to obtain a license under the third party's intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain, however, that the third party will grant us a license on reasonable terms or at all. We could decide, in the alternative, to continue litigating such claims. Litigation has been and could continue to be extremely expensive and time consuming, and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, regardless of the outcome. We may be materially adversely affected by legal proceedings. We have been and may in the future be subject to various legal proceedings, including claims that involve possible infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights of third parties. It is inherently difficult to assess the outcome of litigation matters, and there can be no assurance that we will prevail in any litigation. Any such litigation could result in substantial cost and diversion of our efforts, which by itself could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Further, adverse determinations in such litigation could result in loss of our property rights, subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties or prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Recently enacted and proposed changes in securities laws and regulations have increased our costs. Recently enacted and proposed changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, have increased our expenses as we evaluate the implications of new rules and devote resources to respond to the new requirements. Sarbanes-Oxley Act mandates, among other things, that companies adopt new corporate governance measures and imposes comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, sets stricter independence and financial expertise standards for audit committee members and imposes increased civil and criminal penalties for companies, their chief executive officers and chief financial officers and directors for securities law violations. In addition, The NASDAQ Global Market, on which our common stock is listed, has also 28 adopted comprehensive rules and regulations relating to corporate governance. These laws, rules and regulations have increased the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, which could harm our results of operations and divert management's attention from business operations. We also expect these developments to continue to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance in the future, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. Further, our board members, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which would adversely affect our business. We are subject to the internal control evaluation and attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we include in our annual report our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our audited financial statements as of the end of each fiscal year. Furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm (Firm) is required to report on whether it believes we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the year. We successfully completed our assessment and obtained our Firm's attestation as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of November 3, 2007, October 31, 2006 and 2005. In future years, if we fail to timely complete this assessment, or if our Firm cannot timely attest, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and a loss of public confidence in our internal control. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to timely meet our regulatory reporting obligations. Terrorist attacks, terrorist threats, geopolitical instability and government responses thereto, may negatively impact all aspects of our operations, revenues, costs and stock price. The terrorist attacks in September 2001 in the United States and ensuing events and the resulting decline in consumer confidence had a material adverse effect on the economy. Any similar future events may disrupt our operations or those of our customers and suppliers. Our markets currently include Taiwan, Korea and Israel, which are experiencing political instability. In addition, these events have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the United States and world economy in general and consumer confidence and spending in particular, which could harm our sales. Any of these events could increase volatility in the United States and world financial markets, which could harm our stock price and may limit the capital resources available to us and our customers or suppliers. This could have a significant impact on our operating results, revenues and costs and may result in increased volatility in the market price of our common stock. We are subject to anti-takeover provisions that could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, equity incentive plans, bylaws and Delaware law may discourage transactions involving a change in corporate control. In addition to the foregoing, our classified board of directors and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without further stockholder approval could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a third party from acquiring us and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of holders of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 29 