ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as other information contained in or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company. Other risks and uncertainties that we do not presently consider to be material or of which we are not presently aware may become important factors that affect our company in the future. If any of the risks discussed below actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to our Business Changes in reimbursement rates or policies, including legislative and regulatory actions, could adversely affect our revenues or profitability. The profitability of our business depends on payment and reimbursement from governmental and non-governmental third party payors. Federal and state governments as well as commercial third party and selected private payors have taken and continue to take extensive steps intended to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare. These steps have included, among others, reductions in reimbursement rates, changes in services covered, increased utilization review of services, negotiated prospective or discounted contract pricing, and adoption of a competitive bid approach to service contracts. Cost containment efforts are expected to continue in the future. We cannot assure you that payments under state or federal governmental programs will remain at levels comparable to present levels or will be sufficient to cover the costs allocable to patients eligible for reimbursement pursuant to these programs. Although home healthcare, which is generally less costly than hospital-based care, has benefited from many of these cost containment efforts, as expenditures in the home healthcare market continue to grow, governmental and private payor initiatives aimed at reducing the cost of healthcare delivery at non-hospital sites are increasing. Many state Medicaid programs, in an effort to contain the cost of healthcare and in light of state budgetary constraints, have reduced their payment rates and have narrowed the scope of covered services. Initiatives have been implemented in the past and such initiatives are expected to continue in the future. There can be no assurance that these initiatives will not materially and adversely affect our revenues from these sources and, consequently, our results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that the services that we provide and the facilities that we operate will meet or continue to meet the requirements for participation in these programs. Our business may suffer if we lose relationships with payors. We are highly dependent on reimbursement from non-governmental payors. From time to time, payors with whom we have relationships require that we and our competitors bid to keep their business, and there can be no assurance that we will be retained or that our margins will not be adversely affected when that happens. The loss of a payor relationship or an adverse change in the financial condition of a payor could result in the loss of a significant number of patients and/or the write-off of accounts receivables, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Federal and state laws that protect the privacy of patient health information, such as HIPAA, may increase our costs, result in delays in reimbursement and limit our ability to collect and use that information. See Item 1 “Laws and Regulations”. We may not be able to collect reimbursements for our products and services from third party payors in a timely manner. We are responsible for submitting reimbursement requests to third party payors and collecting the reimbursements, and assume the financial risks relating to uncollectible and delayed reimbursements. In the 16 Table of Contents current healthcare environment, we may experience difficulties in collecting reimbursements because third party payors may seek to reduce, by appeal or otherwise, or delay reimbursements to which we are entitled for products and services that we have provided. Our business may be affected by delays in reimbursement from when we provide products and services to when we receive the reimbursement or payment for these products and services. Working capital management, including prompt and diligent billing and collection, is an important factor in our results of operation and liquidity. We cannot assure you that trends in the industry will not further extend the collection period and adversely impact our working capital or that our working capital management procedures will successfully mitigate this risk. Our business is highly regulated — extensive or frequent changes in regulations could adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to extensive and frequently changing state and federal regulation. We are required to comply with complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: • billing for services; • relationships with physicians and other federal sources; • adequacy and medical necessity of medical care; • adequacy of documentation of services provided; • quality of medical equipment and services; • qualifications of medical and support personnel; • confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with health-related information and medical records; • licensure; • operating policies and procedures; and • addition of facilities and services (including certificates of need). New laws and regulations are enacted from time to time to regulate new and existing services and products in the home healthcare industry. Because many of these laws and regulations are relatively new and are complex, we do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. Changes in the law or new interpretations of existing laws also could have an adverse effect on our methods and costs of doing business. Failure to comply with applicable regulations may subject us to fines, penalties or exclusion from participation in government programs. As part of the extensive federal and state regulation of our business, we are subject to audits, examinations and investigations by or at the direction of governmental investigatory and oversight agencies. Failure by us to comply with applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect our ability to continue to provide, or receive reimbursement for, our products and services and also could subject us and our officers to civil and criminal penalties. Such investigations and suits could result in significant financial sanctions or exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. Recently, enforcement of federal fraud and abuse laws and regulatory scrutiny generally, have increasingly focused on the home healthcare industry. There can be no assurance that we will not become the subject of a regulatory or other investigation or proceeding or that we will not encounter regulatory impediments that could adversely affect our ability to open new branch offices and to expand the services currently provided at our existing branch offices. There can be no assurance that current or future government regulation will not have an adverse effect upon our business. 17 Table of Contents We depend on the efforts of healthcare professionals, the loss of whose services could adversely affect our business. We are highly dependent upon our staff of professional nurses and therapists. Competition for healthcare professionals who possess the skills, experience and licenses necessary to meet the requirements of our patients is strong, and salaries and benefit costs relating to these professionals have risen. The loss of key personnel or the inability to attract, retain or motivate sufficient numbers of qualified healthcare professionals could adversely affect our business. Future changes to the supply and demand for certain healthcare professionals could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and on our ability to maintain or increase our patient base at certain or all of our branch offices. An inability to continue to increase the number of professionals we recruit and retain would adversely affect our potential for growth. The cost of attracting healthcare professionals and providing them with attractive benefit packages may be higher than anticipated and, as a result, our profitability could decline. Moreover, if we are unable to attract and retain these professionals, the quality of our services may decline and, as a result, we could lose patients. We rely on a few key executives and other employees whose absence or loss could adversely affect our business. We depend on a few key executives, and the loss of their services could materially adversely affect our company. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on any of those executives. We must be able to attract and retain other qualified, essential employees for our technical, operating and professional staff. If we are unable to attract and retain these essential employees, our business could be harmed. We participate in a highly competitive market and competitive pressures may result in a decrease in our revenues and profitability. The markets for our healthcare services are highly competitive and are divided among a large number of providers, some of which are national providers, but most of which are either regional or local providers. In addition to competing with other home healthcare companies focusing on providing services to pediatric patients, we compete with several large national home healthcare companies that, while not focusing primarily on the pediatric patient, provide pediatric home healthcare services as part of a broader service offering. Certain of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing/sales resources than we have and may, in certain locations, possess licenses or certificates of need that permit them to provide services that we cannot currently provide. The competitors also may undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and make more attractive offers to existing and potential employees and clients. Increased competition in the future from existing competitors or new entrants may limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition in the future that could limit our ability to maintain or increase our business and could adversely affect our operating results. Our business involves a major risk of lawsuits for product and malpractice liability, which our insurance may not be adequate to cover, that could increase the risk of our business. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. Our invested cash balances could suffer unexpected losses in value. We have invested the retained proceeds from the sale of the Pharmacy and RTES businesses in accordance with the terms of our Investment Policy which has been approved by the Board of Directors. This policy provides prescribed parameters that place higher priority on principal preservation than yield. Nevertheless, if significant unforeseen market disruptions were to occur, the potential for losses could exist. 18 Table of Contents Our business involves a major risk of workers’ compensation claims and losses, which our insurance may not be adequate or able to cover, that could increase the risk of our business. As a result of operating in the home healthcare industry, our business entails an inherent risk of claims, losses and potential lawsuits alleging employee accidents which are likely to occur in a patient’s home. As such, these incidents are typically un-witnessed and require proactive claims adjustment strategies to minimize expected losses and mitigate exposure to fraudulent claims. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. Our potential inability to react effectively to changes in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our operating results. In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including efforts at national healthcare reform, trends toward managed care, limits in Medicaid coverage and reimbursement levels, consolidation of healthcare distribution companies and collective purchasing arrangements by office-based healthcare practitioners. The impact of third party pricing pressures and low barriers to entry has dramatically reduced profit margins for healthcare providers. Continued growth in managed care and capitated plans has pressured healthcare providers to find ways of becoming more cost competitive. This has also led to consolidation of healthcare providers in our market areas. Our inability to react effectively to these and other changes in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our operating results. We cannot predict whether any healthcare reform efforts will be enacted and what effect any such reforms may have on us or our customers and suppliers. Our operations could be disrupted if our management information systems fail, causing increased expenses and loss of information. Our business depends in part upon our ability to input, store, retrieve, process and manage billing and collection information for each patient. Our internally developed system provides substantially all of our locations with immediate access to patient, contract, and payor information and supports substantially all necessary billing, cash posting, and collection services. We continue to make improvements in billing functionality to comply with payor contract requirements. We also continue to invest in upgrades to our technical infrastructure to maximize information system reliability, data integrity and disaster recoverability. There can be no assurance that our information systems will continue to perform as expected, or that further development will not be required. Failure of our management information systems to perform as expected could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be affected if we are unable to deploy the proceeds from the sale of our Pharmacy & RTES business. Our growth depends in part on our ability to successfully start-up new locations, any delays in obtaining the necessary licenses and surveys would impede progress. Our growth is also dependent upon our ability to identify, acquire and integrate PDN businesses in compliance with all applicable federal and state regulations. To replace the earnings stream of the Pharmacy and RTES businesses within the desired time frame, we anticipate a combination of successful start-up’s and acquisitions. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Risk Relating to our Common Stock The market price of our Common Stock may experience substantial fluctuations for reasons over which we have little or no control. The stock price and the number of shares traded of companies in the healthcare and health services industry experience periods of significant volatility. Both company-specific and industry-wide developments may cause this volatility. The market price of our common stock could continue to fluctuate up or down substantially based on a variety of factors, including the following: • sales of stock by large shareholders for reasons unrelated to our performance or future prospects; • future announcements concerning us, our competitors, the payors with whom we have relationships or the healthcare market; • changes in operating results from quarter to quarter; • sales of stock by insiders; • changes in government regulations; • news reports relating to trends in our markets; • acquisitions and financings in our industry; and • overall volatility of the stock market. Furthermore, stock prices for many companies fluctuate widely for reasons that may be unrelated to their operating results. These fluctuations, coupled with changes in our results of operations and general economic, political and market conditions, may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. Because we have paid no dividends on our Common Stock, you will only be able to benefit from holding our stock if the stock price increases. We have paid no dividends on our Common Stock. We anticipate that we will retain all of our future earnings, if any, and cash proceeds from the sale of the Pharmacy and RTES businesses for use in the operation and expansion of our core businesses. You will only be able to benefit from holding our stock if the stock price increases. Our stockholder rights plan, certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage a change in control. We have a stockholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging unsolicited takeover proposals. The rights issued under the plan would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved in advance by our Board of Directors. In addition to our stockholder rights plan, some provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws as well as Delaware law may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect or may delay or make more difficult an acquisition or change in control not approved by our Board of Directors, whether by means of a tender offer, open market purchase, a proxy contest or otherwise. These provisions could have the effect of discouraging third parties from making proposals involving an acquisition or change in control, although such a proposal, if made, might be considered desirable by a majority of our stockholders. These provisions may also have the effect of making it more difficult for third parties to cause the replacement of our current management without the concurrence of our Board of Directors. Available Information Our principal executive offices are located at 310 Technology Parkway, Norcross, Georgia 30092. Our main telephone number is (770) 441-1580. 20 Table of Contents A copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to such reports are available free of charge, on the Internet at the Company’s website, www.psahealthcare.com, as soon as practical after we file such reports with, or furnish such reports to, the SEC. The reference to our website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the website and should not be considered part of this report. Our reports are also available free of charge by mail upon written request to the Company’s Secretary at the address listed above. In addition, we have posted the charters for our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee, as well as our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, on our website. We will provide a copy of these documents to stockholders upon request. 