Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves significant risks relating to our business and investment objective. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before you purchase any shares of our common stock. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. Unknown additional risks and uncertainties, or ones that we currently consider immaterial, may also impair our business. If any of these risks or uncertainties materialize, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In this event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks related to the companies in our portfolio. The difficult venture capital investment and capital market climates could increase the non-performance risk for our portfolio companies. While the public markets have rebounded from the lows of March 2009 and corporate profits and growth are improving, unemployment remains high, and there are global instabilities, including sovereign debt issues and the potential for inflation. Even with signs of economic improvement, the availability of capital for venture capital firms and venture-backed companies continues to be limited. Currently, financing for capital-intensive companies remains difficult. Historically, difficult venture environments have resulted in a higher than normal number of companies not receiving financing and being subsequently closed down with a loss to venture investors, and other companies receiving financing but at significantly lower valuations than the preceding financing rounds. This issue is compounded by the fact that many existing venture capital firms have few remaining years of investment and available capital owing to the finite lifetime of the funds managed by these firms. Additionally, even if a firm was able to raise a new fund, commonly new funds are not permitted to invest with old funds in existing investments. As such, the currently improving exit environment for venture-backed companies through IPOs and M&A transactions and the currently improving public markets in general may not translate to an increase in the available capital to venture-backed companies, particularly those that have investments from funds that are in the latter stage of life unless it continues for some time into the future. We believe that these factors continue to introduce significant non-performance risk for venture-backed companies that need to raise additional capital or that require substantial amounts of capital to execute on their business plans. We define non-performance risk as the risk that a portfolio company will be: (a) unable to raise capital, will need to be shut down and will not return our invested capital; or (b) able to raise capital, but at a valuation significantly lower than the implied post-money valuation. In these circumstances, the portfolio company could be recapitalized at a valuation significantly lower than the post-money valuation implied by our valuation method, sold at a loss to our investment or shut down. In addition, significant changes in the capital markets, including the recent extreme volatility and disruption, have had, and may in the future have, a negative effect on the valuations of our investments and on the potential for liquidity events involving our investments. We believe further that the long-term effects of the difficult venture capital investment and difficult, but improving, exit environments will continue to affect negatively the fundraising ability of some companies regardless of near-term improvements in the overall global economy and public markets. 14 The average length of time from founding to a liquidity event is at historical highs, which could result in companies remaining in our portfolio longer, leading to lower returns, write-downs and write-offs. Beginning in about 2001, many fewer venture capital-backed companies per annum have been able to complete IPOs than in the years of the previous decade. The IPO and M&A markets improved in 2010 from those in 2009. On average, however, more capital and more time than in previous decades are required for companies to reach these liquidity events. This trend could lead to companies staying longer in our portfolio as private entities that may require additional funding. In the best case, such stagnation would dampen returns, and in the worst case, could lead to write-downs and write-offs as some companies run short of cash and have to accept lower valuations in private financings or are not able to access additional capital at all. The difficult venture capital climate is also causing some venture capital firms to change their investment strategies. Accordingly, some venture capital firms are reducing funding of their portfolio companies, making it more difficult for such companies to access capital and to fulfill their potential. In some cases this leads to write-downs and write-offs of such companies by other venture capital firms, such as ourselves, who are co-investors in such companies. Investing in small, privately held and publicly traded companies involves a high degree of risk and is highly speculative. We have invested a substantial portion of our assets in privately held companies, the securities of which are inherently illiquid. We also seek to invest in small publicly traded companies that we believe have exceptional growth potential. Although these companies are publicly traded, their stock may not trade at high volumes and prices can be volatile, which may restrict our ability to sell our positions. These privately held and publicly traded businesses tend to lack management depth, to have limited or no history of operations and to have not attained profitability. Companies commercializing products enabled by nanotechnology or microsystems are especially risky, involving scientific, technological and commercialization risks. Because of the speculative nature of these investments, these securities have a significantly greater risk of loss than traditional investment securities. Some of our venture capital investments are likely to be complete losses or unprofitable, and some will never realize their potential. We have been and will continue to be risk seeking rather than risk averse in our approach to venture capital and other investments. Neither our investments nor an investment in our common stock is intended to constitute a balanced investment program. We may invest in companies working with technologies or intellectual property that currently have few or no proven commercial applications. Nanotechnology, in particular, is a developing area of technology, of which much of the future commercial value is difficult to estimate and subject to widely varying interpretations. It is a general purpose technology that is applicable to a diverse set of industries. As such, nanotechnology-enabled products must compete against existing products or enable a completely new product in an emerging or existing industry. The timing of additional future commercially available nanotechnology-enabled products and the industries on which nanotechnology will have the most significant impact are highly uncertain. To date, some of our portfolio companies have not developed any commercially available products. In addition, our portfolio companies may not be able to manufacture successfully or to market their products in order to achieve commercial success. Further, the products may never gain commercial acceptance. 15 Our portfolio companies working with nanotechnology and microsystems may be particularly susceptible to intellectual property litigation. Research and commercialization efforts in nanotechnology and microsystems are being undertaken by a wide variety of government, academic and private corporate entities. As additional commercially viable applications of nanotechnology emerge, ownership of intellectual property on which these products are based may be contested. From time to time, our portfolio companies are or have been involved in intellectual property disputes and litigation. Any litigation over the ownership of, or rights to, any of our portfolio companies’ technologies or products could have a material adverse effect on those companies’ values. The value of our portfolio could be adversely affected if the technologies utilized by our portfolio companies are found, or even rumored or feared, to cause health or environmental risks, or if legislation is passed that limits the commercialization of any of these technologies. Nanotechnology has received both positive and negative publicity and is the subject increasingly of public discussion and debate. For example, debate regarding the production of materials that could cause harm to the environment or the health of individuals could raise concerns in the public’s perception of nanotechnology, not all of which might be rational or scientifically based. Nanotechnology in particular is currently the subject of health and environmental impact research. If health or environmental concerns about nanotechnology or microsystems were to arise, whether or not they had any basis in fact, our portfolio companies might incur additional research, legal and regulatory expenses, and might have difficulty raising capital or marketing their products. Government authorities could, for social or other purposes, prohibit or regulate the use of nanotechnology. Legislation could be passed that could circumscribe the commercialization of any of these technologies. Our Nanotech for CleantechSM, Nanotech for ElectronicsSM and Nanotech for HealthcareSM portfolios are currently the largest portion of our venture capital portfolio, and, therefore, fluctuations in the value of the companies in these portfolios may adversely affect our net asset value per share to a greater degree than other sectors of our portfolio. The three largest portions of our portfolio are our Nanotech for CleantechSM, Nanotech for ElectronicsSM and Nanotech for HealthcareSM portfolios. Our Nanotech for CleantechSM portfolio consists of companies commercializing nanotechnology-enabled products targeted at cleantech-related markets. There are risks in investing in companies that target cleantech-related markets, including the rapid and sometimes dramatic price fluctuations of commodities, particularly oil and sugar, and of public equities, the reliance on the capital and debt markets to finance large capital outlays, change in climate, including climate-related regulations, and the dependence on government subsidies to be cost-competitive with non-cleantech solutions. For example, the attractiveness of alternative methods for the production of biobutanol and biodiesel can be adversely affected by a decrease in the demand or price of oil. The demand for solar cells is driven partly by government subsidies and the availability of credit to finance the purchase and installation of the system. Adverse developments in any of these sectors may significantly affect the value of our Nanotech for CleantechSM portfolio, and thus our venture capital portfolio as a whole. Additionally, companies with cleantech platforms are currently in favor with the media and investors. Cleantech companies in general may have a harder time accessing capital in the future if this level of interest subsides. 16 Our Nanotech for ElectronicsSM portfolio consists of companies commercializing and integrating nanotechnology-enabled products targeted at electronics-related markets. There are risks in investing in companies that target electronics-related markets, including rapid and sometimes dramatic price erosion of products, the reliance on capital and debt markets to finance large capital outlays, including fabrication facilities, the reliance on partners outside of the United States, particularly in Asia, and inherent cyclicality of the electronics market in general. Additionally, electronics-related companies are currently out of favor with many venture capital firms. Therefore, access to capital may be difficult or impossible for companies in our portfolio that are pursuing these markets. Our Nanotech for HealthcareSM portfolio consists of companies that commercialize and integrate products enabled by nanotechnology and microsystems in healthcare-related industries, including biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, diagnostics and medical devices. There are risks in investing in companies that target healthcare-related industries, including but not limited to the uncertainty of timing and results of clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of products; failure to obtain any required regulatory approval of products; failure to develop manufacturing processes that meet regulatory standards; competition, in particular from companies that develop rival products; and the ability to protect proprietary technology. Adverse developments in any of these areas may adversely affect the value of our Nanotech for HealthcareSM portfolio. The three main industry clusters around which our nanotechnology investments have developed are all capital intensive. The industry clusters where nanotechnology and microsystems are gaining the greatest traction, cleantech, electronics and healthcare, are all capital intensive. Currently, financing for capital-intensive companies remains difficult. In some successful companies, we believe we may need to invest more than we currently have planned to invest in these companies. There can be no assurance that we will have the capital necessary to make such investments. In addition, investing greater than planned amounts in our portfolio companies could limit our ability to pursue new investments and fund follow-on investments. Both of these situations could cause us to miss investment opportunities or limit our ability to protect existing investments from dilution or other actions or events that would decrease the value and potential return from these investments. Our portfolio companies may generate revenues from the sale of products that are not enabled by nanotechnology. We consider a company to be enabled by nanotechnology or microsystems if a product or products, or intellectual property covering a product or products, that we consider to be at the microscale or smaller is material to its business plan. The core business of some of these companies may not be nanotechnology-enabled products, and, therefore, their success or failure may not be dependent upon the nanotechnology aspects of their business. In addition to developing products that we consider nanotechnology, some of these companies may also develop products that we do not consider enabled by nanotechnology. Some of these companies will generate revenues from the sale of non-nanotechnology-enabled products. Additionally, it is possible that a portfolio company may decide to change its business focus after our initial investment and decide to develop and commercialize non-nanotechnology-enabled products. 17 Our venture debt investments may be extremely risky, and we could lose all or part of our investments. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, if a portfolio company goes bankrupt, even though we may have structured our interest as senior debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided significant "managerial assistance" to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of another creditor. When we make a senior secured term loan investment in a portfolio company, we generally take a security interest in the available assets of the portfolio company, including the equity interests of its subsidiaries, which we expect to help mitigate the risk that we will not be repaid. However, there is a risk that the collateral securing our loans may decrease in value over time, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the business and market conditions, including as a result of the inability of the portfolio company to raise additional capital, and, in some circumstances, our lien could be subordinated to claims of other creditors. In addition, deterioration in a portfolio company’s financial condition and prospects, including its inability to raise additional capital, may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of the collateral for the loan. Consequently, the fact that a loan is secured does not guarantee that we will receive principal and interest payments according to the loan’s terms, or at all, or that we will be able to collect on the loan should we be forced to enforce our remedies. To the extent we use debt to finance our venture debt investments, changes in interest rates will affect our cost of capital and net investment income. To the extent we borrow money to make venture debt investments, our net investment income will depend, in part, upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we invest those funds. As a result, we can offer no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our net investment income in the event we use debt to finance our venture debt investments. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds could increase, which could reduce our net investment income. Currently, our one venture debt investment is at a fixed rate. Some of our future debt investments may bear interest at variable rates and the interest income from these investments could be negatively affected by decreases in market interest rates. In addition, an increase in interest rates would make it more expensive to use debt to finance our investments. As a result, a significant increase in market interest rates could increase our cost of capital, which would reduce our net investment income. A decrease in interest rates may have an adverse impact on our returns by requiring us to seek lower yields on our debt investments and by increasing the risk that our portfolio companies will prepay our debt investments, resulting in the need to redeploy capital at potentially lower rates. A decrease in market interest rates may also adversely impact our returns on our cash invested in treasury securities, which would reduce our net investment income. 18 On February 24, 2011, the Company established a new $10 million three-year revolving credit facility with TD Bank, N.A., to be used in conjunction with its investments in venture debt. As of March 15, 2011, we had $1,250,000 outstanding from our $10 million credit facility. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks senior to our investments in such companies. We may make investments in our portfolio companies in the form of bridge notes that typically convert into preferred stock issued in the next round of financing of that portfolio company or other forms of convertible and non-convertible debt securities. The portfolio companies usually have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks senior to the debt securities in which we invest. By their terms, debt instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of interest and principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the debt securities in which we invest. Also, in the case of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligations to us. In addition, in companies where we have made investments in the form of bridge notes or other debt securities, we may also have investments in equity in the form of preferred shares. In such a case, a bankruptcy court may subordinate our bridge notes and/or other debt securities to debt holders that do not have equity in the portfolio company. Our portfolio companies face risks associated with international sales. We anticipate that certain of our portfolio companies could generate revenue from international sales. Risks associated with these potential future sales include: · Political and economic instability; · Export controls and other trade restrictions; · Changes in legal and regulatory requirements; · U.S. and foreign government policy changes affecting the markets for the technologies; · Changes in tax laws and tariffs; · Convertibility and transferability of international currencies; and · International currency exchange rate fluctuations. 19 The effect of global climate change may impact the operations of our portfolio companies. There may be evidence of global climate change. Climate change creates physical and financial risk, and some of our portfolio companies may be adversely affected by climate change. For example, the needs of customers of energy companies vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity. To the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change, energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of any changes. Increases in the cost of energy could adversely affect the cost of operations of our portfolio companies if the use of energy products or services is material to their business. A decrease in energy use due to weather changes may affect some of our portfolio companies’ financial condition through decreased revenues. Extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions. Risks related to the illiquidity of our investments. We invest in illiquid securities and may not be able to dispose of them when it is advantageous to do so, or ever. Most of our investments are or will be equity, equity-linked, or debt securities acquired directly from small companies. These securities are generally subject to restrictions on resale or otherwise have no established trading market. The illiquidity of most of our portfolio of securities may adversely affect our ability to dispose of these securities at times when it may be advantageous for us to liquidate these investments. We may never be able to dispose of these securities. Unfavorable regulatory changes could impair our ability to engage in liquidity events. Recent government reforms affecting publicly traded companies, stock markets, investment banks and securities research practices have made it more difficult for privately held companies to complete successful IPOs of their equity securities, and such reforms have increased the expense and legal exposure of being a public company. Public equity market response to companies offering nanotechnology-enabled products is uncertain. An inability to exit investments in our portfolio could negatively affect our liquidity, our reinvestment rate in new and follow-on investments and the value of our portfolio. Even if some of our portfolio companies complete IPOs, the returns on our investments in those companies would be uncertain. When companies in which we have invested as private entities complete IPOs of their securities, these newly issued securities are by definition unseasoned issues. Unseasoned issues tend to be highly volatile and have uncertain liquidity, which may negatively affect their price. In addition, we are typically subject to lock-up provisions that prohibit us from selling our investments into the public market for specified periods of time after IPOs. The market price of securities that we hold may decline substantially before we are able to sell these securities. Government reforms that affect the trading of securities in the United States have made market-making by broker-dealers less profitable, which has caused broker-dealers to reduce their market-making activities, thereby making the market for unseasoned stocks less liquid than they might be otherwise. 20 Risks related to our Company. Our business may be adversely affected by the state of the venture capital market and capital markets in general. The economies of the United States and many other countries are just emerging from recession. While the public markets have rebounded from the lows of March 2009 and corporate profits and growth are improving, unemployment remains high, and there are global instabilities, including sovereign debt issues, popular revolts against established governments and the potential for inflation. These issues may persist for a substantial period and may slow or reverse the recovery of the global economy, which could be detrimental to the recovery of the venture capital industry. Our business and results of operations could be impacted adversely by a number of follow-on effects of the difficult venture capital market that resulted from the recent financial crisis, including the inability of our portfolio companies to obtain sufficient financing to continue to operate as a going concern, an increase in our funding costs or the limitation on our access to the capital markets. A prolonged period of market illiquidity may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our nonperforming assets may increase, and the value of our portfolio may decrease if this period of market illiquidity persists. These events could limit our investment activity, limit our ability to grow and negatively impact our operating results. Changes in regulations of the financial industry have adversely affected coverage of us by financial analysts. A number of analysts that have covered us in the past are no longer able to continue to do so owing to changes in employment, to restrictions on the size of companies they are allowed to cover and/or their firms have shut down operations. An inability to attract analyst coverage may adversely affect our ability to raise capital from investors, particularly institutional investors. Our inability to access the capital markets on favorable terms, or at all, may adversely affect our future financial performance. The inability to obtain adequate financing capital sources could force us to seek debt financing, self-fund strategic initiatives or even forgo certain opportunities, which in turn could potentially harm our current and future performance. Because there is generally no established market in which to value our investments, our Valuation Committee’s value determinations may differ materially from the values that a ready market or third party would attribute to these investments. There is generally no public market for the private equity securities in which we invest. Pursuant to the requirements of the 1940 Act, we value all of the privately held equity and debt securities in our portfolio at fair value as determined in good faith by the Valuation Committee, a committee made up of all of the independent members of our Board of Directors, pursuant to Valuation Procedures established by the Board of Directors. Determining fair value requires that judgment be applied to the specific facts and circumstances of each portfolio investment pursuant to specified valuation principles and processes. We are required by the 1940 Act to value specifically each individual investment on a quarterly basis and record unrealized depreciation for an investment that we believe has become impaired. Conversely, we must record unrealized appreciation if we believe that a security has appreciated in value. Our valuations, although stated as a precise number, are necessarily within a range of values that vary depending on the significance attributed to the various factors being considered. 21 We use the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model to determine the fair value of warrants held in our portfolio. Option pricing models, including the Black-Scholes-Merton model, require the use of subjective input assumptions, including expected volatility, expected life, expected dividend rate, and expected risk-free rate of return. In the Black-Scholes-Merton model, variations in the expected volatility or expected term assumptions have a significant impact on fair value. Because the securities underlying the warrants in our portfolio are not publicly traded, many of the required input assumptions are more difficult to estimate than they would be if a public market for the underlying securities existed. Without a readily ascertainable market value and because of the inherent uncertainty of valuation, the fair value that we assign to our investments may differ from the values that would have been used had an efficient market existed for the investments, and the difference could be material. Any changes in fair value are recorded in our Consolidated Statement of Operations as a change in the "Net decrease (increase) in unrealized depreciation on investments." In the venture capital industry, even when a portfolio of early-stage, high-technology venture capital investments proves to be profitable over the portfolio's lifetime, it is common for the portfolio's value to undergo a so-called "J-curve" valuation pattern. This means that when reflected on a graph, the portfolio’s valuation would appear in the shape of the letter "J," declining from the initial valuation prior to increasing in valuation. This J-curve valuation pattern results from write-downs and write-offs of portfolio investments that appear to be unsuccessful, prior to write-ups for portfolio investments that prove to be successful. Because early-stage companies typically have negative cash flow and are by their nature inherently fragile, a valuation process can more readily substantiate a loss of value than an increase in value. Even if our venture capital investments prove to be profitable in the long run, such J-curve valuation patterns could have a significant adverse effect on our net asset value per share and the value of our common stock in the interim. Over time, as we continue to make additional nanotechnology investments, this J-curve pattern may be less relevant for our portfolio as a whole, because the individual J-curves for each investment, or series of investments, may overlap with previous investments at different stages of their J-curves. Changes in valuations of our privately held, early-stage companies tend to be more volatile than changes in prices of established, more mature publicly traded securities. Investments in privately held, early- and mid-stage companies are inherently more volatile than investments in more mature businesses. Such immature businesses are inherently fragile and easily affected by both internal and external forces. Our investee companies can lose much or all of their value suddenly in response to an internal or external adverse event. Conversely, these immature businesses can gain suddenly in value in response to an internal or external positive development. Moreover, because our ownership interests in such investments are generally valued only at quarterly intervals by our Valuation Committee, changes in valuations from one valuation point to another tend to be larger than changes in valuations of marketable securities that are revalued in the marketplace much more frequently, in some highly liquid cases, virtually continuously. Although we carefully monitor each of our portfolio companies, information pertinent to our portfolio companies is not always known immediately by us, and, therefore, its availability for use in determining value may not always coincide with the timeframe of our valuations required by the federal securities laws. 22 We expect to continue to experience material write-downs of securities of portfolio companies. Write-downs of securities of our privately held companies have always been a by-product and risk of our business. We expect to continue to experience material write-downs of securities of privately held portfolio companies. Write-downs of such companies occur at all stages of their development. Such write-downs may increase in dollar terms, frequency and as a percentage of our net asset value as our dollar investment activity in privately held companies continues to increase, and the number of such holdings in our portfolio continues to grow. If the average size of each of our investments in nanotechnology increases, the average size of our write-downs may also increase. Because we do not choose investments based on a strategy of diversification, nor do we rebalance the portfolio should one or more investments increase in value substantially relative to the rest of the portfolio, the value of our portfolio is subject to greater volatility than the value of companies with more broadly diversified investments. We do not choose investments based on a strategy of diversification. We also do not rebalance the portfolio should one of our portfolio companies increase in value substantially relative to the rest of the portfolio. Therefore, the value of our portfolio may be more vulnerable to events affecting a single sector or industry and, therefore, subject to greater volatility than a company that follows a diversification strategy. Accordingly, an investment in our common stock may present greater risk to you than an investment in a diversified company. We are dependent upon key management personnel for future success, and may not be able to retain them. We are dependent upon the diligence and skill of our senior management and other key advisers for the selection, structuring, closing and monitoring of our investments. We utilize lawyers, and we utilize outside consultants, including one of our directors, Lori D. Pressman, to assist us in conducting due diligence when evaluating potential investments. There is generally no publicly available information about the companies in which we invest, and we rely significantly on the diligence of our employees and advisers to obtain information in connection with our investment decisions. Our future success, to a significant extent, depends on the continued service and coordination of our senior management team, particularly on Douglas W. Jamison, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and a Managing Director; on Daniel B. Wolfe, our President, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer and a Managing Director; on Alexei A. Andreev, Executive Vice President and Managing Director; on Misti Ushio, a Vice President; and on Sandra M. Forman, our General Counsel, Chief Compliance Officer, Director of Human Resources and Corporate Secretary. The departure of any of our executive officers, key employees or advisers could materially adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy. We do not maintain for our benefit any key-man life insurance on any of our officers or employees. 23 Our failure to make follow-on investments in our portfolio companies could impair the value of our portfolio. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, we may make additional investments in that portfolio company as "follow-on" investments, in order to: (1) increase or maintain in whole or in part our ownership percentage; (2) exercise warrants, options or convertible securities that were acquired in the original or subsequent financing; or (3) attempt to preserve or enhance the value of our investment. We may elect not to make follow-on investments or lack sufficient funds to make such investments. We have the discretion to make any follow-on investments, subject to the availability of capital resources. The failure to make a follow-on investment may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company and our initial investment, or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation, or may cause us to lose some or all preferred rights pursuant to "pay-to-play" provisions that have become common in venture capital transactions. These provisions require proportionate investment in subsequent rounds of financing in order to preserve preferred rights such as anti-dilution protection, liquidation preferences and preemptive rights to invest in future rounds of financing. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make a follow-on investment because we may not want to increase our concentration of risk, because we prefer other opportunities or because we are inhibited by compliance with BDC requirements or the desire to maintain our tax status. Bank borrowing or the issuance of debt securities or preferred stock by us, to fund investments in portfolio companies or to fund our operating expenses, would make our total return to common shareholders more volatile. Use of debt or preferred stock as a source of capital entails two primary risks. The first is the risk of leverage, which is the use of debt to increase the pool of capital available for investment purposes. The use of debt leverages our available common equity capital, magnifying the impact on net asset value of changes in the value of our investment portfolio. For example, a BDC that uses 33 percent leverage (that is, $50 of leverage per $100 of common equity) will show a 1.5 percent increase or decline in net asset value for each one percent increase or decline in the value of its total assets. The second risk is that the cost of debt or preferred stock financing may exceed the return on the assets the proceeds are used to acquire, thereby diminishing rather than enhancing the return to common shareholders. If we issue preferred shares or debt, the common shareholders would bear the cost of this leverage. To the extent that we utilize debt or preferred stock financing for any purpose, these two risks would likely make our total return to common shareholders more volatile. In addition, we might be required to sell investments, in order to meet dividend, interest or principal payments, when it might be disadvantageous for us to do so. As provided in the 1940 Act and subject to some exceptions, we can issue debt or preferred stock so long as our total assets immediately after the issuance, less some ordinary course liabilities, exceed 200 percent of the sum of the debt and any preferred stock outstanding. The debt or preferred stock may be convertible in accordance with SEC guidelines, which might permit us to obtain leverage at more attractive rates. The requirement under the 1940 Act to pay, in full, dividends on preferred shares or interest on debt before any dividends may be paid on our common stock means that dividends on our common stock from earnings may be reduced or eliminated. An inability to pay dividends on our common stock could conceivably result in our ceasing to qualify as a RIC under the Code, which would in most circumstances be materially adverse to the holders of our common stock. As of December 31, 2010, we did not have any debt or preferred stock outstanding. As of February 24, 2011, we established a $10 million three-year revolving credit facility with TD Bank, N.A., to be used in conjunction with our investments in venture debt. We do not plan to use this credit facility in conjunction with any private venture capital equity investments. 24 We are authorized to issue preferred stock, which would convey special rights and privileges to its owners senior to those of common stock shareholders. We are currently authorized to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock, under terms and conditions determined by our Board of Directors. These shares would have a preference over our common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation. The statutory class voting rights of any preferred shares we would issue could make it more difficult for us to take some actions that might, in the future, be proposed by the Board and/or holders of common stock, such as a merger, exchange of securities, liquidation or alteration of the rights of a class of our securities, if these actions were perceived by the holders of the preferred shares as not in their best interests. The issuance of preferred shares convertible into shares of common stock might also reduce the net income and net asset value per share of our common stock upon conversion. Loss of status as a RIC could reduce our net asset value and distributable income. We have elected to qualify, qualified and intend to continue to qualify as a RIC under the Code. As a RIC, we do not have to pay federal income taxes on our income (including realized gains) that is distributed to our shareholders. Accordingly, we are not permitted under accounting rules to establish reserves for taxes on our unrealized capital gains. If we failed to qualify for RIC status in 2010 or beyond, we would be taxed in the same manner as an ordinary corporation and distributions to our shareholders would not be deductible in computing our taxable income, which would materially adversely impact the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders. In addition, to the extent that we had unrealized gains, we would have to establish reserves for taxes, which would reduce our net asset value, accordingly. To qualify again to be taxed as a RIC in a subsequent year, we would be required to distribute to our shareholders our earnings and profits attributable to non-RIC years reduced by an interest charge of 50 percent of such earnings and profits payable by us to the IRS. In addition, if we failed to qualify as a RIC for a period greater than two taxable years, then, in order to qualify as a RIC in a subsequent year, we would be required to elect to recognize and pay tax on any net built-in gain (the excess of aggregate gain, including items of income, over aggregate loss that would have been realized if we had sold our property to an unrelated party for fair market value) or, alternatively, be subject to taxation on such built-in gain recognized for a period of 10 years. In addition, if we, as a RIC, were to decide to make a deemed distribution of realized net capital gains and retain the net realized capital gains, also referred to as a deemed dividend, we would have to establish appropriate reserves for taxes that we would have to pay on behalf of shareholders. It is possible that establishing reserves for taxes could have a material adverse effect on the value of our common stock. Additionally, if we decide to make a deemed distribution and government regulation increases dividend tax rates for individuals and corporations, the net benefit to shareholders could be adversely affected. Such changes may decrease the value to shareholders that could be generated through our status as a RIC. 25 We operate in a heavily regulated environment, and changes to, or non-compliance with, regulations and laws could harm our business. We are subject to substantive SEC regulations as a BDC. Securities and tax laws and regulations governing our activities may change in ways adverse to our and our shareholders’ interests, and interpretations of these laws and regulations may change with unpredictable consequences. Any change in the laws or regulations that govern our business could have an adverse impact on us or on our operations. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, valuation, public disclosure and market regulation, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations, new federal accounting standards and Nasdaq Stock Market rules, create additional expense and uncertainty for publicly held companies in general, and for BDCs in particular. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases because of their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time, which may well result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have and will continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, our reputation may be harmed. This increased regulatory burden is causing us to incur significant additional expenses and is time consuming for our management, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Market prices of our common stock will continue to be volatile. We expect that the market price of our common stock price will continue to be volatile. The price of the common stock may be higher or lower than the price you pay for your shares, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include the following: • stock market and capital markets conditions; • internal developments in our Company with respect to our personnel, financial condition and compliance with all applicable regulations; • announcements regarding any of our portfolio companies; • announcements regarding developments in the nanotechnology or cleantech-related fields in general; • environmental and health concerns regarding nanotechnology, whether real or perceptual; 26 • announcements regarding government funding and initiatives related to the development of nanotechnology or cleantech-related products; • general economic conditions and trends; and/or • departures of key personnel. We will not have control over many of these factors, but expect that our stock price may be influenced by them. As a result, our stock price may be volatile, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Quarterly results fluctuate and are not indicative of future quarterly performance. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate as a result of a number of factors. These factors include, among others, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we and our portfolio companies encounter competition in our markets and general economic and capital markets conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any one quarter should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future quarters. To the extent that we do not realize income or choose not to retain after-tax realized capital gains, we will have a greater need for additional capital to fund our investments and operating expenses. As a RIC, we must annually distribute at least 90 percent of our investment company taxable income as a dividend and may either distribute or retain our realized net capital gains from investments. As a result, these earnings may not be available to fund investments. If we fail to generate net realized capital gains or to obtain funds from outside sources, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations as well as our ability to make follow-on and new investments. Because of the structure and objectives of our business, we generally expect to experience net operating losses and rely on proceeds from sales of investments and investment income from our venture debt to defray a significant portion of our operating expenses. Investment sales are unpredictable and may not occur. In addition, as a BDC, we are generally required to maintain a ratio of at least 200 percent of total assets to total borrowings and preferred stock, which may restrict our ability to borrow to fund these requirements. Lack of capital could curtail our investment activities or impair our working capital. Investment in foreign securities could result in additional risks. We may invest in foreign securities, and we currently have one investment in a foreign security. When we invest in securities of foreign issuers, we may be subject to risks not usually associated with owning securities of U.S. issuers. These risks can include fluctuations in foreign currencies, foreign currency exchange controls, social, political and economic instability, differences in securities regulation and trading, expropriation or nationalization of assets and foreign taxation issues. In addition, changes in government administrations or economic or monetary policies in the United States or abroad could result in appreciation or depreciation of our securities and could favorably or unfavorably affect our operations. It may also be more difficult to obtain and enforce a judgment against a foreign issuer. Any foreign investments made by us must be made in compliance with U.S. and foreign currency restrictions and tax laws restricting the amounts and types of foreign investments. 27 Although most of our investments are denominated in U.S. dollars, our investments that are denominated in a foreign currency are subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency may change in relation to the U.S. dollar, in which currency we maintain financial statements and valuations. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation and political developments. Investing in our stock is highly speculative and an investor could lose some or all of the amount invested. Our investment objective and strategies result in a high degree of risk in our investments and may result in losses in the value of our investment portfolio. Our investments in portfolio companies are highly speculative and, therefore, an investor in our common stock may lose his or her entire investment. The value of our common stock may decline and may be affected by numerous market conditions, which could result in the loss of some or all of the amount invested in our common stock. The securities markets frequently experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that affect market prices for securities of companies in general, and technology and very small capitalization companies in particular. Because of our focus on the technology and very small capitalization sectors, and because we are a very small capitalization company ourselves, our stock price is especially likely to be affected by these market conditions. General economic conditions, and general conditions in nanotechnology and in the semiconductor and information technology, life science, materials science and other high-technology industries, including cleantech, may also affect the price of our common stock. Our shares might trade at discounts from net asset value or at premiums that are unsustainable over the long term. Shares of BDCs like us may, during some periods, trade at prices higher than their net asset value and during other periods, as frequently occurs with closed-end investment companies, trade at prices lower than their net asset value. The possibility that our shares will trade at discounts from net asset value or at premiums that are unsustainable over the long term are risks separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share will decrease. The risk of purchasing shares of a BDC that might trade at a discount or unsustainable premium is more pronounced for investors who wish to sell their shares in a relatively short period of time because, for those investors, realization of a gain or loss on their investments is likely to be more dependent upon changes in premium or discount levels than upon increases or decreases in net asset value per share. Our common stock may not trade at a price higher than or equal to net asset value per share. On December 31, 2010, our stock closed at $4.38 per share, a discount of $0.38 to our net asset value per share of $4.76 as of December 31, 2010. 28 The Board of Directors intends to grant stock options to our employees pursuant to the Company's Equity Incentive Plan. When exercised, these options may have a dilutive effect on existing shareholders. In accordance with the Company’s Equity Incentive Plan, the Company’s Board of Directors may grant options from time to time for up to 20 percent of the total shares of stock issued and outstanding. When options are exercised, net asset value per share will decrease if the net asset value per share at the time of exercise is higher than the exercise price. Alternatively, net asset value per share will increase if the net asset value per share at the time of exercise is lower than the exercise price. Therefore, existing shareholders will be diluted if the net asset value per share at the time of exercise is higher than the exercise price of the options. Even though issuance of shares pursuant to exercises of options increases the Company's capital, and regardless of whether such issuance results in increases or decreases in net asset value per share, such issuance results in existing shareholders owning a smaller percentage of the shares outstanding. You have no right to require us to repurchase your shares. You do not have the right to require us to repurchase your shares of common stock. The market price of our shares of common stock may be adversely affected by the sale of shares by our management or large shareholders. Sales of our shares of common stock by our officers through 10b5-1 plans or by large shareholders could adversely and unpredictably affect the price of those securities. Additionally, the price of our shares of common stock could be affected even by the potential for sales by these persons. We cannot predict the effect that any future sales of our common stock, or the potential for those sales, will have on our share price. Furthermore, due to relatively low trading volume of our stock, should one or more large stockholders seek to sell a significant portion of its stock in a short period of time, the price of our stock may decline. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in offerings, such as follow-on public offerings, registered direct or PIPE transactions, or rights offerings, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 29 