D. Risk Factors The following risk factors, among others, could in the future affect our actual results of operations and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and we assume no obligation to update this information. Before you decide to buy, hold, or sell our ordinary shares, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained elsewhere in this annual report. The following risk factors are not the only risk factors facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. Our business, financial condition and results of operation could be seriously harmed if any of the events underlying any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs. In that event, the price for our ordinary shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 2 Risk Factors Relating to Our Business We have a history of operating losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. Although we generated operating income of $70,000 in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, we incurred an operating loss in each of the preceding five fiscal years, and incurred a $815,000 net loss in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitable operations in the future. Even if we maintain profitability, we cannot assure that future net income will offset our cumulative losses, which, as of December 31, 2011, were approximately $102.8 million. We depend on strategic relationships with our distributors, OEM and VAR partners and our revenues may be reduced if such relationships are not successful or terminated. In particular, a loss of one of our OEM partners may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our products and services are sold through both direct and indirect channels, including distributors, value-added resellers, or VAR, and original equipment manufacturers, or OEM, partners. Specifically, we rely on strategic relationships with OEM partners and resellers to sell our products and services and these relationships are likely to account for a larger portion of our revenues in the future. Typically, where our fees depend on orders of products (and not fixed license fees), these parties are not obligated to sell any of our products. Any failure of these relationships to market our products effectively or generate significant revenues for us, a termination of any of these relationships, or if we are unable to form additional strategic alliances in the future that will prove beneficial to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. In particular, we rely on our strategic relationship with Microsoft Corporation, or Microsoft. In December 2010, we entered into two five–year OEM agreements with Microsoft for aggregate consideration of nearly $9 million. We expect Microsoft to continue to be strategic to our business and future growth. A termination or other disruption of our commercial relationship with Microsoft could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The loss of one or more of our significant customers or a decline in demand from one or more of these customers could harm our business. Historically, we have relied on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our total sales. In 2011, Microsoft accounted for 13.4% of our revenues and another strategic customer accounted for 10.7% of our revenues. There can be no assurance that such customers will continue to order our products in the same level or at all. A reduction or delay in orders from such customers, including reductions or delays due to market, economic or competitive conditions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We face risks associated with the acquisition of RepliWeb. In September 2011, we completed the acquisition of RepliWeb. In connection with this acquisition, we face risks commonly encountered with acquisitions, including disruption of our ongoing business; difficulty in integrating acquired operations and personnel; inability of our management to maximize our financial and strategic position by the successful implementation of uniform product offerings and the incorporation of uniform technology into our product offerings and control system; being subject to known or unknown contingent liabilities, including litigation, costs, tax and expenses; and inability to realize expected synergies or other anticipated benefits. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with this acquisition. Our inability to successfully integrate the operations of RepliWeb and realize anticipated benefits associated with the acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 3 We may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us. We had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $1.5 million as of December 31, 2011 and current maturities of long-term loans of approximately $0.95 million. Although we anticipate that our existing capital resources will be adequate to satisfy our working capital and capital expenditure requirements until at least March 2013, we may need to raise additional funds in the future in order to satisfy our future working capital and capital expenditure requirements. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional funds on a timely basis, on acceptable terms or at all. If we cannot raise needed funds on acceptable terms, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate some aspects of our operations and we may not be able to: · develop new products; · enhance our existing products; · remain current with evolving industry standards; · expand our sales and marketing programs; · take advantage of future opportunities; · respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements; · in connection with the acquisition of RepliWeb, timely pay former RepliWeb shareholders a milestone-based contingent cash payment of up to $2.0 million which is payable in April 2013; or · successfully integrate the operations of RepliWeb. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of then current shareholders would be diluted. We may be required to pay additional taxes due to tax positions that we undertook. We operate our business in various countries, and we attempt to utilize an efficient operating model to optimize our tax payments based on the laws in the countries in which we operate. This can cause disputes between us and various tax authorities in the countries in which we operate whether due to tax positions that we have taken regarding filing of various tax returns or in cases where we determined not to file tax returns. In particular, not all of the tax returns of our operations are final and may be subject to further audit and assessment by the applicable tax authorities. There can be no assurance that the applicable tax authorities will accept our tax positions. In such event, we may be required to pay additional taxes, as a result of which, our future results may be adversely affected. Severe global economic conditions may materially adversely affect our business. Our business and financial condition is substantially affected by global economic conditions. Starting in late 2008 and lasting through much of 2009, a steep downturn in the global economy sparked by uncertainty in credit markets and deteriorating consumer confidence, reduced technology spending by many organizations. More recently, credit and sovereign debt issues have destabilized certain European economies as well and thereby increased global macroeconomic uncertainties. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions continues to pose a risk as customers may postpone or reduce spending in response to restraints on credit. Should the economic slowdown resume and/or companies in our target markets reduce capital expenditures, it may cause our customers to reduce or postpone their technology spending significantly, which could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 4 We are subject to risks associated with international operations. We are based in Israel and generate a large portion of our sales outside the United States. Our sales outside of the United States accounted for approximately 29%, 40% and 38% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Although we commit significant management time and financial resources to developing direct and indirect international sales and support channels, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. To the extent that we cannot do so in a timely manner, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. As we conduct business globally, our future results could also be adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors and inherent risks, including the following: · the impact of the recessionary environments in multiple foreign markets, such as in some European countries; · longer receivables collection periods and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; · reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; · potential tax consequences; and · political and economic instability. We cannot be certain that we, our distributors or our resellers will be able to sustain or increase revenues from international operations or that the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and, as a result, on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business and operating results may be adversely affected by competition, including as a result of consolidation of our competitors. The market for our software products is fragmented and intensely competitive. Competition in the industry is generally based on product performance, depth of product line, technical support and price. We compete both with international and local software providers, many of whom have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. In the fields of application release automation, web deployment and enterprise file replication, we also compete with providers of open source and freeware solutions, which are substantially less expensive than our solutions. We anticipate continued growth and competition in the software products market. In the past few years, we have identified a trend of consolidation in the software industry in general, and in the real-time data integration and event capture market in particular. For example, in July 2011, Informatica Corporation acquired Wisdom Force. Consolidation and mergers in our market may result in stronger competition by larger companies that threaten our market positioning. 5 Our existing and potential competitors, such as IBM, Informatica, Oracle (following the acquisition of Golden Gate), iWay software and HP, who compete with different products we offer, may offer or be able to develop software products and services that are as effective as, or more effective or easier to use than, those offered by us. Such existing and potential competitors may also enjoy substantial advantages over us in terms of research and development expertise, manufacturing efficiency, name recognition, sales and marketing expertise and distribution channels, as well as financial resources. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and, consequently, on our business, operating results and financial condition. We must develop new products as well as enhancements and new features to existing products to remain competitive and our future growth will depend upon market acceptance of our products. We compete in a market that is characterized by technological changes and improvements and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. The introduction of new technologies and products could render existing products and services obsolete and unmarketable and could exert price pressures on our products and services. Any future success and our future growth will depend upon our ability to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers by, among others: · supporting existing and emerging hardware, software, databases and networking platforms; · developing and introducing new and enhanced applications that keep pace with such technological developments, emerging new markets and changing customer requirements; and · gaining and consecutively increasing market acceptance of our products. We are currently developing new products as well as enhancements and new features to our existing products, including the new Attunity Replicate, new solutions for cloud computing and other integrated products with technology initially developed by RepliWeb. We may not be able to successfully complete the development and market introduction of new products or product enhancements or new features. If we fail to develop and deploy new products and product enhancements or features on a timely basis or if we fail to gain market acceptance of our new products, our revenues will decline and we may lose market share to our competitors. For example, in late 2005, we launched Attunity InFocus, and, following significant investments in developing and marketing of this product which have not resulted in generating strong demand for this product, we determined to end the sales of this product in the end of 2008. We are subject to risks relating to proprietary rights and risks of infringement. We are dependent upon our proprietary software technology and we rely primarily on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. Except for our trademark registrations in the United States, and one registered patent which we do not view as material, we do not have any other registered trademarks, patents or copyrights. To protect our software, documentation and other written materials, we rely on trade secret and copyright laws, which afford only limited protection. It is possible that others will develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. It is difficult to police the unauthorized use of products in our field, and we expect software piracy to be a persistent problem, although we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software products exists. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. We cannot be certain that our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the United States or abroad will be adequate or that our competition will not independently develop similar technology. 6 We are not aware that we have infringed any proprietary rights of third parties. It is possible, however, that third parties will claim that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights. We believe that software product developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. It would be time consuming for us to defend any such claims, with or without merit, and any such claims could: · result in costly litigation; · divert management’s attention and resources; · cause product shipment delays; and · require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If there is a successful claim of infringement against us and we are not able to license the infringed or similar technology or other intellectual property, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. We incorporate open source technology in our products which may expose us to liability and have a material impact on our product development and sales. Some of our products utilize open source technologies. These technologies are licensed to us under varying license structures, including the General Public License. If we have improperly integrated, or in the future improperly integrate software that is subject to such licenses into our products, in such a way that our software becomes subject to the General Public License or similar licenses, we may be required to disclose our own source code to the public. This could enable our competitors to eliminate any technological advantage that our products may have over theirs. Any such requirement to disclose our source code or other confidential information related to our products could materially and adversely affect our competitive position and impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our products are unable to interoperate with hardware and software technologies developed and maintained by third parties that are not within our control, our ability to develop and sell our products to our customers could be adversely affected, which would result in harm to our business and operating results. Our products are designed to interoperate with and provide access to a wide range of third-party developed and maintained hardware and software technologies, which are used by our customers. The future design and development plans of the third parties that maintain these technologies are not within our control and may not be in line with our future product development plans. We may also rely on such third parties, particularly certain third-party developers of database and application software products, to provide us with access to these technologies so that we can properly test and develop our products to interoperate with the third-party technologies. These third parties may in the future refuse or otherwise be unable to provide us with the necessary access to their technologies. In addition, these third parties may decide to design or develop their technologies in a manner that would not be interoperable with our own. If any of the situations described above were to occur, we would not be able to continue to market our products as interoperable with such third-party hardware and software, which could adversely affect our ability to successfully sell our products to our customers. 7 Our products may contain defects that may be costly to correct, delay market acceptance of our products, harm our reputation and expose us to litigation. Despite testing by us, errors may be found in our software products. If defects are discovered, we may not be able to successfully correct them in a timely manner, or at all. Defects and failures in our products could result in a loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products and could damage our reputation. Although our standard license agreement with our customers contains provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, it is possible that these provisions may not be effective or enforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions, and we could fail to realize revenues and suffer damage to our reputation as a result of, or in defense of, a substantial claim. Our products have a lengthy sales cycle. Our customers typically use our products to deploy applications that are critical to their business. As a result, the licensing and implementation of our products generally involves a significant commitment of attention and resources by prospective customers. Because of the long approval process that typically accompanies strategic initiatives or capital expenditures by companies, our sales process is often delayed, with little or no control over any delays encountered by us. Our sales cycle can be further extended for sales made through third party distributors. We cannot control such delays and cannot control the timing of sales cycles or our sales revenue, especially in light of the current global economic recession. Delay in the sales cycle of our products could result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. A portion of our revenues is dependent on maintenance payments from customers using our legacy products. Approximately 5.0%, 9.7% and 10.0% of our total revenues in the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, were derived from annual maintenance fees made by customers who use our legacy software products. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, these revenues on a consolidated basis totaled approximately $0.7 million, $1.0 million and $0.9 million, respectively. Some of these customers may replace these legacy products with more advanced products from other vendors and, as a result, discontinue use of these products, which, in turn, would result in a continued reduction in our maintenance revenues from these products which could adversely affect our operating results. Declines in our share price or operating performance could result in a future impairment of our goodwill or long-lived assets. In accordance with applicable accounting principles and relevant guidance published from time to time, we assess potential impairments to goodwill annually and when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment condition may exist. We also assess potential impairments to our long-lived assets, including property and equipment and capitalized software, when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. If the value of our market capitalization falls below the value of our shareholders' equity, or actual results of operation materially differ from our expectations, it might require us to recognize an impairment loss of goodwill or long lived assets. Consequently, our future results could be adversely affected by changes in events and circumstances that would result in the event of such impairments. Our operating results fluctuate significantly and are affected by seasonality. Our quarterly results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. Our future operating results will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, the following: · the size and timing of significant orders and their timely fulfillment; 8 · demand for our products; · seasonal trends and general domestic and international economic and political conditions, among others; · changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; · the number, timing and significance of product enhancements; · new product announcements by us and our competitors; · our ability to successfully market newly acquired products and technologies; · our ability to develop, introduce and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; · changes in the level of our operating expenses; · budgeting cycles of our customers; · customer order deferrals in anticipation of enhancements or new products that we or our competitors offer; · product life cycles; · software bugs and other product quality problems; · personnel changes; · changes in our strategy; · currency exchange rate fluctuations and economic conditions in the geographic areas where we operate; and · the inherent uncertainty in marketing new products or technologies. Due to the foregoing factors, quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast, and it is likely that our future operating results will be affected by these or other factors. Revenues are also difficult to forecast because our sales cycle, from initial evaluation to purchase, is lengthy and varies substantially from customer to customer. In light of the foregoing, we cannot predict revenues for any future quarter with any significant degree of accuracy and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not necessarily be meaningful. We have often recognized a substantial portion of our revenues in the first and last quarters of the year and in the last month, or even weeks or days, of a quarter. Our expense levels are relatively fixed in the short term. If revenue levels fall below expectations, our quarterly results are likely to be disproportionately adversely affected because a proportionately smaller amount of our expenses varies with our revenues. Our operating results reflect seasonal trends and we expect to continue to be affected by such trends in the future, primarily in the third quarter ending September 30, when we expect to continue to experience relatively lower sales mainly as a result of reduced sales activity during the summer months. Due to the foregoing factors, in some future quarter our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In such event, it is likely that the price of our ordinary shares would be materially adversely affected. 9 The loss of the services of our key personnel would negatively affect our business. Our future success depends to a large extent on the continued services of our senior management and key personnel, including, in particular, Mr. Alon, the Chairman of our board of directors and our Chief Executive Officer. Any loss of the services of members of our senior management or other key personnel, and especially those of Mr. Alon, would adversely affect our business. Our freedom to operate our business is limited as a result of certain restrictive covenants contained in our Convertible Notes. We are a party to the Note Agreement, pursuant to which we issued the Convertible Notes. The Convertible Notes contain a number of restrictive covenants that limit our operating flexibility, primarily limitations on the incurrence of indebtedness. Such obligations may hinder our future operations or the manner in which we operate our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Although our internal control over financial reporting was considered effective as of December 31, 2011, there is no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will continue to be effective in the future, which could result in our financial statements being unreliable, government investigation or loss of investor confidence in our financial reports. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX, imposes certain duties on us. Our efforts to comply with the management assessment requirements of Section 404(a) of SOX have resulted in a devotion of management time and attention to compliance activities, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. We may also identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our internal control over financial reporting has not and is not required to be audited by our independent registered public accounting firm. In the future, if we are unable to assert that our internal controls are effective, our investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could also result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities. Risk Factors Relating to Our Ordinary Shares Provisions of the Plenus Loan may make an acquisition of us more costly or difficult, which could depress the price of our shares. Pursuant to the Plenus Loan, if on or before December 31, 2017, we enter into a Fundamental Transaction, which is defined to include a sale through a merger, selling all or substantially all of our assets, or a transaction in which a person or entity acquires more than 50% of our outstanding shares, then we will be required to pay Plenus an amount equal to, in general, the higher of $300,000 or 15% of the aggregate proceeds payable to our shareholders or us in connection with such Fundamental Transaction. As a result, an acquisition of our company that triggers the said payments will be more costly to a potential acquirer and these provisions, taken as a whole, may have the effect of making an acquisition of our company more difficult. In addition, these provisions could cause our ordinary shares to trade at prices below the price for which third parties might be willing to pay to gain control of us. 10 Provisions of our OEM agreements with Microsoft may make an acquisition of us more difficult, which could depress the price of our shares. Pursuant to the OEM agreements we entered with Microsoft with respect to our change data capture, or CDC, and open database connectivity, or ODBC, technologies, Microsoft is entitled to a right of first offer, whereby we are required to notify Microsoft in the event that we wish to sell our company or sell or grant an exclusive license of the technology underlying the CDC or ODBC products, as the case may be, and, if the offer is accepted by Microsoft, negotiate such transaction with Microsoft, or, if rejected by Microsoft, we may enter into such transaction with a third party only on substantially the same or more favorable terms than the initial offer made by us to Microsoft. Microsoft is also entitled to terminate the OEM agreements under certain circumstances, including upon a change of control of our company. These provisions, taken as a whole, may have the effect of making an acquisition of our company more difficult. In addition, these provisions could cause our ordinary shares to trade at prices below the price for which third parties might be willing to pay to gain control of us. Our directors and executive officers own a substantial percentage of our ordinary shares. As of March 1, 2012, our directors and executive officers beneficially own approximately 22.9% of our outstanding ordinary shares. As a result, if these shareholders acted together, they could exert significant influence on the election of our directors and on decisions by our shareholders on matters submitted to shareholder vote, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership of our ordinary shares could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, or other purchases of our ordinary shares that might otherwise give our shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for our ordinary shares. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our share price. Issuance of a significant amount of additional ordinary shares on exercise or conversion of outstanding warrants and Convertible Notes and/or substantial future sales of our ordinary shares may depress our share price. As of March 1, 2012, we had approximately 41.4 million ordinary shares issued and outstanding and approximately 11.6 million of additional ordinary shares which are issuable upon exercise of outstanding employee options, warrants, rights to subscribe for shares and upon the conversion of our Convertible Notes. The issuance of a significant amount of additional ordinary shares on account of these outstanding securities will dilute our current shareholders’ holdings and may depress our share price. In addition, the lock-up period, during which former RepliWeb shareholders are restricted from selling approximately 4.0 million ordinary shares we issued to them in connection with the acquisition, will expire in June 2012. If these or other shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ordinary shares, including shares issuable upon the exercise or conversion of outstanding warrants, rights to subscribe for shares, Convertible Notes or employee options, or if the perception exists that our shareholders may sell a substantial number of our ordinary shares, we cannot foresee the impact of any potential sales on the market price of these additional ordinary shares, but it is possible that the market price of our ordinary shares would be adversely affected. Any substantial sales of our shares in the public market might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity related securities in the future at a time and on terms we deem appropriate. Even if a substantial number of sales do not occur, the mere existence of this “market overhang” could have a negative impact on the market for, and the market price of, our ordinary shares. 11 The limited market for our shares may reduce their liquidity and make our stock price more volatile. You may have difficulty selling your shares. In February 2008, our ordinary shares were delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market and, since February 26, 2008, they have been quoted on the OTCBB, an electronic quotation medium regulated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Securities traded on the OTCBB typically have low trading volumes. Market fluctuations and volatility, as well as general economic, market and political conditions, could reduce our share price. As a result, there may be only a limited public market for our ordinary shares, and it may be more difficult to dispose of or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our ordinary shares. In addition, unlike the NASDAQ Stock Market and the various international stock exchanges, there are no corporate governance requirements imposed on OTCBB-traded companies. While we recently announced our plan to relist our ordinary shares on a national exchange, such as NYSE Amex or NASDAQ, execution of this plan is subject to market conditions and satisfaction of the applicable listing criteria. Our share price has been volatile in the past and may decline in the future. Our ordinary shares have experienced significant market price and volume fluctuations in the past and may experience significant market price and volume fluctuations in the future in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: · quarterly variations in our operating results; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance and cash position, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; · announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · changes in the status of our intellectual property rights; · announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; and · future sales of our ordinary shares. In particular, the lock-up period, during which former RepliWeb shareholders are restricted from selling approximately 4.0 million ordinary shares we issued to them in connection with the acquisition, will expire in June 2012. Domestic and international stock markets and electronic trading platforms often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations or political events or hostilities in or surrounding Israel, could also adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares. 12 Our ordinary shares may become subject to the “penny stock” rules of the SEC which will make transactions in our ordinary shares cumbersome and may reduce the value of our shares. The SEC has adopted Rule 3a51-1 under the Exchange Act which establishes the definition of a "penny stock," for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. While we believe that our ordinary shares are currently exempt from the definition of penny stock, there is no assurance that they will continue to be exempt from such definition. If our ordinary shares become subject to the “penny stock” rules of the SEC, it will make transactions in our ordinary shares cumbersome and may reduce the value of our shares. This is because for any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act generally requires: · that a broker or dealer approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks; and · the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: · obtain financial information and investment experience objectives of the person; and · make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: · sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and · that the broker or dealer received a signed, written statement from the investor prior to the transaction. Disclosure also has to be made by the broker or dealer about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the "penny stock" rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our ordinary shares and cause a decline in our market value if we were to become subject to the said "penny stock" rules. We do not intend to pay cash dividends. Our policy is to retain earnings for use in our business. We have never declared or paid cash dividends, and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Risk Factors Relating to Our Operations in Israel Security, political and economic instability in the Middle East may harm our business. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, and our principal offices and research and development facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, security, political and economic conditions in the Middle East in general, and in Israel in particular, directly affect our business. 13 Over the past several decades, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since late 2000, there has also been a high level of violence between Israel and the Palestinians which has strained Israel’s relationship with its Arab citizens, Arab countries and, to some extent, with other countries around the world. Terrorist attacks and hostilities within Israel as well as tensions between Israel and Iran, have also heightened these risks. Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. In addition, since early 2011, riots and popular uprisings in various countries in the Middle East have led to severe political instability in those countries. This instability may lead to deterioration of the political and trade relationships that exist between the State of Israel and these countries. In addition, this instability may affect the global economy and marketplace. Any armed conflicts or political instability in the region, including acts of terrorism or any other hostilities involving or threatening Israel, would likely negatively affect business conditions and could make it more difficult for us to conduct our operations in Israel, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our financial results. Furthermore, some neighboring countries, as well as certain companies and organizations, continue to participate in a boycott of Israeli firms and others doing business with Israel or with Israeli companies. Restrictive laws, policies or practices directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses could have an adverse impact on the expansion of our business. In addition, we could be adversely affected by the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners, a significant increase in the rate of inflation, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. Our financial results may be adversely affected by currency fluctuations. Since we report our financial results in dollars, fluctuations in rates of exchange between the dollar and non-dollar currencies may have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. We generate a majority of our revenues in dollars or in dollar-linked currencies, but some of our revenues are generated in other currencies such as the NIS, the British Pound Sterling and the Hong-Kong Dollar. As a result, some of our financial assets are denominated in these currencies, and fluctuations in these currencies could adversely affect our financial results. In addition, a large portion of our expenses, principally salaries and related personnel expenses, are paid in NIS. During 2011, we witnessed a strengthening of the average exchange rate of the NIS against the dollar, which increased the dollar value of Israeli expenses. If the NIS continues to strengthen against the dollar, as happened in 2011, the value of our Israeli expenses will increase. While we engage, from time to time, in currency hedging transactions intended to reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our results of operations, we cannot guarantee that such measures will adequately protect us against currency fluctuations in the future. Although exposure to currency fluctuations to date has not had a material adverse effect on our business, there can be no assurance such fluctuations in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Because we received grants from the Israeli Office of the Chief Scientist, we are subject to ongoing restrictions. We received royalty-bearing grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, or the Chief Scientist, for research and development programs that meet specified criteria. Since December 31, 2006, we have no further obligation to pay royalties to the Chief Scientist in respect of sales of our products. However, the terms of the Chief Scientist’s grants limit our ability to transfer know-how developed under an approved research and development program outside of Israel, regardless of whether the royalties were fully paid. In addition, any non-Israeli citizen, resident or entity that, among other things, becomes a holder of 5% or more of our share capital or voting rights, is entitled to appoint one or more of our directors or our chief executive officer, serves as a director of our company or as our chief executive officer, is generally required to notify the same to the Chief Scientist and to undertake to observe the law governing the grant programs of the Chief Scientist, the principal restrictions of which are the transferability limits described above. 14 It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against our officers, our directors and us or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel. Service of process upon us, our Israeli subsidiaries and our directors and officers, substantially all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, because the majority of our assets and investments, and substantially all of our directors and officers are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of them may not be collectible within the United States. We have been advised by our legal counsel in Israel that it may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. Subject to specified time limitations and legal procedures, under the rules of private international law currently prevailing in Israel, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. final judgment in a civil matter, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws and including a monetary or compensatory judgment in a non-civil matter, provided that: · the judgment is enforceable in the state in which it was given; · adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to present his arguments and evidence; · the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; · the judgment was not obtained by fraud and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; and · an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the U.S. court. Provisions of our articles of association and of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. The provisions in our articles of association relating to the submission of shareholder proposals for shareholders meetings, and requiring a special majority voting in order to amend certain provisions of our articles of association relating to such proposals as well as to election and removal of directors, may have the effect of delaying or making an acquisition of our company more difficult. In addition, provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making an acquisition of our company more difficult. For example, under the Companies Law, upon the request of a creditor of either party to a proposed merger, the court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there exists a reasonable concern that as a result of the merger the surviving company will be unable to satisfy the obligations of any of the parties to the merger. These provisions could cause our ordinary shares to trade at prices below the price for which third parties might be willing to pay to gain control of us. Third parties who are otherwise willing to pay a premium over prevailing market prices to gain control of us may be unable or unwilling to do so because of these provisions of Israeli law. 15 Free trade agreements between Israel and the United States and the European Union may be terminated or changed. Israel has the benefit of a free trade agreement with the United States which, generally, permits tariff-free access into the United States for products produced by us in Israel. In addition, as a result of an agreement entered into by Israel with the European Union, or the EU, and countries remaining in the European Free Trade Association, or EFTA, the EU and EFTA have abolished customs duties on Israeli industrial products. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be terminated, changed, amended or otherwise declared non-applicable to all or some of our Israeli operations, and accordingly, materially harm our businesses. 