D. Risk Factors The following risk factors, among others, could in the future affect our actual results of operations and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and we assume no obligation to update this information. Before you decide to buy, hold, or sell our ordinary shares, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained elsewhere in this annual report. The following risk factors are not the only risk factors facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. Our business, financial condition and results of operation could be seriously harmed if any of the events underlying any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs. In that event, the price for our ordinary shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 2 Risk Factors Relating to Our Business We have a history of operating losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We incurred an operating loss of $58,000 in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 and, while we generated operating income in the prior two fiscal years, we incurred operating losses in the past. Our ability to achieve and sustain profitability in the future depends in part on the rate of growth of, and changes in technology trends in, our market; the global economy; our ability to develop new products and technologies in a timely manner; the competitive position of our products; our ability to manage expenses; and other risks, some of which are described in this annual report. We may also seek to increase our operating expenses and make additional expenditures in anticipation of generating higher revenues, which we may not realize, if at all, until sometime in the future. As such, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitable operations in the future. Even if we maintain profitability, we cannot assure that future net income will offset our cumulative losses, which, as of December 31, 2013, were approximately $102.0 million. We depend on strategic relationships with our distributors, OEM, VAR and other business partners and our revenues may be reduced if such relationships are not successful or are terminated. In particular, a loss of one of our OEM partners may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our products and services are sold through both direct and indirect channels, including distributors, original equipment manufacturers, or OEM, value-added resellers, or VAR, and other business partners. Specifically, we rely on strategic relationships with OEM and other business partners and resellers to sell our products and services and these relationships are likely to account for a larger portion of our revenues in the future. Typically, where our fees depend on orders of products (and not fixed license fees), these parties are not obligated to sell any of our products. Any failure of these relationships to market our products effectively or generate significant revenues for us, a termination of any of these relationships, or if we are unable to form additional strategic alliances in the future that will prove beneficial to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In particular, we rely on our strategic relationship with Microsoft Corporation, or Microsoft. For example, in December 2010, we entered into two five–year OEM agreements with Microsoft for aggregate consideration of nearly $9 million. We expect Microsoft to continue to be strategic to our business and future growth. A termination or other disruption of our commercial relationship with Microsoft could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our ability to expand our business into the SAP market and the success of our Gold Client offering depend on our relationship with SAP, including our ability to maintain our status as a SAP Software Solution and Technology Partner. On December 18, 2013, we acquired Hayes, a leading U.S.-based provider of data replication software for the market in which SAP AG, or SAP, operates, including Hayes' flagship product, Gold Client®, a globally-recognized software solution in the SAP data replication market. Through Hayes, we maintain a status of a "SAP Software Solution and Technology Partner" and our Gold Client solutions have achieved several certifications from SAP, including, most recently, as a certified integration with the SAP® ERP 6.0 application running on the SAP HANA® platform. The success of our Gold Client offering is dependent to a large extent on our relationship with SAP and, in particular, our ability to maintain these certifications and, where appropriate, our ability to obtain additional certifications from SAP for our future SAP related offerings. This is primarily because an installation of SAP solutions is considered as a sizeable investment and current and prospective customers tend to view these certifications as valuable when making capital expenditure decisions related to their SAP solution-based environment. If we fail to maintain our status as a SAP Software Solution and Technology Partner or, where appropriate, obtain additional certifications from SAP for our future SAP related offerings, our business and operating results, especially our ability to expand our business into the SAP market and the sales of our Gold Client offering, could be adversely affected. 3 Our business and operating results depend in part on the successful and timely implementation of our third party partner solutions. We rely on our strategic partners to extend the functionality and facilitate the wider adoption of our software solutions. Specifically, our software solutions, which are designed to enable access, sharing, replication, management, consolidation and distribution of data across heterogeneous enterprise platforms, organizations and the cloud, are often licensed or incorporated as part of a broader offering through our strategic partners. As a result, our revenue and financial results depend in part on the timely and successful implementation of our partners’ solutions. To the extent our partners’ deliverables are not met in a timely manner or at all, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The loss of one or more of our significant customers or a decline in demand from one or more of these customers could harm our business. Historically, we have relied on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our total sales. For example, in 2012, Microsoft, our largest customer for that year, accounted for 10.9% of our revenues. There can be no assurance that such customers will continue to order our products in the same level or at all. A reduction or delay in orders from such customers, including reductions or delays due to market, economic or competitive conditions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our products have a lengthy sales cycle. Our customers typically use our products to deploy applications that are critical to their business. As a result, the licensing and implementation of our products generally involves a significant commitment of attention and resources by prospective customers. Because of the long approval process that typically accompanies strategic initiatives or capital expenditures by companies, our sales process is often delayed, with little or no control over any delays encountered by us. Our sales cycle can be further extended for sales made through or with the involvement of third party distributors or partners. We cannot control such delays and cannot control the timing of sales cycles or our sales revenue. Delay in the sales cycle of our products could result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results or difficulty in forecasting revenues for any given period. We face risks associated with acquisition of businesses and technologies. We completed the acquisition of Hayes and RepliWeb in December 2013 and September 2011, respectively. As part of our growth strategy, we may continue to evaluate and pursue additional acquisitions of, or significant investments in, other complementary companies or technologies to increase our technological capabilities and expand our product offerings. Future acquisitions and the successful integration of new technologies, products, assets or businesses into our own would require significant attention from our management and could result in a diversion of resources from our existing business, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business operations. Other risks commonly encountered with acquisitions include disruption of our ongoing business; difficulties in integration of the acquired operations and personnel; inability of our management to maximize our financial and strategic position by the successful implementation of uniform product offerings and the incorporation of uniform technology into our product offerings and control system; being subject to known or unknown contingent liabilities, including taxes, expenses and litigation costs; and inability to realize expected synergies or other anticipated benefits. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems we may encounter in connection with the Hayes acquisition or other potential future acquisitions. Our inability to successfully integrate the operations of an acquired business and realize anticipated benefits associated with an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Acquisitions or other strategic transactions may also result in dilution to our existing shareholders if we issue additional equity securities as consideration and may increase our debt. We may also be required to amortize significant amounts of intangible assets or record impairment of goodwill in connection with future acquisitions, which would adversely affect our operating results. 4 Severe global economic conditions may materially adversely affect our business. Our business and financial condition is affected by global economic conditions and their impact on levels of spending by customers, which may be disproportionately affected by economic downturns. For example, starting in late 2008 and lasting through much of 2009, a steep downturn in the global economy sparked by uncertainty in credit markets and deteriorating consumer confidence, reduced technology spending by many organizations. More recently, credit and sovereign debt issues have destabilized certain European economies as well and thereby increased global macroeconomic uncertainties. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions continues to pose a risk as customers may postpone or reduce spending in response to restraints on credit. Should the economic slowdown resume and/or companies in our target markets reduce capital expenditures, it may cause our customers to reduce or postpone their technology spending significantly, which could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. In addition, if the market is flat and customers experience low visibility we may not be able to increase our sales (whether direct sales or indirect sales through our distributors). Each of the above scenarios would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are subject to risks associated with international operations. We are based in Israel and generate a large portion of our sales outside the United States. Our sales outside of the United States accounted for approximately 30%, 35% and 29% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Although we commit significant management time and financial resources to developing direct and indirect international sales and support channels, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. To the extent that we cannot do so in a timely manner, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. As we conduct business globally, our future results could also be adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors and inherent risks, including the following: · the impact of the recessionary environments in multiple foreign markets, such as in some European countries; · longer receivables collection periods and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; · reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; · potential tax consequences; and · political and economic instability. 5 We cannot be certain that we, our distributors or our resellers will be able to sustain or increase revenues from international operations or that the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and, as a result, on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business and operating results may be adversely affected by competition, including as a result of consolidation of our competitors. The markets for our software products are intensely competitive and, particularly in the file replication and application release automation markets, also fragmented. Competition in the industry is generally based on product performance, depth of product line, technical support and price. We compete both with international and local software providers, many of whom have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. In the fields of application release automation, web deployment and enterprise file replication, we also compete with providers of open source and freeware solutions, which are substantially less expensive than our solutions. We anticipate continued growth and competition in the software products market. In the past few years, we have identified a trend of consolidation in the software industry in general, and in the real-time data integration market in particular. For example, in July 2011, Informatica Corporation acquired WisdomForce, which engages, among other things, in data replication and loading, and in December 2013, IBM acquired Aspera, which engages, among other things, in the sale of managed file transfer solutions. Consolidation and mergers in our market may result in stronger competition by larger companies that threaten our market positioning. Our existing and potential competitors, such as IBM, Informatica, Oracle (following the acquisition of Golden Gate), SAP, EPI-USE and HP, who compete with different products or services we offer, may offer or be able to develop software products and services that are as effective as, or more effective or easier to use than, those offered by us. Such existing and potential competitors may also enjoy substantial advantages over us in terms of research and development expertise, manufacturing efficiency, name recognition, sales and marketing expertise and distribution channels, as well as financial resources. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and, consequently, on our business, operating results and financial condition. We must develop new products as well as enhancements and new features to existing products to remain competitive and our future growth will depend upon market acceptance of our products. We compete in a market that is characterized by technological changes and improvements and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. The introduction of new technologies and products could render existing products and services obsolete and unmarketable and could exert price pressures on our products and services. Any future success and our future growth will depend upon our ability to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers by, among others: · supporting existing and emerging hardware, software, databases and networking platforms; · developing and introducing new and enhanced applications that keep pace with such technological developments, emerging new markets and changing customer requirements; and · gaining and consecutively increasing market acceptance of our products. We are currently developing new products as well as enhancements and new features to our existing products, and new solutions for cloud computing and other integrated management products. We may not be able to successfully complete the development and market introduction of new products or product enhancements or new features. If we fail to develop and deploy new products and product enhancements or features on a timely basis or if we fail to gain market acceptance of our new products, our revenues will decline and we may lose market share to our competitors. For example, in late 2005, we launched Attunity InFocus, and, despite significant investments in developing and marketing of this product, demand was weak and we determined to end the sales of this product in the end of 2008. 6 Our products may contain defects that may be costly to correct, delay market acceptance of our products, harm our reputation and expose us to litigation. Despite testing by us, errors may be found in our software products. If defects are discovered, we may not be able to successfully correct them in a timely manner, or at all. Defects and failures in our products could result in a loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products and could damage our reputation. Although our standard license agreement with our customers contains provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, it is possible that these provisions may not be effective or enforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions, and we could fail to realize revenues and suffer damage to our reputation as a result of, or in defense of, a substantial claim. We are subject to risks relating to proprietary rights and risks of infringement. We are dependent upon our proprietary software technology and we rely primarily on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. Except for our trademark registrations in the United States, and one registered patent which we do not view as material, we do not have any other registered trademarks, patents or copyrights. To protect our software, documentation and other written materials, we rely on trade secret and copyright laws, which afford only limited protection. It is possible that others will develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. It is difficult to police the unauthorized use of products in our field, and we expect software piracy to be a persistent problem, although we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software products exists. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. We cannot be certain that our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the United States or abroad will be adequate or that our competition will not independently develop similar technology. We are not aware that we have infringed any proprietary rights of third parties. It is possible, however, that third parties will claim that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights. It would be time consuming for us to defend any such claims, with or without merit, and any such claims could: · result in costly litigation; · divert management’s attention and resources; · cause product shipment delays; and · require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If there is a successful claim of infringement against us and we are not able to license the infringed or similar technology or other intellectual property, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. 7 We incorporate open source technology in our products which may expose us to liability and have a material impact on our product development and sales. Some of our products utilize open source technologies. These technologies are licensed to us under varying license structures, including the General Public License. If we have improperly integrated, or in the future improperly integrate software that is subject to such licenses into our products, in such a way that our software becomes subject to the General Public License or similar licenses, we may be required to disclose our own source code to the public. This could enable our competitors to eliminate any technological advantage that our products may have over theirs. Any such requirement to disclose our source code or other confidential information related to our products could materially and adversely affect our competitive position and impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our products are unable to interoperate with hardware and software technologies developed and maintained by third parties that are not within our control, our ability to develop and sell our products to our customers could be adversely affected, which would result in harm to our business and operating results. Our products are designed to interoperate with and provide access to a wide range of third-party developed and maintained hardware and software technologies, which are used by our customers. The future design and development plans of the third parties that maintain these technologies are not within our control and may not be in line with our future product development plans. We may also rely on such third parties, particularly certain third-party developers of database and application software products, to provide us with access to these technologies so that we can properly test and develop our products to interoperate with the third-party technologies. These third parties may in the future refuse or otherwise be unable to provide us with the necessary access to their technologies. In addition, these third parties may decide to design or develop their technologies in a manner that would not be interoperable with our own. If any of the situations described above were to occur, we would not be able to continue to market our products as interoperable with such third-party hardware and software, which could adversely affect our ability to successfully sell our products to our customers. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us. We had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $16.5 million as of December 31, 2013. Although we anticipate that our existing capital resources will be adequate to satisfy our working capital and capital expenditure requirements in the next 12 months, we may need to raise additional funds in the future in order to satisfy our future working capital and capital expenditure requirements. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional funds on a timely basis, on acceptable terms or at all. If we cannot raise needed funds on acceptable terms, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate some aspects of our operations. In addition, if additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of then current shareholders would be diluted. We may be required to pay additional taxes due to tax positions that we undertook. We operate our business in various countries, and we attempt to utilize an efficient operating model to optimize our tax payments based on the laws in the countries in which we operate. This can cause disputes between us and various tax authorities in the countries in which we operate whether due to tax positions that we have taken regarding filing of various tax returns or in cases where we determined not to file tax returns. In particular, not all of the tax returns of our operations are final and may be subject to further audit and assessment by the applicable tax authorities. There can be no assurance that the applicable tax authorities will accept our tax positions. In such event, we may be required to pay additional taxes, as a result of which, our future results may be adversely affected. 8 Our operating results fluctuate significantly and are affected by seasonality. Our quarterly results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. Our future operating results will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, the following: · the size and timing of significant orders and their timely fulfillment; · demand for our products; · seasonal trends and general domestic and international economic and political conditions, among others; · changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; · the number, timing and significance of product enhancements; · new product announcements by us and our competitors; · our ability to successfully market newly acquired products and technologies; · our ability to develop, introduce and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; · changes in the level of our operating expenses; · budgeting cycles of our customers; · customer order deferrals in anticipation of enhancements or new products that we or our competitors offer; · product life cycles; · software bugs and other product quality problems; · personnel changes; · changes in our strategy; · currency exchange rate fluctuations and economic conditions in the geographic areas where we operate; and · the inherent uncertainty in marketing new products or technologies. Due to the foregoing factors, quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast, and it is likely that our future operating results will be affected by these or other factors. Revenues are also difficult to forecast because our sales cycle, from initial evaluation to purchase, is lengthy and varies substantially from customer to customer. In light of the foregoing, we cannot predict revenues for any future quarter with any significant degree of accuracy and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not necessarily be meaningful. 9 We have often recognized a substantial portion of our revenues in the last quarter of the year and in the last month, or even weeks or days, of a quarter. Our expense levels are relatively fixed in the short term. If revenue levels fall below expectations, our quarterly results are likely to be disproportionately adversely affected because a proportionately smaller amount of our expenses varies with our revenues. Our operating results reflect seasonal trends and we expect to continue to be affected by such trends in the future, primarily in the third quarter ending September 30, when we expect to continue to experience relatively lower sales mainly as a result of reduced sales activity during the summer months. Due to the foregoing factors, in some future quarter our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In such event, it is likely that the price of our ordinary shares would be materially adversely affected. The loss of the services of our key personnel would negatively affect our business. Our future success depends to a large extent on the continued services of our senior management and key personnel, including, in particular, Shimon Alon, the Chairman of our Board of Directors and our Chief Executive Officer. Any loss of the services of members of our senior management or other key personnel, and especially those of Mr. Alon, would adversely affect our business. Although our internal control over financial reporting was considered effective as of December 31, 2013, there is no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will continue to be effective in the future, which could result in our financial statements being unreliable, government investigation or loss of investor confidence in our financial reports. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX, imposes certain duties on us. Our efforts to comply with the management assessment requirements of Section 404(a) of SOX have resulted in a devotion of management time and attention to compliance activities, and as we expect to be subject to the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of SOX starting with the year ending December 31, 2014, these efforts are expected to require the continued commitment of significant resources. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. We may also identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, while we expect that our internal control over financial reporting would need to be audited by our independent registered public accounting firm starting the year ending December 31, 2014, such internal control has not and is not currently required to be audited. In the future, if we are unable to assert that our internal controls are effective, our investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could also result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities. Risk Factors Relating to Our Ordinary Shares Provisions of the Plenus Loan may make an acquisition of us more costly or difficult, which could depress the price of our shares. Pursuant to the loan agreement between Attunity and Plenus Technologies Ltd. (and certain of its affiliates, or Plenus), dated as of January 31, 2007, as amended, or the Plenus Loan, if on or before December 31, 2017, we enter into a “Fundamental Transaction”, which is defined to include a sale through a merger, selling all or substantially all of our assets, or a transaction in which a person or entity acquires more than 50% of our outstanding shares, then we will be required to pay Plenus an amount equal to, in general, the higher of $300,000 or 15% of the aggregate proceeds payable to our shareholders or us in connection with such Fundamental Transaction. Plenus' right to such payment, or the Plenus Right, remains outstanding despite us having repaid the Plenus Loan in full. As a result, an acquisition of our Company that triggers the Plenus Right will be more costly to a potential acquirer and these provisions, taken as a whole, may have the effect of making an acquisition of our Company more difficult. In addition, these provisions could cause our ordinary shares to trade at prices below the price for which third parties might be willing to pay to gain control of us. 10 Provisions of our OEM agreements with Microsoft may make an acquisition of us more difficult, which could depress the price of our shares. Pursuant to the OEM agreements we entered with Microsoft with respect to our CDC and open database connectivity, or ODBC, technologies, Microsoft is entitled to a right of first offer, whereby we are required to notify Microsoft in the event that we wish to sell our Company or sell or grant an exclusive license of the technology underlying the CDC or ODBC products, as the case may be, and, if the offer is accepted by Microsoft, negotiate such transaction with Microsoft, or, if rejected by Microsoft, we may enter into such transaction with a third party only on substantially the same or more favorable terms than the initial offer made by us to Microsoft. Microsoft is also entitled to terminate the OEM agreements under certain circumstances, including upon a change of control of our Company. These provisions, taken as a whole, may have the effect of making an acquisition of our Company more difficult. In addition, these provisions could cause our ordinary shares to trade at prices below the price for which third parties might be willing to pay to gain control of us. Our directors and executive officers own a substantial percentage of our ordinary shares. As of April 1, 2014, our directors and executive officers beneficially own approximately 19.1% of our outstanding ordinary shares. As a result, if these shareholders acted together, they could exert significant influence on the election of our directors and on decisions by our shareholders on matters submitted to shareholder vote, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership of our ordinary shares could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, or other purchases of our ordinary shares that might otherwise give our shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for our ordinary shares. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our share price. Issuance of a significant amount of additional ordinary shares upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights and/or substantial future sales of our ordinary shares may depress our share price. As of April 1, 2014, we had approximately 14.8 million ordinary shares issued and outstanding and approximately 2.0 million of additional ordinary shares which are issuable upon exercise of outstanding employee stock options and warrants. The issuance of a significant amount of additional ordinary shares on account of these outstanding securities will dilute our current shareholders’ holdings and may depress our share price. If our existing shareholders or holders of our options or warrants sell substantial amounts of our ordinary shares, the market price of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected. Any substantial sales of our shares in the public market might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity related securities in the future at a time and on terms we deem appropriate. Even if a substantial number of sales do not occur, the mere existence of this “market overhang” could have a negative impact on the market for, and the market price of, our ordinary shares. The market price of our ordinary shares may fluctuate and could be substantially affected by various factors. Our ordinary shares have experienced significant market price and volume fluctuations in the past and may experience significant market price and volume fluctuations in the future. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause our market price and trade volume to fluctuate and decrease, including the following factors: · quarterly variations in our operating results; 11 · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance and cash position, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; · announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · changes in the status of our intellectual property rights; · announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; and · future substantial sales of our ordinary shares. Domestic and international stock markets and electronic trading platforms often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations or political events or hostilities in or surrounding Israel, could also adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares. If securities analysts do not publish research, or if securities analysts or other third parties publish inaccurate or unfavorable research, about us, the price of our ordinary shares could decline. The trading market for our ordinary shares will rely in part on the research and reports that securities analysts and other third parties choose to publish about us. We do not control these analysts or other third parties. The price of our ordinary shares could decline if one or more securities analysts downgrade our ordinary shares or if one or more securities analysts or other third parties publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about us or cease publishing reports about us. Provisions of our articles of association and of Israeli law as well as the terms of compensation of some of our senior management may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of us, which could depress the price of our shares. The provisions in our articles of association relating to the submission of shareholder proposals for shareholders meetings, and requiring a special majority voting in order to amend certain provisions of our articles of association relating to such proposals as well as to election and removal of directors, may have the effect of delaying or making an acquisition of our Company more difficult. In addition, provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making an acquisition of our Company more difficult. For example, under the Israeli Companies Law, upon the request of a creditor of either party to a proposed merger, the court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there exists a reasonable concern that as a result of the merger the surviving company will be unable to satisfy the obligations of any of the parties to the merger. In addition, our executive officers and certain other key employees are entitled to certain benefits in connection with a change of control of the Company. These provisions could cause our ordinary shares to trade at prices below the price for which third parties might be willing to pay to gain control of us. Third parties who are otherwise willing to pay a premium over prevailing market prices to gain control of us may be unable or unwilling to do so because of these provisions of Israeli law. We do not intend to pay cash dividends. Our policy is to retain earnings for use in our business. We have never declared or paid cash dividends, and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. 12 Risk Factors Relating to Our Operations in Israel Security, political and economic instability in the Middle East may harm our business. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, and our principal offices and research and development facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, security, political and economic conditions in the Middle East in general, and in Israel in particular, directly affect our business. Over the past several decades, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since late 2000, there has also been a high level of violence between Israel and the Palestinians which has strained Israel’s relationship with its Arab citizens, Arab countries and, to some extent, with other countries around the world. Since the end of 2010 several countries in the region, including Egypt and Syria, have been experiencing increased political instability, which led to changes in government in some of these countries, the effects of which are currently difficult to assess. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among extremist groups in areas that neighbor Israel, such as Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon. This situation may potentially escalate in the future to violent events which may adversely affect Israel and us. This instability may lead to deterioration of the political and trade relationships that exist between the State of Israel and these countries. In addition, this instability may affect the global economy and marketplace. Any armed conflicts or political instability in the region, including acts of terrorism or any other hostilities involving or threatening Israel, would likely negatively affect business conditions and could make it more difficult for us to conduct our operations in Israel, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our financial results. Our commercial insurance does not cover losses that may occur as a result of events associated with the security situation in the Middle East, such as damages to our facilities resulting in disruption of our operations. Although the Israeli government currently covers the reinstatement value of direct damages that are caused by terrorist attacks or acts of war, we cannot assure you that this government coverage will be maintained or will be adequate in the event we submit a claim. Furthermore, some neighboring countries, as well as certain companies and organizations, continue to participate in a boycott of Israeli firms and others doing business with Israel or with Israeli companies. Similarly, Israeli companies are limited in conducting business with entities from several countries. For example, in 2008, the Israeli legislature passed a law forbidding any investments in entities that transact business with Iran. Restrictive laws, policies or practices directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses could have an adverse impact on the expansion of our business. In addition, we could be adversely affected by the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners, a significant increase in the rate of inflation, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. Our financial results may be adversely affected by currency fluctuations. Since we report our financial results in dollars, fluctuations in rates of exchange between the dollar and non-dollar currencies may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We generate a majority of our revenues in dollars or in dollar-linked currencies, but some of our revenues are generated in other currencies such as the Euro, the British Pound Sterling, the Hong-Kong Dollar and the NIS. As a result, some of our financial assets are denominated in these currencies, and fluctuations in these currencies could adversely affect our financial results. In addition, a large portion of our expenses, principally salaries and related personnel expenses, are paid in NIS. For instance, during 2013, we witnessed a strengthening of the average exchange rate of the NIS against the dollar, which increased the dollar value of Israeli expenses. If the NIS strengthens against the dollar, as it did in 2013, the value of our Israeli expenses will increase. While we engage, from time to time, in currency hedging transactions intended to reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our results of operations, we cannot guarantee that such measures will adequately protect us against currency fluctuations in the future. Although exposure to currency fluctuations to date has not had a material adverse effect on our business, there can be no assurance such fluctuations in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 13 Because we received grants from the Israeli Office of the Chief Scientist, we are subject to ongoing restrictions. We have in the past received royalty-bearing grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Economy (formerly, the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor), or the Chief Scientist, for research and development programs that meet specified criteria. Although we have no further obligation to pay royalties to the Chief Scientist in respect of sales of our products, the terms of the Chief Scientist’s grants limit our ability to transfer know-how developed under an approved research and development program outside of Israel. In addition, any non-Israeli citizen, resident or entity that, among other things, becomes a holder of 5% or more of our share capital or voting rights, is entitled to appoint one or more of our directors or our chief executive officer, serves as a director of our Company or as our chief executive officer, is generally required to notify the same to the Chief Scientist and to undertake to observe the law governing the grant programs of the Chief Scientist, the principal restrictions of which are the transferability limits described above. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us or our officers and directors and to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel. Service of process upon us, our Israeli subsidiaries, our directors and officers and the Israeli experts, if any, named in this annual report, substantially all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, because the majority of our assets and investments, and substantially all of our directors, officers and such Israeli experts are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of them may be difficult to collect within the United States. We have been informed by our legal counsel in Israel that it may also be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on an alleged violation of U.S. securities laws if they determine that Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. Subject to specified time limitations and legal procedures, under the rules of private international law currently prevailing in Israel, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. judgment in a civil matter, including a judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws, as well as a monetary or compensatory judgment in a non-civil matter, provided that the following key conditions are met: · subject to limited exceptions, the judgment is final and non-appealable; · the judgment was given by a court competent under the laws of the state of the court and is otherwise enforceable in such state; · the judgment was rendered by a court competent under the rules of private international law applicable in Israel; · the laws of the state in which the judgment was given provides for the enforcement of judgments of Israeli courts; 14 · adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to present his arguments and evidence; · the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; · the judgment was not obtained by fraud and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; and · an action between the same parties in the same matter was not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit was instituted in the U.S. court. 