Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risk Factors We are identifying important risks and uncertainties that could affect our Company’s results of operations, financial condition or business and that could cause them to differ materially from our Company’s historical results of operations, financial condition or business, or those contemplated by forward-looking statements made herein or elsewhere, by, or on behalf of, our Company. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those factors described below. The risk factors highlighted below are not the only ones that our Company faces. Because We Primarily Serve Missouri, A Decline In The Local Economic Conditions Could Lower Hawthorn’s Profitability. The profitability of Hawthorn is dependant on the profitability of its banking subsidiary, which operates out of central and west central Missouri. The financial condition of this bank is affected by fluctuations in the economic conditions prevailing in the portion of Missouri in which its 9 Table of Contents operations are located. Accordingly, the financial conditions of both Hawthorn and its banking subsidiary would be adversely affected by deterioration in the general economic and real estate climate in Missouri. An increase in unemployment, a decrease in profitability of regional businesses or real estate values or an increase in interest rates are among the factors that could weaken the local economy. With a weaker local economy: • customers may not want or need the products and services of Hawthorn’s banking subsidiary, • borrowers may be unable to repay their loans, • the value of the collateral security of our Bank’s loans to borrowers may decline, and • the overall quality of our Bank’s loan portfolio may decline. Making mortgage loans and consumer loans is a significant source of profits for Hawthorn’s banking subsidiary. If individual customers in the local area do not want these loans, profits may decrease. Although our Bank could make other investments, our Bank may earn less revenue on these investments than on loans. Also, our Bank’s losses on loans may increase if borrowers are unable to make payments on their loans. Interest Rate Changes May Reduce Our Profitability And Our Banking Subsidiary. The primary source of earnings for Hawthorn’s banking subsidiary is net interest income. To be profitable, our Bank has to earn more money in interest and fees on loans and other interest-earning assets than it pays as interest on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities and as other expenses. If prevailing interest rates decrease, as has already happened on several occasions since January 2001, including in 2008, the amount of interest our Bank earn on loans and investment securities may decrease more rapidly than the amount of interest our Bank has to pay on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. This would result in a decrease in the profitability of Hawthorn and its banking subsidiary, other factors remaining equal. Changes in the level or structure of interest rates also affect • our Bank’s ability to originate loans, • the value of our Bank’s loan and securities portfolios, • our Bank’s ability to realize gains from the sale of loans and securities, • the average life of our Bank’s deposits, and • our Bank’s ability to obtain deposits. Fluctuations in interest rates will ultimately affect both the level of income and expense recorded on a large portion of our Bank’s assets and liabilities, and the market value of all interest-earning assets, other than interest-earning assets that mature in the short term. Our Bank’s interest rate management strategy is designed to stabilize net interest income and preserve capital over a broad range of interest rate movements by matching the interest rate sensitivity of assets and liabilities. Although Hawthorn believes that its Bank’s current mix of loans, mortgage-backed securities, investment securities and deposits is reasonable, significant fluctuations in interest rates may have a negative effect on the profitability of our Bank. Our Profitability Depends On Their Asset Quality And Lending Risks. Success in the banking industry largely depends on the quality of loans and other assets. The loan officers of Hawthorn’s banking subsidiary are actively encouraged to identify deteriorating loans. Loans are also monitored and categorized through an analysis of their payment status. For example, recent reviews by our credit officer identified areas of concern that resulted in heightened attention being given to reducing concentrations of credit and, in particular, to strengthening credit quality and administration. Our Bank’s failure to timely and accurately monitor the quality of its loans and other assets could have a materially adverse effect on the operations and financial condition of Hawthorn and its banking subsidiary. There is a degree of credit risk associated with any lending activity. Our Bank attempts to minimize its credit risk through loan diversification. Although 10 Table of Contents our Bank’s loan portfolio is varied, with no undue concentration in any one industry, substantially all of the loans in the portfolio have been made to borrowers in central, west central, and southwest Missouri. Therefore, the loan portfolio is susceptible to factors affecting the central, west central, and southwest Missouri area and the level of non-performing assets is heavily dependant upon local conditions. There can be no assurance that the level of our Bank’s non-performing assets will not increase above current levels. High levels of non-performing assets could have a materially adverse effect on the operations and financial condition of Hawthorn and its banking subsidiary. Our Provision For Probable Loan Losses May Need To Be Increased. Hawthorn’s banking subsidiary makes a provision for loan losses based upon management’s analysis of probable losses in the loan portfolio and consideration of prevailing economic conditions. Our Bank may need to increase the provision for loan losses through additional provisions in the future if the financial condition of any of its borrowers deteriorates or if real estate values decline. Furthermore, various regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review the loan portfolio, provision for loan losses, and real estate acquired by foreclosure of our Bank. Such agencies may require our Bank to recognize additions to the provision for loan losses based on their judgments of information available to them at the time of the examination. Any additional provision for probable loan losses, whether required as a result of regulatory review or initiated by Hawthorn itself, may materially alter the financial outlook of Hawthorn and its banking subsidiary. If We Are Unable To Successfully Compete For Customers In Our Market Area, Our Financial Condition And Results Of Operations Could Be Adversely Affected. Hawthorn’s banking subsidiary faces substantial competition in making loans, attracting deposits and providing other financial products and services. Our Bank has numerous competitors for customers in its market area. Such competition for loans comes principally from: • other commercial banks • savings banks • savings and loan associations • mortgage banking companies • finance companies • credit unions Competition for deposits comes principally from: • other commercial banks • savings banks • savings and loan associations • credit unions • brokerage firms • insurance companies • money market mutual funds • mutual funds (such as corporate and government securities funds) Many of these competitors have greater financial resources and name recognition, more locations, more advanced technology and more financial products to offer than our Bank. Competition from larger institutions may increase due to an acceleration of bank mergers and consolidations in Missouri and the rest of the nation. In addition, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act removes many of the remaining restrictions in federal banking law against cross-ownership between banks and other financial institutions, such as insurance companies and securities firms. The law will likely increase the number and financial strength of companies that compete directly with our Bank. The profitability of our Bank depends of its continued ability to attract new customers and compete in Missouri. New competitors, as well as the expanding operations of existing competitors, have had, and are expected to continue to have, an adverse impact on our Bank’s market share of deposits and loans in our Bank’s service areas. If our Bank is unable to successfully compete, its financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents We May Experience Difficulties In Managing Our Growth And In Effectively Integrating Newly Acquired Companies. As part of our general strategy, Hawthorn may continue to acquire banks and businesses that it believes provide a strategic fit with its business. To the extent that our Company does grow, there can be no assurances that we will be able to adequately and profitably manage such growth. Acquiring other banks and businesses will involve risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including: • potential exposure to liabilities of the banks and businesses acquired; • difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the banks and businesses acquired; • difficulty and expense of instituting the necessary systems and procedures, including accounting and financial reporting systems, to manage the combined enterprises on a profitable basis; • potential disruption to our existing business and operations; • potential diversion of the time and attention of our management; and • impairment of relationships with and the possible loss of key employees and customers of the banks and businesses acquired. The success of our internal growth strategy will depend primarily on the ability of our banking subsidiary to generate an increasing level of loans and deposits at acceptable risk levels and on acceptable terms without significant increases in non-interest expenses relative to revenues generated. There is no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our internal growth strategy. We May Be Adversely Affected By Changes In Laws And Regulations Affecting The Financial Services Industry. Banks and bank holding companies such as Hawthorn are subject to regulation by both federal and state bank regulatory agencies. The regulations, which are designed to protect borrowers and promote certain social policies, include limitations on the operations of banks and bank holding companies, such as minimum capital requirements and restrictions on dividend payments. The regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervision and enforcement activities and their examination policies, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank, the classification of assets by an institution and requiring an increase in a bank’s allowance for loan losses. These regulations are not necessarily designed to maximize the profitability of banking institutions. Future changes in the banking laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the operations and financial condition of Hawthorn and its banking subsidiary. Our Success Largely Depends On The Efforts Of Our Executive Officers. The success of Hawthorn and its banking subsidiary has been largely dependant on the efforts of James Smith, Chairman and CEO and David Turner, President and the other executive officers. These individuals are expected to continue to perform their services. However, the loss of the services of Messrs. Smith or Turner, or any of the other key executive officers could have a materially adverse effect on Hawthorn and its subsidiary bank. We Cannot Predict How Changes In Technology Will Affect Our Business. The financial services market, including banking services, is increasingly affected by advances in technology, including developments in: • telecommunications • data processing • automation • Internet-based banking • telebanking • debit cards and so-called “smart cards” 12 Table of Contents Our ability to compete successfully in the future will depend on whether they can anticipate and respond to technological changes. To develop these and other new technologies our Bank will likely have to make additional capital investments. Although our Bank continually invests in new technology, there can be no assurance that our Bank will have sufficient resources or access to the necessary proprietary technology to remain competitive in the future. Additional Factors. Additional risks and uncertainties that may affect the future results of operations, financial condition or business of our Company and its banking subsidiary include, but are not limited to: (i) adverse publicity, news coverage by the media, or negative reports by brokerage firms, industry and financial analysts regarding our Bank or our Company; and (ii) changes in accounting policies and practices. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 