D. Risk Factors The following risk factors, among others, could in the future affect our actual results of operations and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and we assume no obligation to update this information. Before you decide to buy, hold, or sell our ordinary shares, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained elsewhere in this annual report. The following risk factors are not the only risk factors facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. Our business, financial condition and results of operation could be seriously harmed if any of the events underlying any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs. In that event, the price for our ordinary shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 2 Risk Factors Relating to Our Business We have a history of operating losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We incurred an operating loss in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 and in the five preceding years. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitable operations in the future. Even if we maintain profitability, we cannot assure that future net income will offset our cumulative losses. We face liquidity challenges and intend to raise additional capital, which may not be available to us. We had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $0.5 million as of December 31, 2008 and approximately $0.7 million as of March 31, 2009. Although we are continuing in our efforts to raise additional capital, including the commencement of a rights offering as soon as practicable following the date of this annual report, we believe that, in light of recent financing, including debt restructuring activities, our existing capital resources will be adequate to satisfy our working capital and capital expenditure requirements in 2009. Nevertheless, if the contemplated rights offering will not be fully subscribed, or if the cash flow provided by our operating activities so require, we may need to raise additional funds in order to satisfy our future working capital and capital expenditure requirements. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional funds on a timely basis, on acceptable terms or at all, due to, among other things, difficulties in the capital and credit markets. If we cannot raise needed funds on acceptable terms, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate some aspects of our operations and we may not be able to: — develop new products; — enhance our existing products; — remain current with evolving industry standards; — expand our sales and marketing programs; — take advantage of future opportunities; or — respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, such as through the contemplated rights offering, the percentage ownership of then current shareholders who do not participate, would be diluted. 3 If we do not meet our internal revenue projections, we will have to implement a cost reduction plan in order to fund our operations. Our operating plan for each fiscal year includes certain estimates and assumptions regarding various matters, including our expected revenues. Our failure to meet the key parameters of our operating plan, especially our internal revenue projections, may require us to implement a cost reduction plan. Such a plan may include any of the following elements or a combination thereof: — raising additional capital (see above under “We face liquidity challenges and may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us”); — a workforce reduction; — curtailment of our sales and marketing activities; — reduce our research and development expenses; and/or — explore other strategic alternatives. In order for such cost reduction plan to be effective, we may need to implement it in a timely manner in response to short-term or unexpected decreases in revenues. If we fail to implement such plan (if and when necessary) on a timely basis, we may not have sufficient funds to conduct our operations. Even if we do implement such plan, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. For example, if we were to reduce our workforce, we are likely to experience difficulties in developing new products or products enhancement. Severe global economic conditions may materially adversely affect our business. The economic outlook for 2009 has worsened significantly and the global economic recession appears set to continue for some time. During the current global economic slowdown, many companies have reduced expenditures, and adverse economic conditions may cause our customers to reduce or postpone their technology spending significantly, which could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, weakness in the end-user market could negatively affect the cash flow of our Original Equipment Manufacturer, or OEM, partners, distributors and resellers who could, in turn, delay paying their obligations to us. This would increase our credit risk exposure and cause delays in our recognition of revenues on future sales to these customers. Specific economic trends, such as declines in the demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices, or weakness in spending by information technology, or IT, departments of organizations could have a more direct impact on our business. Any of these events would likely harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We are currently unable to predict how long the recession will last or the full extent of its effects on our operating results and financial condition. Our freedom to operate our business is limited as a result of certain restrictive covenants contained in our loan agreement with Plenus. Our loan agreement with Plenus, as amended, or the Plenus loan, contains a number of restrictive covenants that limit our operating flexibility. These covenants include, among other things, limitations on liens, on the incurrence of indebtedness, on the provision of loans and guarantees and on acquisitions, dispositions of assets, changes in the general nature of our business and distribution of dividends. Such obligations may hinder our future operations or the manner in which we operate our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. One of our strategic customers accounted for 12.0% of our revenues in 2008. A loss of this customer or a reduction or delay in orders from such partner could harm our business. In 2008, one of our strategic customers accounted for 12.0% of our revenues. There can be no assurance that such customer will continue to order our products in the same level or at all. For example, in 2008, 2007 and 2006, another strategic customer, an OEM partner of ours, accounted for 5.5%, 16.9% and 21.5% of our revenues, respectively, reflecting a continuing decrease in the sales we made to such partner. A further reduction or delay in orders from such partner, including reductions or delays due to market, economic or competitive conditions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 4 Our operating results vary quarterly and seasonally. We have often recognized a substantial portion of our revenues in the first quarter and in the last quarter of the year and in the last month, or even weeks or days, of a quarter. Our expense levels are relatively fixed in the short term. If revenue levels fall below expectations, our quarterly results are likely to be disproportionately adversely affected because a proportionately smaller amount of our expenses varies with our revenues. Our operating results reflect seasonal trends and we expect to continue to be affected by such trends in the future, primarily in the third quarter ending September 30, when we expect to continue to experience relatively lower sales mainly as a result of reduced sales activity in Europe during the summer months. Due to the foregoing factors, in some future quarter our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In such event, it is likely that the price of our ordinary shares would be materially adversely affected. Our operating results fluctuate significantly. Our quarterly results have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. Our future operating results will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, the following: — the size and timing of significant orders and their fulfillment; — demand for our products; — seasonal trends and general domestic and international economic and political conditions, among others; — continuing deepening of the global slowdown; — changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; — the number, timing and significance of product enhancements; — new product announcements by us and our competitors; — our ability to successfully market newly acquired products and technologies; — our ability to develop, introduce and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; — changes in the level of our operating expenses; — budgeting cycles of our customers; — customer order deferrals in anticipation of enhancements or new products that we or our competitors offer; — product life cycles; 5 — software bugs and other product quality problems; — personnel changes; — changes in our strategy; — currency exchange rate fluctuations and economic conditions in the geographic areas where we operate; and — the inherent uncertainty in marketing new products or technologies. Due to the foregoing factors, quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast, and it is likely that our future operating results will be adversely affected by these or other factors. Revenues are also difficult to forecast because our sales cycle, from initial evaluation to purchase, is lengthy and varies substantially from customer to customer. In light of the foregoing, we cannot predict revenues for any future quarter with any significant degree of accuracy. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and you should not rely upon them as indications of future performance. Declines in our share price or operating performance could result in a future impairment of our goodwill or long-lived assets. In accordance with applicable accounting principles and relevant guidance published from time to time, we assess potential impairments to goodwill annually and when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment condition may exist. We also assess potential impairments to our long-lived assets, including property and equipment and capitalized software, when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. In the current capital market downturn, our share price, and consequently our market capitalization, have declined and may decline further in the future. If the value of our market capitalization falls below the value of our shareholders’ equity, or actual results of operation materially differ from our expectations, it might require us to recognize an impairment loss of goodwill or long lived assets. Consequently, our future results could be adversely affected by changes in events and circumstances that would result in the event of such impairments. We are subject to risks associated with international operations. We are based in Israel and generate a large portion of our sales outside the United States. Our sales outside of the United States accounted for 38.2%, 38.4% and 40.8% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Although we commit significant management time and financial resources to developing direct and indirect international sales and support channels, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. To the extent that we cannot do so in a timely manner, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. As we conduct business globally, our future results could also be adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors and inherent risks, including the following: — the impact of the recessionary environments in multiple foreign markets; — longer receivables collection periods and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; — unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; 6 — difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; — reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; — potential tax consequences; and — political and economic instability. We cannot be certain that we, our distributors or our resellers will be able to sustain or increase revenues from international operations or that the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and, as a result, on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our results of operations may be harmed by currency fluctuations. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. While our revenues are generally denominated in dollars, the British Pound, the Hong Kong Dollar and the Euro, a significant portion of our expenses are incurred in NIS. If we were to determine that it was in our best interests to enter into any hedging transactions in the future, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so or that such transactions, if entered into, will materially reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our results of operations. In addition, if, for any reason, exchange or price controls or other restrictions on the conversion of foreign currencies into NIS were imposed, our business could be adversely affected. Although exposure to currency fluctuations to date has not had a material adverse effect on our business, there can be no assurance such fluctuations in the future will not have a material adverse effect on revenues from international sales and, consequently our business, operating results and financial condition. We are subject to risks relating to proprietary rights and risks of infringement. We are dependent upon our proprietary software technology and we rely primarily on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. Except for our federal trademark registrations for Attunity®, Attunity B2B®, Attunity Connect® and Attunity InFocus® in the United States, we do not have any trademark, patent or copyright registrations. To protect our software, documentation and other written materials, we rely on trade secret and copyright laws, which afford only limited protection. It is possible that others will develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. It is difficult to police the unauthorized use of products in our field, and we expect software piracy to be a persistent problem, although we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software products exists. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. We cannot be certain that our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the United States or abroad will be adequate or that our competition will not independently develop similar technology. We are not aware that we have infringed any proprietary rights of third parties. It is possible, however, that third parties will claim that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights. We believe that software product developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. It would be time consuming for us to defend any such claims, with or without merit, and any such claims could result in costly litigation; divert management’s attention and resources; cause product shipment delays; and require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. 7 If there is a successful claim of infringement against us and we are not able to license the infringed or similar technology or other intellectual property, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. A significant portion of our revenues are dependent on maintenance payments from customers using our legacy products. Approximately 11.4%, 12.4% and 13.0% of our total revenues in the year ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, were derived from annual maintenance payments made by customers who use CorVision, Mancal 2000 and APTuser, which are legacy software products. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, these revenues on a consolidated basis totaled $1.3 million, $1.5 million and $1.8 million, respectively. Some of these customers may replace these legacy products with more advanced products from other vendors and, as a result, discontinue use of these products, which, in turn, would result in a reduction in our maintenance revenues and adversely affect our operating results. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we sold the Mancal 2000 to a third party. Our future growth will depend upon market acceptance of our products and the development of a market for such products. Our success depends among others on the acceptance of our products and technologies and the development of the targeted markets. In December 2005, we launched Attunity InFocus, which we believe to be one of the first workplace-focused composite application platforms, designed to help businesses to detect and resolve those complex issues that affect their operations, by providing real-time information visibility with integrated activity and resolution management. During 2005, 2006 and 2007 we invested in developing Attunity InFocus and in creating and increasing its market acceptance. There is no assurance that the market or demand for workplace-focused composite application platforms, such as Attunity InFocus, will develop as rapidly as we expect or at all, or even if such market develops, that we will be successful in marketing and selling Attunity InFocus and growing revenues to justify our investments. To date, we have not been successful in generating strong demand for this product and as a result we have significantly decreased the resources invested, and expenses incurred, in the marketing and development of Attunity InFocus. We therefore focus our efforts on the sale and marketing of our other products and believe that successful positioning of our products is a critical factor in our ability to achieve growth. Our products have a lengthy sales cycle. Our customers typically use our products to deploy applications that are critical to their business. As a result, the licensing and implementation of our products generally involves a significant commitment of attention and resources by prospective customers. Because of the long approval process that typically accompanies strategic initiatives or capital expenditures by companies, our sales process is often delayed, with little or no control over any delays encountered by us. Our sales cycle can be further extended for sales made through third party distributors. We cannot control such delays and cannot control the timing of sales cycles or our sales revenue, especially in light of the current global economic recession. Delay in the sales cycle of our products could result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Technological changes may adversely affect the market acceptance of our products and services. We compete in a market that is characterized by technological changes and improvements and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. The introduction of new technologies and products could render existing products and services obsolete and unmarketable and could exert price pressures on our products and services. Any future success will depend upon our ability to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers by, among others: — supporting existing and emerging hardware, software, databases and networking platforms; and — developing and introducing new and enhanced applications that keep pace with such technological developments, emerging new markets and changing customer requirements. 8 Our products may contain defects that may be costly to correct, delay market acceptance of our products, harm our reputation and expose us to litigation. Despite testing by us, errors may be found in our software products. If defects are discovered, we may not be able to successfully correct them in a timely manner, or at all. Defects and failures in our products could result in a loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products and could damage our reputation. Although our standard license agreement with our customers contains provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, it is possible that these provisions may not be effective or enforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions, and we could fail to realize revenues and suffer damage to our reputation as a result of, or in defense of, a substantial claim. The loss of the services of our key personnel would negatively affect our business. Our future success depends to a large extent on the continued services of our senior management and key personnel, including, in particular, Mr. Alon, our Chairman of the board of directors and Chief Executive Officer. Any loss of the services of members of our senior management or other key personnel, and especially those of Mr. Alon, would adversely affect our business. Our results may be adversely affected by competition. The markets for our software products are fragmented and intensely competitive. Competition in the industry is generally based on product performance, depth of product line, technical support and price. We compete both with international and local software providers, many of whom have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. We anticipate continued growth and competition in the software products market and, consequently, the entrance of new competitors into the market. Such new entrants may include the IT departments of current and potential customers of ours that develop solutions that compete with our products. Our existing and potential competitors, such as Informatica, iWay software and IBM who compete with our connectivity and change data capture product offerings, may be able to develop software products and services that are as effective as, more effective, or easier to use than those offered by us. Such existing and potential competitors may also enjoy substantial advantages over us in terms of research and development expertise, manufacturing efficiency, name recognition, sales and marketing expertise, distribution channels, as well as financial resources. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and, consequently, on our business, operating results and financial condition. Although our internal control over financial reporting was considered effective as of December 31, 2008, there is no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will continue to be effective in the future, which could result in our financial statements being unreliable, government investigation or loss of investor confidence in our financial reports. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us. Our efforts to comply with the management assessment requirements of Section 404(a), which applied to us for the first time in 2007, have resulted in an increase of our general and administrative expenses and a devotion of management time and attention to compliance activities, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. We may also identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our internal control over financial reporting has not yet been audited by our independent registered public accounting firm. In the future, if we are unable to assert that our internal controls are effective, our investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could also result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities. 9 Risk Factors Relating to Our Ordinary Shares The limited market for our shares may reduce their liquidity and make our stock price more volatile. You may have difficulty selling your shares. In February 2008, our ordinary shares were delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market and, effective February 26, 2008, they are quoted on the OTCBB, an electronic quotation medium regulated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Securities traded on the OTCBB typically have low trading volumes. Market fluctuations and volatility, as well as general economic, market and political conditions, could reduce our share price. As a result, there may be only a limited public market for our ordinary shares, and it may be more difficult to dispose of or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our ordinary shares. In addition, unlike NASDAQ and the various international stock exchanges, there are no corporate governance requirements imposed on OTCBB-traded companies. Our ordinary shares may become subject to the “Penny Stock” rules of the SEC if our assets decrease significantly, and the trading market in our ordinary shares is limited. This makes transactions in your ordinary shares cumbersome and may reduce the value of your shares. The SEC has adopted Rule 3a51-1 which establishes the definition of a “penny stock,” for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, Rule 15g-9 requires: — that a broker or dealer approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks; and — the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: — obtain financial information and investment experience objectives of the person; and — make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: — sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and — that the broker or dealer received a signed, written statement from the investor prior to the transaction. 10 Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the “penny stock” rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our ordinary shares and cause a decline in its market value. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Our share price has been volatile in the past and may decline in the future. Our ordinary shares have experienced significant market price and volume fluctuations in the past and may experience significant market price and volume fluctuations in the future in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: — quarterly variations in our operating results; — operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; — changes in expectations as to our future financial performance and cash position, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; — announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; — announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; — changes in the status of our intellectual property rights; — announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; — additions or departures of key personnel; — delisting from NASDAQ; and — future sales of our ordinary shares. Domestic and international stock markets and electronic trading platforms often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations or political events or hostilities in or surrounding Israel, could also adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares. 11 Provisions of our loan agreement with Plenus may make an acquisition of us more costly or difficult, which could depress the price of our shares. Our loan agreement with Plenus requires us to prepay the full $2 million of the outstanding loan in the event we undergo a change of control, including equity financings in which we raise $15 million or more. Moreover, as recently amended, the loan agreement provides that if, during the period between March 19, 2009 and March 18, 2014, we enter into a Fundamental Transaction, which is defined to include a sale through a merger, selling all or substantially all of our assets, or a transaction in which a person or entity acquires more than 50% of our outstanding shares, then, without derogating from the obligation to repay the outstanding loan, we will be required to pay an additional amount to Plenus equal to, in general, the higher of (1) 15% of the outstanding loan amount, and (2) 15% of the aggregate proceeds payable to our shareholders or us in connection with such Fundamental Transaction. Alternatively, if our consolidated revenues for 2012 are equal to, or exceed, $18 million, Plenus will be entitled, in lieu of the payment upon a Fundamental Transaction described above, to receive an amount equal to the higher of (1) 15% of such revenues and (2) $1.5 million. As a result, an acquisition of our company that triggers the said payments will be more costly to a potential acquirer and these provisions, taken as a whole, may have the effect of making an acquisition of our company more difficult. These provisions could also cause our ordinary shares to trade at prices below the price for which third parties might be willing to pay to gain control of us. See Item 10C “Material Contracts – Plenus Loan.” Our directors and executive officers own a substantial percentage of our ordinary shares. As of April 1, 2009, our directors and executive officers beneficially own approximately 20.9% of our outstanding ordinary shares. As a result, if these shareholders acted together, they could exert significant influence on the election of our directors and on decisions by our shareholders on matters submitted to shareholder vote, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership of our ordinary shares could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, or other purchases of our ordinary shares that might otherwise give our shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for our ordinary shares. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our share price. Issuance of a significant amount of additional ordinary shares on exercise or conversion of outstanding warrants and convertible notes and/or substantial future sales of our ordinary shares may depress our share price. As of April 1, 2009, we had approximately 23.2 million ordinary shares issued and outstanding and approximately 11.3 million of additional ordinary shares which are issuable upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants and the conversion of convertible notes. The issuance of a significant amount of additional ordinary shares on account of the outstanding warrants and convertible notes will dilute our current shareholders’ holdings and may depress our share price. In addition, if our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ordinary shares, including shares issuable upon the exercise or conversion of outstanding warrants, convertible notes or employee options, or if the perception exists that our shareholders may sell a substantial number of our ordinary shares, we cannot foresee the impact of any potential sales on the market price of these additional ordinary shares, but it is possible that the market price of our ordinary shares would be adversely affected. Any substantial sales of our shares in the public market might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity related securities in the future at a time and on terms we deem appropriate. Even if a substantial number of sales do not occur, the mere existence of this “market overhang” could have a negative impact on the market for, and the market price of, our ordinary shares. We do not intend to pay cash dividends. Our policy is to retain earnings for use in our business and, for this reason, we do not intend to pay cash dividends on the ordinary shares in the foreseeable future. 12 Risk Factors Relating to Our Operations in Israel Security, political and economic instability in Israel may harm our business. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, and our principal offices and research and development facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, security, political and economic conditions in Israel directly affect our business. Over the past several decades, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since late 2000, there has been a high level of violence between Israel and the Palestinians which has strained Israel’s relationship with its Arab citizens, Arab countries and, to some extent, with other countries around the world. The election in 2006 of representatives of the Hamas movement to a majority of the seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council and its subsequent seizure of control of the Gaza strip have created additional unrest and uncertainty in the region. Further, in the summer of 2006, Israel engaged in a war with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group, which involved thousands of missile strikes and disrupted most day-to-day civilian activity in northern Israel. Since June 2007, thousands of missiles have been fired from Gaza at population centers in southern Israel, leading to an armed conflict between Israel and the Hamas in January 2009. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. Any armed conflicts or political instability in the region, including acts of terrorism or any other hostilities involving or threatening Israel, would likely negatively affect business conditions and could make it more difficult for us to conduct our operations in Israel, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our financial results. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of personnel to perform military service. Some of our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform military reserve duty annually. They may also be further subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers, key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service, and any disruption in our operations would harm our business. The full impact on our workforce or business if some of our executive officers and employees are called upon to perform military service, especially in times of national emergency, is difficult to predict. Our financial results may be adversely affected by inflation and currency fluctuations. Since we report our financial results in dollars, fluctuations in rates of exchange between the dollar and non-dollar currencies may have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. We generate a majority of our revenues in dollars or in dollar-linked currencies, but some of our revenues are generated in other currencies such as the New Israeli Shekel, or NIS, the British Pound Sterling and the Hong-Kong Dollar. As a result, some of our financial assets are denominated in these currencies, and fluctuations in these currencies could adversely affect our financial results. Since a considerable portion of our expenses, such as employees’ salaries, are linked to an extent to the rate of inflation in Israel, the dollar cost of our operations is influenced by the extent to which any increase in the rate of inflation in Israel is or is not offset by the devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that the NIS, after adjustment for inflation in Israel, will appreciate in relation to the dollar. In that event, the dollar cost of our operations in Israel will increase and our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. During 2006, 2007 and 2008, the inflation adjusted NIS appreciated against the dollar, which raised the dollar cost of our Israeli operations. We cannot predict whether in the future the NIS will appreciate against the dollar or vice versa. Likewise, our operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to guard against currency fluctuations in the future. We do not currently engage in any currency hedging transactions intended to reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our results of operations. We cannot guarantee that we will enter into such transactions in the future or that such measures will adequately protect us from serious harm due to the impact of inflation in Israel. 13 We cannot guarantee continuation of government programs and tax benefits. We are eligible to receive, and may in the future utilize, certain tax benefits under Israeli governmental programs. To remain eligible for these tax benefits, we must continue to meet certain conditions, including making some specified investments in fixed assets. If we fail to comply with these conditions in the future, the benefits we could receive may be canceled. We cannot guarantee that these programs and tax benefits will be continued in the future, at their current levels or at all. If these programs and tax benefits are ended, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected. Because we received grants from the Israeli Office of the Chief Scientist, we are subject to ongoing restrictions. We received royalty-bearing grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, or the Chief Scientist, for research and development programs that meet specified criteria. Since December 31, 2006, we have no further obligation to pay royalties to the Chief Scientist in respect of sales of our products. However, the terms of the Chief Scientist’s grants limit our ability to transfer know-how developed under an approved research and development program outside of Israel, regardless of whether the royalties were fully paid. Any non-Israeli citizen, resident or entity that, among other things, becomes a holder of 5% or more of our share capital or voting rights, is entitled to appoint one or more of our directors or our chief executive officer, serves as a director of our company or as our chief executive officer is generally required to notify the same to the Chief Scientist and to undertake to observe the law governing the grant programs of the Chief Scientist, the principal restrictions of which are the transferability limits described above. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against our officers, our directors and us or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel. Service of process upon us, our Israeli subsidiaries and our directors and officers, substantially all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, because the majority of our assets and investments, and substantially all of our directors and officers are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of them may not be collectible within the United States. We have been informed by our legal counsel in Israel that it may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. Subject to specified time limitations and legal procedures, under the rules of private international law currently prevailing in Israel, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. final judgment in a civil matter, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws and including a monetary or compensatory judgment in a non-civil matter, provided that: — the judgment is enforceable in the state in which it was given; — adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to present his arguments and evidence; — the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; 14 — the judgment was not obtained by fraud and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; and — an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the U.S. court. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. Provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making an acquisition of our company more difficult. For example, under the Companies Law, upon the request of a creditor of either party to a proposed merger, the court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there exists a reasonable concern that as a result of the merger the surviving company will be unable to satisfy the obligations of any of the parties to the merger. These provisions could cause our ordinary shares to trade at prices below the price for which third parties might be willing to pay to gain control of us. Third parties who are otherwise willing to pay a premium over prevailing market prices to gain control of us may be unable or unwilling to do so because of these provisions of Israeli law. See Item 10B. “Additional Information – Memorandum and Articles of Association – Provisions Restricting Change in Control of Our Company.” 