Item 1A. Risk Factors. Business Factors. Beginning with the Restated LPG Asset Sale, the Company is dependent on the Fuel Sales Business, the LPG Transportation Business and income on invested cash assets, if any, to provide revenues. The Fuel Sales Business is a relatively new business and, as a result, the Company does not believe it can rely on that portion of its business to provide sufficient revenue. The Company’s ability to grow the Fuel Sales Business is largely dependent on available financing which may be limited. The Company can only transport LPG on behalf of TransMontaigne using the Retained Assets. TransMontaigne may not transport LPG volumes utilizing the Retained Assets in volumes that are profitable and/or sufficient for Rio Vista to make future distributions to its unitholders. The Company may be unable to successfully develop additional sources of revenue in order to reduce its dependence on TransMontaigne. All of the Company’s assets are pledged as collateral for existing debt and the Company therefore may be unable to obtain additional financing collateralized by such assets. If the Company cannot develop sufficient capital resources for acquisitions or opportunities for expansion, the Company’s growth will be limited. Future acquisitions and expansions may not be successful, may substantially increase the Company’s indebtedness and contingent liabilities, and may create integration difficulties. The Company’s business would be adversely affected if operations at its transportation, terminal and distribution facilities were interrupted. Acquisition Factors. The advancement, cost and results of particular projects sought by the Company, including projects and/or acquisitions which do not specifically fall within the areas of the Company’s current lines of businesses will depend on: the outcome of negotiations for such projects and/or acquisitions; the ability of the Company’s management to manage such businesses; the ability of the Company to obtain financing for such acquisitions; business integration issues; changes in operating conditions or costs; and the occurrence of unforeseen technical difficulties. Market Listing. On July 19, 2006 pursuant to a written determination received from The NASDAQ Stock Market’s Listing Qualification Department, Penn Octane’s common stock was delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. As a result of the delisting, Penn Octane’s common stock began trading on the Pink Sheets, a centralized quotation service that collects and publishes market maker quotes for over-the-counter securities in real time. On March 22, 2007 the Company received clearance to enter quotations on the OTC Bulletin Board for Penn Octane’s common stock and began trading on or about March 26, 2007 on the OTC Bulletin Board. The OTC Bulletin Board is a regulated quotation service that displays real-time quotes, last sale prices and volume information in over-the-counter securities. There is no assurance that Penn Octane will remain quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. Penn Octane will continue to file all required reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The delisting by NASDAQ could result in decreased market interest in Penn Octane common stock, investors and stockholders may experience more difficulty in buying and selling Penn Octane common stock and Penn Octane’s common stock price may decline. In addition, Penn Octane may experience greater difficulty in obtaining necessary debt and equity capital for potential acquisitions or the operation of its business. Competitive Factors. The energy industry is highly competitive. There is competition within the industries and also with other industries in supplying the energy and fuel needs of the industrial and individual consumers. The Company competes with other companies in the sale or purchase of Fuel Products as well as the transportation of these products in the US and Mexican markets and employs all methods of competition which are lawful and appropriate for such purposes. A key component of the Company’s competitive position, particularly given the commodity nature of its products in the Fuel Sales Business and the nature of its assets deployed in the LPG Transportation Business, is its ability to manage its expenses successfully, which requires continuous management focus on reducing costs and improving efficiency and its ability to secure unique opportunities for the purchase, sale and/or delivery methods of its products. International Factors. Mexican economic, political and social conditions may change and adversely affect the Company’s operations. The Company may not be able to continue operations in Mexico if Mexico restricts the existing ownership structure of its Mexican operations, requiring the Company to increase its reliance on Mexican nationals to conduct its business. The LPG market in Mexico has yet to be deregulated. Upon deregulation the Company will still be dependent on TransMontaigne because the Company can only transport LPG on behalf of TransMontaigne using the Retained Assets. The Company has not predicted the effect of deregulation on the Company. The Company’s contracts and Mexican business operations are subject to volatility in currency exchange rates which could negatively impact its earnings. 15 Table of Contents Political Factors. The operations and earnings of the Company in the U.S. and Mexico have been, and may in the future be, affected from time to time in varying degree by political instability and by other political developments and laws and regulations, such as forced divestiture of assets; restrictions on production, imports and exports; war or other international conflicts; civil unrest and local security concerns that threaten the safe operation of the Company’s facilities; price controls; tax increases and retroactive tax claims; expropriation of property; cancellation of contract rights; and environmental regulations. Both the likelihood of such occurrences and their overall effect upon the Company vary greatly and are not predictable. Industry and Economic Factors. The operations and earnings of the Company throughout the U.S. and Mexico are affected by local, regional and global events or conditions that affect supply and demand for the Company’s products and services. These events or conditions are generally not predictable and include, among other things, general economic growth rates and the occurrence of economic recessions; the development of new supply sources for its products; supply disruptions; weather, including seasonal patterns that affect energy demand and severe weather events that can disrupt operations; technological advances, including advances in exploration, production, refining and advances in technology relating to energy usage; changes in demographics, including population growth rates and consumer preferences; and the competitiveness of alternative hydrocarbon or other energy sources or product substitutes. Market Risk Factors. See “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in this report for discussion of the impact of market risks, inflation and other uncertainties. Internal Control Factors. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, beginning with the year ending December 31, 2007, the Company is required to complete an annual evaluation of its internal control systems. In addition, the Company’s independent auditors are required to provide an opinion regarding such evaluation and the adequacy of the Company’s internal accounting controls for the year ending December 31, 2008. The Company’s internal controls may be found to be inadequate, deficiencies or weaknesses may be discovered, and remediation may not be successful. If the Company acquires an existing business, the internal control systems of the acquired business may be inadequate and may require additional strengthening. Projections. Projections, estimates and descriptions of the Company’s plans and objectives included or incorporated in Items 1, 7 and 7A of this report are forward-looking statements. Actual future results could differ materially due to, among other things, the factors discussed above and elsewhere in this report. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Inapplicable. 16 Table of Contents 