Risk Factors” in Item 1A. 2 Table of Contents PART I As used in this Annual Report, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Pediatrix”, the “Company”, “we”, “us” and “our” refer to Pediatrix Medical Group, Inc., a Florida corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively, “PMG”), together with PMG’s affiliated professional associations, corporations and partnerships (“affiliated professional contractors”). PMG has contracts with its affiliated professional contractors, which are separate legal entities that provide physician services in certain states and Puerto Rico. ITEM 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Pediatrix is the nation’s largest health care services company focused on physician services for newborn, maternal-fetal and other pediatric subspecialty care. Our national network is comprised of approximately 834 affiliated physicians, including 644 neonatal physician specialists who provide clinical care in 32 states and Puerto Rico, primarily within hospital-based neonatal intensive care units (“NICUs”), to babies born prematurely or with medical complications. Our affiliated neonatal physician specialists staff and manage clinical activities at more than 240 hospitals, and our 86 affiliated maternal-fetal medicine subspecialists provide care to expectant mothers experiencing complicated pregnancies in many areas where our affiliated neonatal physicians practice. Our network includes other pediatric subspecialists, including 47 pediatric cardiologists, 41 pediatric intensivists and 16 pediatric hospitalists. In addition, we believe that we are the nation’s largest provider of hearing screens to newborns and the nation’s largest private provider of metabolic screening services to newborns. Pediatrix Medical Group, Inc. was incorporated in Florida in 1979. Our principal executive offices are located at 1301 Concord Terrace, Sunrise, Florida 33323, and our telephone number is (954) 384-0175. Our Operations The following discussion describes the components of our services. Physician Services. Our principal mission is the provision of comprehensive clinical care to babies born prematurely or with medical complications and to expectant mothers experiencing complicated pregnancies. • Neonatal Care. We provide clinical care to babies born prematurely or with complications within specific units at hospitals, primarily NICUs, through a team of experienced neonatal physician specialists (called “neonatologists”), neonatal nurse practitioners and other pediatric clinicians. Neonatologists are board-certified or board eligible pediatricians who have extensive education and training for the care of babies born prematurely or with complications that require complex medical treatment. Neonatal nurse practitioners are registered nurses who have advanced training and education in managing health care needs of newborns, infants and their families. • Maternal-Fetal Care. Our operations also include outpatient and inpatient clinical care to expectant mothers experiencing complicated pregnancies and their unborn babies through our affiliated maternal-fetal medicine subspecialists and other clinicians, such as maternal-fetal nurses, certified nurse mid-wives, ultrasonographers and genetic counselors. Maternal-fetal medicine subspecialists are board-certified obstetricians who have extensive education and training for the treatment of high-risk expectant mothers and their fetuses. Our affiliated maternal-fetal medicine subspecialists practice in certain metropolitan areas where we have affiliated neonatologists to provide coordinated care for women with complicated pregnancies and whose babies are often admitted to a NICU upon delivery. • Other Pediatric Subspecialty Care. Our network also includes other pediatric subspecialists, such as, pediatric cardiologists, which are pediatricians who have additional education and training in congenital and acquired heart disorders, pediatric intensivists, which are hospital-based physicians who have additional education and training in caring for critically-ill or injured children and adolescents, and pediatric hospitalists, which are hospital-based pediatricians who specialize in inpatient care and management of acutely-ill children. Our affiliated physicians also provide clinical services in other areas of hospitals, 3 Table of Contents particularly in the labor and delivery area, nursery and pediatric department, where immediate accessibility to specialized care may be critical. Newborn Screening Services. We also operate the nation’s largest private laboratory providing newborn metabolic screening. In addition, we are the nation’s largest provider of hearing screens to newborns. Our newborn screening program identifies more than 50 metabolic disorders and various genetic and biochemical conditions, and potential hearing loss for early treatment or management. All states require screening for a select number of metabolic conditions before newborns are discharged from the hospital. In addition, over 40 states either require newborns to be screened for potential hearing loss before being discharged from the hospital or require that parents be offered the opportunity to submit their newborns to hearing screens. Clinical Research and Education. As part of our ongoing commitment to improving patient care through evidence-based medicine, we conduct clinical research, monitor clinical outcomes and implement clinical quality initiatives with a view to improving patient outcomes, shortening the length of hospital stays and reducing long-term health system costs. We have managed three neonatal clinical trials to completion and have three other trials in process. We also make extensive continuing medical education resources available to our physicians and neonatal nurse practitioners to give them access to the most current treatment methodologies and best demonstrated processes. We believe that referring physicians, hospitals, third-party payors and patients all benefit from our clinical research, education and quality initiatives. Demand for our Physician Services Hospital-Based Care. Hospitals generally must provide cost-effective, quality care in order to enhance their reputations within their communities and desirability to patients, referring physicians and third-party payors. In an effort to improve outcomes and manage costs, hospitals typically employ or contract with physician subspecialists to provide specialized care in many hospital-based units, including NICUs. Hospitals traditionally staffed these units through affiliations with small, local physician groups or independent practitioners. However, management of these units in recent years has presented significant operational challenges, including variable admissions rates, increased operating costs, complex reimbursement systems and other administrative burdens. As a result, hospitals have contracted with physician organizations that have the clinical quality initiatives, information and reimbursement systems and management expertise required to effectively and efficiently operate these units in the current health care environment. Demand for hospital-based physician services, including neonatology, is determined by a national market in which qualified physicians with advanced training compete for hospital contracts. Neonatal Medicine. Of the approximately 4.1 million births in the United States annually, we estimate that approximately 10 to 12 percent require NICU admissions. Research continues to be conducted by numerous institutions to identify potential causes of premature birth and medical complications that often require NICU admissions. Some common contributing factors include the presence of hypertension or diabetes in the mother, lack of prenatal care, complications during pregnancy, drug and alcohol abuse and smoking or poor nutritional habits during pregnancy. Babies admitted to NICUs typically have an illness or condition that requires the care of a neonatalogist. Babies that are born prematurely and have a low birthweight often require neonatal intensive care services because of increased risk for medical complications. We believe obstetricians generally prefer to perform deliveries at hospitals that provide a full complement of labor and delivery services, including a NICU staffed by board-certified or board-eligible neonatologists. Because obstetrics is a significant source of hospital admissions, hospital administrators have responded to these demands by establishing NICUs and contracting with independent neonatology group practices to staff and manage these units. As a result, NICUs within the United States tend to be concentrated in hospitals with a higher volume of births. There are approximately 3,700 board-certified neonatologists in the United States who practice at approximately 1,500 hospital-based NICUs. Maternal-Fetal Medicine. Expectant mothers with pregnancy complications often seek or are referred by their obstetricians to maternal-fetal medicine subspecialists. These subspecialists provide care to women with conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, sickle cell disease, multiple gestation, recurrent miscarriage, family history of genetic diseases, suspected fetal birth defects, and other complications during their pregnancies. We believe that improved maternal-fetal care has a positive impact on neonatal outcomes. Data on neonatal outcomes demonstrate that, in general, the likelihood of mortality or an adverse condition or outcome (referred to as 4 Table of Contents “morbidity”) is reduced the longer a baby remains in the womb. As a result, our maternal-fetal medicine subspecialists focus on extending the pregnancy to improve the viability of the fetus. Other Pediatric Subspecialty Medicine. Other areas of pediatric subspecialty medicine are closely associated with our operations in maternal-fetal-newborn medicine. For example, pediatric cardiology is an important subspecialty within pediatric medicine and is linked closely with maternal-fetal and neonatal intensive care. There are approximately 1,700 board-certified pediatric cardiologists in the United States and we believe that approximately one percent of all babies born in the United States each year are born with congenital cardiovascular malformations. Advances in diagnostic procedures have made it possible to identify cardiovascular malformations relatively early in a pregnancy, and pediatric cardiologists routinely work closely with maternal-fetal medicine subspecialists and neonatologists to improve patient outcomes. Pediatric intensivists, another important subspecialist group, care for critically-ill or injured children and adolescents in pediatric intensive care units (called “PICUs”). There are approximately 1,100 board-certified pediatric intensivists in the United States who practice at approximately 350 hospital-based PICUs. Practice Administration. Administrative demands and cost containment pressures from a number of sources, principally commercial and government payors, make it increasingly difficult for doctors and hospitals to effectively manage patient care, remain current on the latest procedures and efficiently administer non-clinical activities. As a result, we believe that physicians and hospitals remain receptive to being affiliated with larger organizations that reduce administrative burdens, achieve economies of scale and provide value-added clinical research, education and quality initiatives. By relieving many of the burdens associated with the management of a subspecialty group practice, we believe that our practice administration services permit our affiliated physicians to focus on providing quality patient care and thereby contribute to improving patient outcomes, ensuring appropriate length of hospital stays and reducing long-term health system costs. In addition, our national network of affiliated physician practices, although modeled around a traditional group practice structure, is managed by a non-clinical professional management team with proven abilities to achieve significant operating efficiencies in providing administrative support systems, interacting with physicians, hospitals and third-party payors, managing information systems and technologies, and complying with laws and regulations. Our Business Strategy Our business objective is to enhance our position as a premier health care services organization that is built primarily around physician services for newborn and maternal-fetal care. The key elements of our strategy to achieve our objectives are: • Focus on neonatal, maternal-fetal and other pediatric subspecialty care. Through our focus on neonatology, we have developed significant administrative expertise relating to neonatal physician services. We have also facilitated the development of a clinical approach to the practice of medicine among our affiliated physicians that includes research, education and quality initiatives intended to advance the practice of neonatology, improve the quality of care provided to acutely-ill newborns and contribute to shortening the length of their hospital stays and reducing long-term health system costs. We are in the process of developing similar expertise in maternal-fetal medicine and are committed to doing the same with respect to other pediatric subspecialties. • Promote same unit growth. We seek opportunities for increasing revenues in our hospital-based operations. For example, our affiliated hospital-based physicians are well situated to, and, in some cases, provide physician services in other departments, such as newborn nurseries, or in situations where immediate accessibility to specialized obstetric and pediatric care may be critical. In addition, we market our capabilities to obstetricians and family physicians to attract referrals to our hospital-based units. We also market the services of our affiliated physicians to other hospitals to attract neonatology transport admissions. • Acquire physician practice groups and expand into additional healthcare services. We continue to seek to expand our operations by acquiring established neonatal, maternal-fetal medicine and pediatric cardiology groups and other complementary pediatric subspecialty physician groups, such as pediatric intensivists, and pediatric hospitalists. During 2005, we added 13 physician groups to our national network through acquisitions consisting of 10 neonatal groups and three pediatric cardiology practices. We also intend to explore other strategic opportunities that are related to our physician and newborn screening services and in 5 Table of Contents other health care areas that would allow us to benefit from our business and practice management expertise. For example, we have been exploring opportunities within other hospital-based specialties that have operational characteristics that are similar to neonatology, such as anesthesiology. While as of the filing date of this annual report we have not yet made any definitive plans to acquire any anesthesiology practices, we believe that there are substantial similarities between anesthesiology and neonatology that are worth exploring. We expect to continue our evaluation as to whether to pursue this practice area as a business opportunity during 2006. • Expand our newborn screening services. We will continue to seek contracts in the United States with hospitals, third-party payors and, in some cases, state agencies, and internationally with licensees and distributors, to provide screening services to newborns to detect the presence of hearing disorders and metabolic conditions for early treatment or management. We intend to focus on providing quality services and may seek other opportunities to expand our screening capabilities. • Strengthen relationships with our partners. By managing many of the operational challenges associated with a subspecialty practice, encouraging clinical research, education and quality initiatives, and promoting timely intervention by qualified pediatric and maternal-fetal medicine subspecialists in emergency situations, we believe that our business model is focused on improving the quality of care delivered to acutely-ill newborns, ensuring the appropriate length of their hospital stays and reducing long-term health system costs. We believe that referring physicians, hospitals, third-party payors and patients all benefit to the extent that we are successful in implementing our business model. We will continue to seek opportunities to strengthen relationships with our partners. OUR PHYSICIAN SERVICES Neonatal Care We provide neonatal care to babies born prematurely or with complications within specific hospital units, primarily NICUs, through our network of 644 affiliated neonatologists and other related clinical professionals who staff and manage clinical activities at more than 240 NICUs in 32 states and Puerto Rico. We partner with our hospital clients in an effort to enhance the quality of care delivered to premature and sick babies. Some of the nation’s largest and most prestigious hospitals, both not-for-profit and for-profit institutions, retain us to staff and manage their NICUs. Our affiliated neonatologists generally provide 24-hours-a-day, seven-days-a-week coverage, supporting the local referring physician community and being available for consultation in other hospital departments. Our hospital partners benefit from our experience in managing complex critical care units and reducing the costs associated with directly employing physician specialists. Our neonatal physicians interact with colleagues across the country through an internal communications system to draw upon their collective expertise in managing challenging patient care issues. Our neonatal physicians also work collaboratively with maternal-fetal medicine subspecialists to coordinate care of mothers experiencing complicated pregnancies and their fetuses. We also employ or contract with neonatal nurse practitioners, who work with our affiliated physicians in providing medical care. Maternal-Fetal Care We provide outpatient and inpatient maternal-fetal care to expectant mothers with complicated pregnancies and their fetuses through our network of 86 affiliated maternal-fetal medicine subspecialists and other related clinical professionals. Our affiliated neonatologists practice with maternal-fetal medicine subspecialists to provide coordinated care for women with complicated pregnancies whose babies are often admitted to the NICU upon delivery. We believe continuity of treatment from mother and developing fetus during the pregnancy to the newborn upon delivery has improved the clinical outcomes of our patients. Other Pediatric Subspecialty Care Our network includes other pediatric subspecialists, such as, pediatric cardiologists, pediatric intensivists and pediatric hospitalists. In addition, our affiliated physicians also seek to provide support services in other areas of hospitals, particularly in the labor and delivery area, nursery and pediatric department, where immediate 6 Table of Contents accessibility to specialized care may be critical. Our experience and expertise in maternal-fetal-neonatal medicine has led to our involvement in these other areas. • Pediatric Cardiology Care. Our pediatric cardiology practice consists of 47 affiliated pediatric cardiologists and other related clinical professionals who provide specialized cardiac care to fetal and pediatric patients with congenital heart disorders through scheduled office visits, hospital rounds and immediate consultation in emergency situations. • Pediatric Intensive Care. Our 41 affiliated pediatric intensivists provide clinical care for critically-ill or injured children and adolescents. They staff and manage PICUs at 17 hospitals. • Pediatric Hospitalists. Our 16 affiliated pediatric hospitalists provide clinical care to acutely-ill children at 18 hospitals. • Other Newborn and Pediatric Care. Because our affiliated physicians and advanced nurse practitioners generally provide hospital-based coverage, they are situated to provide highly specialized care to address medical needs that may arise during a baby’s hospitalization. For example, as part of our ongoing efforts to support and partner with hospitals and the local referring physician community, our affiliated neonatologists, pediatric hospitalists and advanced nurse practitioners provide in-hospital nursery care to newborns through our newborn nursery program. This program is made available for babies during their hospital stay, which in the case of healthy babies typically comprises two days of evaluation and observation, following which they are referred, and their hospital records are provided, to their pediatricians or family practitioners for follow-up care. OUR NEWBORN SCREENING SERVICES We provide screening services to detect the presence of newborn hearing disorders and metabolic conditions for early treatment or management. Since we launched our newborn hearing screening program in 1994, we believe that we have become the largest provider of newborn hearing screening services in the United States. We screened approximately 270,000 babies for potential hearing loss at more than 125 hospitals across the nation in 2005. We also operate a technologically-advanced metabolic screening laboratory. This laboratory provides a screening program for newborns that we believe is among the most comprehensive in the world. By analyzing blood samples drawn from newborns during the first few days after birth, we can identify the presence of more than 50 metabolic disorders and other genetic and biochemical conditions. We have advocated expanded newborn screening for several years and newborn screening is becoming an area of increasing interest to health care providers, as well as state and federal agencies. Many metabolic disorders can result in death if not diagnosed and treated in a timely manner. Early detection and successful intervention of many conditions can often improve the long-term quality of life for patients and reduce the long-term health care costs associated with the treatment of identified conditions. We contract or coordinate with hospitals and, in some cases, state agencies to provide newborn screening services. All states mandate the screening of a limited number of metabolic disorders before newborns are discharged from the hospital so that a course of treatment can begin as soon as possible. In addition, hospitals, health care providers and parents may choose to have expanded screening for more than 50 metabolic disorders and other genetic and biochemical conditions. With respect to hearing screens, over 40 states either require newborns to be screened for potential hearing loss before being discharged from the hospital or require that parents be offered the opportunity to submit their newborns to hearing screens. OUR CLINICAL RESEARCH AND EDUCATION As part of our patient focus and ongoing commitment to improving patient care through evidenced-based medicine, we have engaged in a number of clinical research, quality and education initiatives intended to enhance the care provided to patients by our affiliated physicians, thereby contributing to improved patient outcomes and reduced long-term health system costs. 7 Table of Contents • Clinical Quality Initiatives. We monitor clinical outcomes in an effort to identify specific factors in treating babies born prematurely or with complications and to discover new methods of patient care that result in better outcomes at a reduced cost over the life of the patient. These efforts have resulted in the acceptance during 2005 of two research papers for publication in the Journal of Pediatrics: The Use of Ampicillin and Cefotaxime Compared to Ampicillin and Gentamicin is Associated with an Increased Mortality Rate During the First Three Days of Life and Medication Use in the NICU: Data from a Large National Data Set. Our efforts have also resulted in our implementation of four best demonstrated process initiatives since 2000: Improving Weight Gain for Very Low Birth Weight Infants in the First 28 Days; Improving Feeding of Breast Milk at NICU Discharge; Reducing Red Blood Cell Transfusions for 23-29 Week Infants; and Improving Compliance with AAP Recommendation on Use of Hepatitis B Vaccine in Premature Neonates. • Clinical Trials. We have managed three neonatal clinical trials to completion. Our clinical study entitled Glutamine Supplementation In Safely Reducing Hospital-Acquired Sepsis in Very Low Birth Weight Infants commenced in April 2000, resulted in a paper published in the Journal of Pediatrics in June 2003. Our clinical study entitled Epidemiology of Respiratory Failure in Near-Term Neonates, which commenced in February 2001, resulted in a paper published in the Journal of Perinatology in April 2005. A study that we commenced in March 2001 with a grant from Forest Laboratories, Comparison of Infasurf (Calfactant) and Survanta (Beractant) in the Prevention and Treatment of Respiratory Distress Syndrome also resulted in a paper published in Pediatrics in August 2005. In addition, we have several multi-center clinical trials designed for implementation during 2006. These include: 17 A-Hydroxyprogesterone Caproate for Reduction of Neonatal Mortality Due to Preterm Birth in Twin or Triplet Pregnancies; A Randomized Double-Blinded Study Comparing the Impact of One Versus Two Doses of Antenatal Steroids on Neonatal Outcomes; and A Randomized Controlled Trial Evaluating the Effect of Two Different Doses of Amino Acids on Growth and Serum Amino Acids in Premature Neonates. We have several other multi-institutional trials that are in the development stages. • Continuing Medical Education. We also make extensive physician continuing medical education (“CME”) and continuing nursing education resources available to our affiliated clinicians in an effort to ensure that they have knowledge of current treatment methodologies. We are accredited as a provider of CME Category I credits for physicians and as a provider of continuing education for nurses. We also maintain “Pediatrix University — A University Without Wallstm” which is an interactive educational website. In addition, we have a Professional Development Award program that offers a stipend and research support for neonatal and maternal-fetal fellows-in-training. We believe that these initiatives have been enhanced by our integrated national presence together with our management information systems, which are an integral component of our clinical research and education activities. See “Our Management Information Systems”. OUR PRACTICE ADMINISTRATION We provide multiple administrative services to support the practice of medicine by our affiliated physicians and improve operating efficiencies of our affiliated practice groups. • Unit Management. We appoint a senior physician practicing medicine in each NICU, PICU, maternal-fetal and cardiology practice and other subspecialty unit that we manage to act as our medical director for that unit. Each medical director is responsible for the overall management of his or her unit, including staffing and scheduling, quality of care, professional discipline, utilization review, coordinating physician recruitment, and monitoring our financial success within the unit. Medical directors also serve as a liaison with hospital administration and the community. Each medical director reports to one of our regional presidents. All medical directors and regional presidents are board-certified or board-eligible physicians in their respective specialties. • Staffing and Scheduling. We assist with staffing and scheduling physicians and advanced nurse practitioners within the units that we manage. For example, each unit or practice is staffed by at least one specialist on site or available on call. All our affiliated physicians are board-certified or board-eligible in neonatology, 8 Table of Contents maternal-fetal medicine, pediatrics, pediatric critical care or pediatric cardiology, as appropriate. We are responsible for salaries and benefits for physicians affiliated with us. In addition, we employ, compensate and manage all non-medical personnel for our affiliated physician groups. • Recruiting and Credentialing. We have significant experience in locating, qualifying, recruiting and retaining experienced neonatologists, maternal-fetal medicine subspecialists, pediatricians and pediatric subspecialists. We maintain an extensive database of maternal-fetal, neonatal and other pediatric subspecialty physicians nationwide. Our medical directors and regional presidents play a central role in the recruiting and interviewing process before candidates are introduced to hospital administrators. We check the credentials, licensure and references of all prospective affiliated physician candidates. In addition to our database of physicians, we recruit nationally through trade advertising, referrals from our affiliated physicians and attendance at conferences. • Billing, Collection and Reimbursement. We assume responsibility for contracting, billing, collection and reimbursement for services rendered by our affiliated physicians, but not charges for services provided by hospitals to the same payors. Such charges are separately billed and collected by the hospitals. We provide our affiliated physicians with a training curriculum that emphasizes detailed documentation of and proper coding protocol for all procedures performed and services provided, and we provide comprehensive internal auditing processes, all of which is designed to achieve appropriate coding, billing and collection of revenues for physician services. Our billing and collection operations are conducted from our corporate offices, as well as our regional business offices located across the United States and in Puerto Rico. • Risk Management. We maintain a risk management program focused on reducing risk and improving outcomes through evidence-based medicine, including diligent patient evaluation, documentation and access to research, education and best demonstrated processes. We maintain professional liability coverage for our national group of affiliated health care professionals. Through our risk management and medical affairs staff, we conduct risk management programs for loss prevention and early intervention in order to prevent or minimize professional liability claims. In addition, we provide regulatory expertise to assist our affiliated practice groups in complying with increasingly complex laws and regulations. We also provide management information systems, facilities management, marketing support and other services to our affiliated physicians and affiliated practice groups. OUR MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS We maintain several information systems to support our day-to-day operations and ongoing clinical research and business analysis. Our clinical information systems contain clinical information from approximately 5.5 million daily progress records relating to more than 335,000 discharged patients. These systems are used to report and analyze clinical outcomes and identify prospective clinical trials and quality initiatives. Studies from these databases have resulted in over 25 articles published in peer-reviewed medical journals. • BabySteps®. BabySteps is our clinical information management system that permits our affiliated physicians to record clinical progress notes electronically and provides a decision-tree to assist them in certain situations with the selection of appropriate billing codes. We developed this software system to replace our existing Research Data System (“RDS”). BabySteps is in the process of being implemented throughout Pediatrix. • RDS. First installed in March 1996, RDS is a centralized clinical database which is still being used at various locations within Pediatrix pending the full implementation of BabySteps. • Pediatrix Universitytm. Pediatrix University is an educational website that disseminates clinical research, continuing quality improvement and education materials for which physicians may obtain continuing medical education credit. Pediatrix University also functions as a “virtual doctors’ lounge”, enabling physicians around the country to discuss difficult or unusual cases with one another. Our management information systems are also an integral component of the billing and reimbursement process. We maintain systems that provide for electronic data interchange with payors accepting electronic 9 Table of Contents submission, including electronic claims submission, insurance benefits verification, and claims processing and remittance advice and that enable us to track numerous and diverse third-party payor relationships and payment methods. Our information systems have been designed to meet our requirements by providing for scalability and flexibility as payor groups upgrade their payment and reimbursement systems. We continually seek improvements in our systems to provide even greater streamlining of information from the clinical systems through the reimbursement process, thereby expediting the overall process. We maintain additional information systems designed to improve operating efficiencies of our affiliated practice groups, reduce physicians’ paperwork requirements and facilitate interaction among our affiliated physicians and their colleagues regarding patient care issues. Following the acquisition of a physician practice group, we implement systematic procedures to improve the acquired group’s operating and financial performance. One of our first steps is to convert the newly-acquired group to our broad-based management information system. We also maintain a database management system to assist our business development and recruiting departments to identify potential practice group acquisitions and physician candidates. RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUR PARTNERS Our business model, which has been influenced by the direct contact and daily interaction that our affiliated physicians have with their patients, emphasizes a patient-focused clinical approach that addresses the needs of our various “partners”, including hospitals, third-party payors, referring physicians, affiliated physicians and, most importantly, our patients. Our relationships with all our partners are important to our continued success. Hospitals Our relationships with our hospital partners are critical to our operations. We have been retained by over 240 hospitals to staff and manage clinical activities within specific hospital-based units, primarily NICUs. Our hospital-based focus enhances our relationships with hospitals and creates opportunities for our affiliated physicians to provide patient care in other areas of the hospital, including emergency rooms, nurseries and other departments where access to specialized obstetric and pediatric care may be critical. Because hospitals control access to their NICUs through the awarding of contracts and hospital privileges, we must maintain good relationships with our hospital partners. Our affiliated physicians are an important component of obstetric and pediatric services provided by hospitals. Our hospital partners benefit from our expertise in managing critical care units staffed with physician specialists, including managing variable admission rates, operating costs, complex reimbursement systems and other administrative burdens. We also work with our hospital partners to enhance their reputation and market our services to referring physicians, an important source of hospital admissions, within the communities served by those hospitals. Under our contracts with hospitals, we have the responsibility to manage, in many cases exclusively, the provision of physician services to the NICUs and other hospital-based units. We typically are responsible for billing patients and third-party payors for services rendered by our affiliated physicians separately from other related charges billed by the hospital to the same payors. Some of our hospital contracts require a hospital to pay us administrative fees if the hospital does not generate sufficient patient volume in order to guarantee that we receive a specified minimum revenue level. We also receive fees from hospitals for administrative services performed by our affiliated physicians providing medical director services at the hospital. Administrative fees accounted for 6% of our net patient service revenue during 2005. Our contracts with hospitals also generally require us to indemnify them and their affiliates for losses resulting from the negligence of our affiliated physicians. Our hospital contracts have terms of typically one to three years which can be terminated without cause by either party upon prior written notice, and renew automatically for additional terms of one to three years unless earlier terminated by any party. While we have in most cases been able to renew these arrangements, hospitals may cancel or not renew our arrangements, or reduce or eliminate our administrative fees in the future. Third-Party Payors Our relationships with government-sponsored plans (principally Medicaid), managed care organizations and commercial health insurance payors are vital to our business. We seek to maintain professional working 10 Table of Contents relationships with our third-party payors and streamline the administrative process of billing and collection, and assist our patients and their families in understanding their health insurance coverage and any balance due for co-payment, co-insurance deductible, or out-of-network benefit limitations. In addition, through our quality initiatives and continuing research and education efforts, we have sought to enhance clinical care provided to patients, which we believe benefits third-party payors by contributing to improved patient outcomes and reduced long-term health system costs. We receive compensation for professional services provided by our affiliated physicians to patients based upon rates for specific services provided, principally from third-party payors. Our billed charges are substantially the same for all parties in a particular geographic area, regardless of the party responsible for paying the bill for our services. A significant portion of our net patient service revenue is received from government-sponsored plans, principally state Medicaid programs. Medicaid programs can be either standard fee-for-service payment programs or managed care programs in which states have contracted with health insurance companies to run local or state-wide health plans with features similar to Health Maintenance Organizations. Our compensation rates under standard Medicaid programs are established by state governments and are not negotiated. Rates under Medicaid managed care programs are negotiated but are similar to rates established under standard Medicaid programs. Although Medicaid rates vary across the individual states, these rates are generally much lower in comparison to private sector health plan rates. In order to participate in the Medicaid programs, we and our affiliated practices must comply with stringent and often complex enrollment and reimbursement requirements. Different states also impose differing standards for their Medicaid programs. See “Government Regulation — Government Reimbursement Requirements” below. We also receive compensation pursuant to contracts with commercial payors that offer a wide variety of health insurance products, such as Health Maintenance Organizations, Preferred Provider Organizations, and Exclusive Provider Organizations, that are subject to various state laws and regulations, as well as self-insured organizations subject to federal ERISA requirements. We seek to secure mutually agreeable contracts with payors that enable our affiliated physicians to be listed as in-network participants within the payors’ provider networks. We generally contract with commercial payors through our affiliated professional contractors, principally on a local basis. Subject to applicable laws and regulations, the terms, conditions and compensation rates of our contracts with commercial third-party payors are negotiated and often vary widely across markets and among payors. In some cases, we contract with organizations that establish and maintain provider networks and then rent or lease such networks to the actual payor. Our contracts with commercial payors typically provide for discounted fee-for-service arrangements and grant each party the right to terminate the contracts without cause upon prior written notice. In addition, these contracts generally give commercial payors the right to audit our billings and related reimbursement to us for professional services provided by our affiliated physicians. If we do not have a contractual relationship with a health insurance payor, we generally bill the payor our full billed charges. If payment is less than billed charges, we bill the balance to the patient, subject to state and federal billing practice regulations. Although we maintain standard billing and collections procedures with appropriate discounts for prompt payment, we also provide discounts in certain hardship situations where patients and their families do not have financial resources necessary to pay the amount due for services rendered. Any amounts written-off related to private-pay patients are based on the specific facts and circumstances related to each individual patient account. Referring Physicians We consider referring physicians to be our partners, and our affiliated physicians seek to establish and maintain professional relationships with referring physicians in the communities where they practice. Because patient volumes at our NICUs are based in part on referrals from other physicians, particularly obstetricians, it is important that we are responsive to the needs of referring physicians in the communities in which we operate. We believe that our community presence, through our hospital coverage and outpatient clinics, assists referring obstetricians, office-based pediatricians and family physicians with their practices. Our affiliated physicians are able to provide comprehensive maternal-fetal-newborn and pediatric subspecialty care to patients using the latest advances in methodologies, supporting the local referring physician community with 24-hours-a-day, seven-days-a-week on-site or on-call coverage. 11 Table of Contents Affiliated Physicians and Practice Groups One of our most important assets is our relationship with our affiliated physicians. Our affiliated physicians are organized in traditional practice group structures. In accordance with applicable state laws, our affiliated practice groups are responsible for the provision of medical care to patients. Our affiliated practice groups are separate legal entities organized under state law as professional associations, corporations and partnerships, which we sometimes refer to as “our affiliated professional contractors.” Each of our affiliated professional contractors is owned by a licensed physician affiliated with PMG through employment or another contractual relationship. Our national infrastructure enables more effective and efficient sharing of new discoveries and clinical outcomes data, including implementation of best demonstrated processes, and affords access to sophisticated information systems, and clinical research and education. Our affiliated professional contractors employ or contract with physicians to provide clinical services in certain states and Puerto Rico. In most of our affiliated practice groups, each physician has entered into an employment agreement with us or one of our affiliated professional contractors providing for a base salary and incentive bonus eligibility and having typically a term of three to five years which usually can be terminated without cause by any party upon prior written notice. We typically are responsible for billing patients and third-party payors for services rendered by our affiliated physicians separately from other charges billed by hospitals to the same payors. Each physician must hold a valid license to practice medicine in the state in which he or she provides patient care and must become a member of the medical staff, with appropriate privileges, at each hospital at which he or she practices. Substantially all the physicians employed by us or our affiliated professional contractors have agreed not to compete within a specified geographic area for a certain period after termination of employment. Although we believe that the non-competition covenants of our affiliated physicians are reasonable in scope and duration and therefore enforceable under applicable state laws, we cannot predict whether a court or arbitration panel would enforce these covenants. Our hospital contracts also typically require that we and the physicians performing services maintain minimum levels of professional and general liability insurance. We negotiate those policies and contract and pay the premiums for such insurance on behalf of the physicians. Each of our affiliated professional contractors has entered into a comprehensive management agreement with PMG that is long-term in nature, and in most cases permanent, subject only to a right of termination by PMG (except in the case of gross negligence, fraud or illegal acts of PMG). Under the terms of these management agreements, PMG is paid for its services based on the performance of the applicable practice group, and PMG is responsible for the provision of non-medical services and the compensation and benefits of the practices’ non-physician medical personnel. See “Government Regulation — Fee Splitting; Corporate Practice of Medicine” and Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. COMPETITION Competition in our business is generally based upon a number of factors, including reputation, experience and level of care, and our affiliated physicians’ ability to provide cost-effective, quality clinical care. The nature of competition for our hospital-based practices, such as neonatology and pediatric intensive care, differs significantly from competition for our office-based practices. Our hospital-based practices compete nationally with other pediatric health services companies and physician groups for hospital contracts and qualified physicians. In some instances, they also compete on a more local basis for referrals from physicians and transports from surrounding hospitals. Our office-based practices, such as maternal-fetal medicine and pediatric cardiology, compete for patients with office-based practices in that specialty. Because our operations consist primarily of physician services provided within hospital-based units, primarily NICUs, we compete with others for contracts with hospitals to provide neonatal services. We also compete with hospitals themselves to provide such services. Hospitals may employ neonatologists directly or contract with other physician groups to provide services either on an exclusive or non-exclusive basis. A hospital not otherwise competing with us may facilitate competition by creating a new NICU, expanding the capacity of an existing NICU or upgrading the level of its existing NICU and then awarding the contract to operate the neonatal service to a competing group or company. Because hospitals control access to their NICUs by awarding contracts and hospital 12 Table of Contents privileges, we must maintain good relationships with our hospital partners. Our contracts with hospitals generally provide that they may be terminated without cause upon prior written notice. The health care industry is highly competitive. Companies in other segments of the industry, some of which have financial and other resources greater than ours, may become competitors in providing neonatal, maternal-fetal and other pediatric subspecialty care or newborn screening services. GOVERNMENT REGULATION The health care industry is governed by a framework of federal and state laws, rules and regulations that are extensive and complex and for which, in many cases, the industry has the benefit of only limited judicial and regulatory interpretation. If we or one of our affiliated practice groups is found to have violated these laws, rules or regulations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Moreover, health care continues to attract legislative interest and public attention. Changes in health care legislation or government regulation may restrict our existing operations, limit the expansion of our business or impose additional compliance, requirements and costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. Licensing and Certification Each state imposes licensing requirements on individual physicians and clinical professionals, and on facilities operated or utilized by health care companies like us. Many states require regulatory approval, including certificates of need, before establishing certain types of health care facilities, offering certain services or expending amounts in excess of statutory thresholds for health care equipment, facilities or programs. We and our affiliated physicians also are required to meet applicable Medicaid provider requirements under state laws and regulations. In addition, our metabolic screening laboratory is required to be certified pursuant to the federal Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (“CLIA”). Fee-Splitting; Corporate Practice of Medicine Many states have laws that prohibit business corporations, such as PMG, from practicing medicine, employing physicians to practice medicine, exercising control over medical decisions by physicians, or engaging in certain arrangements, such as fee-splitting, with physicians. In light of these restrictions, we operate by maintaining long-term management contracts with affiliated professional contractors, which employ or contract with physicians to provide physician services. Under these arrangements, we perform only non-medical administrative services, do not represent that we offer medical services and do not exercise influence or control over the practice of medicine by the physicians employed by our affiliated professional contractors. In states where fee-splitting is prohibited, the fees that we receive from our affiliated professional contractors have been established on a basis that we believe complies with the applicable states’ laws. Although the relevant laws in these states have been subjected to limited judicial and regulatory interpretation, we believe that we are in compliance with applicable state laws in relation to the corporate practice of medicine and fee-splitting. However, regulatory authorities or other parties, including our affiliated physicians, may assert that, despite these arrangements, we are engaged in the corporate practice of medicine or that our contractual arrangements with our affiliated professional contractors constitute unlawful fee-splitting, in which case we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, our contracts could be found legally invalid and unenforceable (in whole or in part) or we could be required to restructure our contractual arrangements with our affiliated professional contractors. Fraud and Abuse Provisions Existing federal laws governing Medicaid and other federal health care programs, as well as similar state laws, impose a variety of fraud and abuse prohibitions on health care companies like PMG. These laws are interpreted broadly and enforced aggressively by multiple government agencies, including the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services (the “OIG”), the Department of Justice and various state authorities. In addition, in the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, Congress created a new Medicaid Integrity Program to enhance 13 Table of Contents federal and state efforts to detect Medicaid fraud, waste and abuse and provide financial incentives for states to enact their own false claims acts as an additional enforcement tool against Medicaid fraud and abuse. The fraud and abuse laws include extensive federal and state regulations applicable to our financial relationships with hospitals, referring physicians and other health care entities. In particular, the federal anti-kickback law prohibits the offer, payment or receipt of any remuneration in return for either referring Medicaid or other government-sponsored health care program business, or purchasing, leasing, ordering, or arranging for or recommending any service or item for which payment may be made by a government-sponsored health care program. In addition, federal physician self-referral legislation, commonly known as the “Stark Law,” prohibits a physician from ordering certain designated health services reimbursable by Medicaid from an entity with which the physician has a prohibited financial relationship. These laws are broadly worded and, in the case of the anti-kickback law, have been broadly interpreted by federal courts, and potentially subject many business arrangements to government investigation and prosecution, which can be costly and time consuming. Violations of these laws are punishable by substantial penalties, including monetary fines, civil penalties, criminal sanctions (in the case of the anti-kickback law), exclusion from participation in government-sponsored health care programs, and forfeiture of amounts collected in violation of such laws, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. For example, if we or our affiliated professional contractors were excluded from any government-sponsored healthcare programs, we would be prohibited from submitting claims for reimbursement under such programs, and we would also be unable to contract with other healthcare providers, such as hospitals, to provide services to them. Many of the states in which we operate also have similar anti-kickback and self-referral laws which are applicable to our government and non-government business and which also authorize substantial penalties for violations. There are a variety of other types of federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including laws authorizing the imposition of criminal, civil and administrative penalties for filing false or fraudulent claims for reimbursement with government health care programs. These laws include the civil False Claims Act (“FCA”), which prohibits the filing of false claims in federal health care programs, including Medicaid, the TRICARE program for military dependents and retirees, and the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program. Substantial civil fines can be imposed for violating the FCA. Furthermore, to prove a violation of the FCA requires only that the government show that the individual or company that filed the false claim acted in “reckless disregard” of the truth or falsity of the claim, notwithstanding that there was no intent to defraud the government program and no actual knowledge that the claim was false (which are required to be shown to uphold a typical criminal conviction). The FCA also includes “whistleblower” provisions that permit private citizens to sue a claimant on behalf of the government and thereby share in any fines imposed under the law. In recent years, many cases have been brought against health care companies by such “whistleblowers,” which have resulted in the imposition of substantial fines on the companies involved. In addition, federal and state agencies that administer health care programs have at their disposal statutes, commonly known as the “civil money penalty laws,” that authorize substantial administrative fines and exclusion from government programs in any case where the individual or company that filed a false claim, or caused a false claim to be filed, knew or should have known that the claim was false or fraudulent. As under the FCA, it often is not necessary for the agency to show that the claimant had actual knowledge that the claim was false or fraudulent in order to impose these penalties. The civil and administrative penalty statutes are being applied in an increasingly broader range of circumstances. For example, government authorities often argue that claiming reimbursement for services that fail to meet applicable quality standards may, under certain circumstances, violate these statutes. Government authorities also often take the position that claims for services that were induced by kickbacks, Stark Law violations or other illicit marketing schemes are fraudulent and, therefore, violate the false claims statutes. If we or our affiliated professional contractors were excluded from any government-sponsored healthcare programs, not only would we be prohibited from submitting claims for reimbursement under such programs, but we also would be unable to contract with other healthcare providers, such as hospitals, to provide services to them. Although we intend to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable federal and state fraud and abuse laws, many of the laws and regulations applicable to us, including those relating to billing and those relating to financial relationships with physicians and hospitals, are broadly worded and may be interpreted or applied by prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authorities in ways that we cannot predict. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our arrangements or business practices will not be subject to government scrutiny or be found to violate 14 Table of Contents applicable fraud and abuse laws. Moreover, the standards of business conduct expected of health care companies under these laws and regulations have become more stringent in recent years, even in instances where there has been no change in statutory language. If there is a determination by government authorities that we have not complied with any of these laws and regulations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. See “Government Investigations.” Government Reimbursement Requirements In order to participate in various state Medicaid programs, we and our affiliated practices must comply with stringent and often complex enrollment and reimbursement requirements. Moreover, different states impose differing standards for their Medicaid programs. While our compliance program requires that we and our affiliated practices adhere to the laws and regulations applicable to the government programs in which we participate, our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Government Regulation-Fraud and Abuse Provisions”, “Government Regulation-Compliance Plan”, “Government Investigations” and “Other Legal Proceedings.” In addition, Medicaid and other government health care programs (such as the TRICARE program) are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations, requirements for utilization review and new governmental funding restrictions, all of which may materially increase or decrease program payments as well as affect the cost of providing services and the timing of payments to providers. Moreover, because these programs generally provide for reimbursements on a fee schedule basis rather than on a charge-related basis, we generally cannot increase our revenues by increasing the amount we charge for our services. To the extent our costs increase, we may not be able to recover our increased costs from these programs, and cost containment measures and market changes in non-governmental insurance plans have generally restricted our ability to recover, or shift to non-governmental payors, these increased costs. In attempts to limit federal and state spending, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of proposals to limit or reduce Medicaid reimbursement for various services. Our business may be significantly and adversely affected by any such changes in reimbursement policies and other legislative initiatives aimed at reducing health care costs associated with Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. Our business also could be adversely affected by reductions in or limitations of reimbursement amounts or rates under these government programs, reductions in funding of these programs or elimination of coverage for certain individuals or treatments under these programs, which may be implemented as a result of: • increasing budgetary and cost containment pressures on the health care industry generally; • new federal or state legislation reducing state Medicaid funding and reimbursements or increasing the proportion of state discretionary funding; • new state legislation mandating state Medicaid managed care or encouraging managed care organizations to provide benefits to Medicaid enrollees, thereby reducing Medicaid reimbursement payments to us; • state Medicaid waiver requests granted by the federal government, increasing discretion with respect to, or reducing coverage or funding for, certain individuals or treatments under Medicaid, even in the absence of new federal legislation; • increasing state discretion in Medicaid expenditures, which may result in decreased reimbursement for, or other limitations on, the services that we provide; or • other changes in reimbursement regulations, policies or interpretations that place material limitations on reimbursement amounts or coverage for services that we provide. Antitrust The health care industry is highly regulated for antitrust purposes and we believe that it will continue to be subject to close regulatory scrutiny. In recent years, the Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”), the Department of Justice, and state Attorney Generals have taken increasing steps to review and, in some cases, take enforcement action against, business conduct and acquisitions in the health care industry. We continue to be the subject of an 15 Table of Contents active and ongoing investigation by the FTC relating to issues of competition in connection with our 2001 acquisition of Magella Healthcare Corporation (“Magella”) and our business practices generally. See “Government Investigations”. Violations of antitrust laws are punishable by substantial penalties, including significant monetary fines, civil penalties, criminal sanctions, and consent decrees and injunctions prohibiting certain activities or requiring divestiture or discontinuance of business operations. Any of these penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Medical Records Privacy Legislation Numerous federal and state laws and regulations govern the collection, dissemination, use and confidentiality of patient health information, including the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and related rules (“HIPAA”), violations of which are punishable by monetary fines, civil penalties and, in some cases, criminal sanctions. As part of our medical record keeping, third-party billing, research and other services, we and our affiliated practices collect and maintain patient health information. Pursuant to HIPAA, the Department of Health and Human Services (“DHHS”) has adopted standards to protect the privacy and security of health-related information. DHHS’s privacy standards became effective in April 2003 and apply to medical records and other individually identifiable health information used or disclosed by healthcare providers, hospitals, health plans and healthcare clearinghouses in any form, whether electronically, on paper, or orally. We have implemented privacy policies and procedures, including training programs, designed to ensure compliance with the HIPAA privacy regulations. DHHS’s security standards became effective in April 2005 and require healthcare providers to implement administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect the integrity, confidentiality and availability of electronically received, maintained or transmitted (including between us and our affiliated practices) individually identifiable health-related information. We have implemented security policies, procedures and systems designed to facilitate compliance with the HIPAA security regulations. Environmental Regulations Our health care operations generate medical waste that must be disposed of in compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws, rules and regulations. Our outpatient and laboratory operations are subject to compliance with various other environmental laws, rules and regulations. Such compliance does not, and we anticipate that such compliance will not, materially affect our capital expenditures, financial position or results of operations. Compliance Plan We have adopted a Compliance Plan that reflects our commitment to complying with laws and regulations applicable to our business and meeting our ethical obligations in conducting our business. We believe our Compliance Plan provides a solid framework to meet this commitment, including: • a Chief Compliance Officer who reports to the Board of Directors on a regular basis; • a Compliance Committee consisting of our senior executives; • a formal internal audit function, including a Director of Internal Audit who reports to the Audit Committee on a regular basis; • our Code of Conduct, which is applicable to our employees, independent contractors, officers and directors; • our Code of Professional Conduct — Finance, which is applicable to our finance personnel, including our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief accounting officer and controller; • an organizational structure designed to integrate our compliance objectives into our corporate, regional and practice levels; and • education, monitoring and corrective action programs designed to establish methods to promote the understanding of our Compliance Plan and adherence to its requirements. 16 Table of Contents The foundation of our Compliance Plan is our Code of Conduct, which is intended to be a comprehensive statement of the ethical and legal standards governing the daily activities of our employees, affiliated professionals, independent contractors, officers and directors. All our personnel are required to abide by, and are given a thorough introduction to, our Code of Conduct. In addition, all employees and affiliated professionals are expected to report incidents that they believe in good faith may be in violation of our Code of Conduct. We maintain a toll-free hotline to permit individuals to report compliance concerns on an anonymous basis and obtain answers to questions about our Code of Conduct. Our Compliance Plan, including our Code of Conduct, is administered by our Chief Compliance Officer with oversight by our Chief Executive Officer and Board of Directors. We also have a Code of Professional Conduct-Finance, which is applicable to our finance personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer (who is also our Chief Accounting Officer), Vice President of Accounting and Finance and Controller. A copy of our Code of Conduct and our Code of Professional Conduct-Finance is available on our website, www.pediatrix.com. Any amendments or waivers to our Code of Professional Conduct — Finance will be disclosed on our website within four business days following the date of the amendment or waiver. GOVERNMENT INVESTIGATIONS In June 2002, we received a written request from the Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”) to submit information on a voluntary basis in connection with an investigation of issues of competition related to our May 2001 acquisition of Magella and our business practices generally. In February 2003, we received additional information requests from the FTC in the form of a Subpoena and Civil Investigative Demand. Pursuant to these requests, we produced documents and information relating to the acquisition and our business practices in certain markets. We have also provided on a voluntary basis additional information and testimony on issues related to the investigation. At this time, the investigation remains active and ongoing and we are cooperating fully with the FTC. Beginning in April 1999, we received requests from various federal and state investigators for information relating to our billing practices for services reimbursed by Medicaid, and the United States Department of Defense’s TRICARE program for military dependents and retirees. Since then, a number of the individual state investigations were resolved through agreements to refund certain overpayments and reimburse certain costs to the states. In June 2003, we were advised by a United States Attorney’s Office that it was conducting a civil investigation with respect to our Medicaid billing practices nationwide. This federal Medicaid investigation, the TRICARE investigation, and related state inquiries are being coordinated together and are active and ongoing. In July 2005, we were informed by the United States Attorney’s Office that the federal Medicaid investigation was initiated as a result of a complaint filed under seal by a third party, known as “qui tam” or “whistleblower” complaint, under the federal False Claims Act which permits private individuals to bring confidential actions on behalf of the government. Because the qui tam complaint is under seal, we have not been able to review it; however, we have been informed by the United States Attorney’s Office that its civil investigation encompasses all matters raised by the complaint. On February 8, 2006, we announced that we reached an agreement in principle on the amount of a financial settlement with federal and state authorities that would resolve the Medicaid, TRICARE and state billing investigations, subject to, among other things, completion of negotiation and approval of a final settlement agreement including a corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5, “Accounting for Contingencies,” as a result of this agreement in principle, our reserves relating to these matters were increased to $25.1 million. Despite the agreement in principle on the financial portion of the settlement, there can be no assurance that a final settlement agreement will be reached. Currently, management cannot predict the timing or outcome of any of these pending investigations and inquiries and whether they will have, individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or the trading price of our common stock. We also expect that additional audits, inquiries and investigations from government authorities and agencies will continue to occur in the ordinary course of business. Such audits, inquiries and investigations and their ultimate resolutions, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or the trading price of our common stock. 17 Table of Contents OTHER LEGAL PROCEEDINGS In the ordinary course of our business, we become involved in pending and threatened legal actions and proceedings, most of which involve claims of medical malpractice related to medical services provided by our affiliated physicians. Our contracts with hospitals generally require us to indemnify them and their affiliates for losses resulting from the negligence of our affiliated physicians. We may also become subject to other lawsuits which could involve large claims and significant defense costs. We believe, based upon our review of pending actions and proceedings, that the outcome of such legal actions and proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The outcome of such actions and proceedings, however, cannot be predicted with certainty and an unfavorable resolution of one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. Although we currently maintain liability insurance coverage intended to cover professional liability and certain other claims, this coverage generally must be renewed annually and may not continue to be available to us in future years at acceptable costs and on favorable terms. In addition, we cannot assure that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover liabilities arising out of claims asserted against us in the future where the outcomes of such claims are unfavorable to us. With respect to professional liability insurance, we self-insure our liabilities to pay deductibles through our wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary. Liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage, including coverage for professional liability and certain other claims, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Professional and General Liability Coverage.” PROFESSIONAL AND GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE We maintain professional and general liability insurance policies with third-party insurers on a claims-made basis, subject to deductibles, policy aggregates, exclusions, and other restrictions, in accordance with standard industry practice. We believe that our insurance coverage is appropriate based upon our claims experience and the nature and risks of our business. However, we cannot assure that any pending or future claim will not be successful or if successful will not exceed the limits of available insurance coverage. Our business entails an inherent risk of claims of medical malpractice against our affiliated physicians and us. We contract and pay premiums for third-party professional liability insurance that indemnifies us and our affiliated health care professionals on a claims-made basis for losses incurred related to medical malpractice litigation. Professional liability coverage is required in order for our affiliated physicians to maintain hospital privileges. We self-insure our liabilities to pay deductibles under our professional liability insurance coverage through a wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary. We record in our consolidated financial statements estimates for our liabilities for self-insured deductibles and claims incurred but not reported based on an actuarial valuation using historical loss patterns. Liabilities for claims incurred but not reported are not discounted. Because many factors can affect historical and future loss patterns, the determination of an appropriate reserve involves complex, subjective judgment, and actual results may vary significantly from estimates. If the deductibles and other amounts that we are actually required to pay materially exceed the estimates that have been reserved, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our current professional liability insurance policy expires May 1, 2006 and we are currently reviewing our coverage options, which may include a higher self-insured retention. There can be no assurance that we will obtain substantially similar coverage upon expiration at acceptable costs and on favorable terms. Based upon current conditions in the insurance markets, we do not expect that our professional liability insurance premiums will increase significantly over prior periods. EMPLOYEES AND PROFESSIONALS UNDER CONTRACT In addition to the approximately 834 practicing physicians affiliated with us as of December 31, 2005, Pediatrix employed or contracted with approximately 521 other clinical professionals and 1,658 other full-time and part-time employees. None of our employees is a member of a labor union or subject to a collective bargaining agreement. 18 Table of Contents GEOGRAPHIC COVERAGE We provide services in 32 states, including Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, Missouri, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, Washington and West Virginia, and Puerto Rico. During 2005, approximately 58% of our net patient service revenue was generated by operations in our five largest states. Our operations in Texas accounted for approximately 29% of our net patient service revenue for the same period. Although we continue to seek to diversify the geographic scope of our operations, primarily through acquisitions of physician group practices, we may not be able to implement successfully or realize the expected benefits of any of these initiatives. Adverse changes or conditions affecting states in which our operations are concentrated, such as health care reforms, changes in laws and regulations, reduced Medicaid reimbursements or government investigations, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. SERVICE MARKS We have registered the service marks “Pediatrix Medical Group,” “Obstetrix Medical Group,” “Pediatrix University” and the baby design logo, among others, with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. In addition, we have pending applications to register the trademarks and service marks for “Pediatrix Screening” and “Pediatrix University — A University Without Walls.” INFORMATION AVAILABLE ON OUR WEBSITE Our annual proxy statements, reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those statements and reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through our Internet website, www.pediatrix.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Our proxy statements and reports may also be obtained directly from the SEC’s Internet website at www.sec.gov or from the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not incorporated into or deemed a part of this Annual Report. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. The Federal Trade Commission or other parties may assert that our business practices violate antitrust laws. The health care industry is highly regulated for antitrust purposes. In recent years, the FTC, the Department of Justice, and state Attorney Generals have increasingly reviewed and, in some cases, taken enforcement action against business conduct, including acquisitions, in the health care industry. We continue to be the subject of an active and ongoing investigation by the FTC relating to issues of competition in connection with our 2001 acquisition of Magella and our business practices generally. See “Government Regulation — Antitrust” and “Government Investigations”. At this time, we are unable to predict the timing or outcome of this investigation and whether it will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. We are subject to billing investigations by federal and state government authorities. State and federal statutes impose substantial penalties, including civil and criminal fines, exclusion from participation in government health care programs and imprisonment, on entities or individuals (including any individual corporate officers or physicians deemed responsible) that fraudulently or wrongfully bill governmental or other third-party payors for health care services. In addition, federal laws allow a private person to bring a civil 19 Table of Contents action in the name of the United States government for false billing violations. See “Government Regulation — Fraud and Abuse”. We have agreed in principle on a financial settlement with respect to ongoing investigations by federal and state authorities related to our billing practices for services reimbursed by the Medicaid program nationwide, the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program and the TRICARE program for military dependents and retirees. The agreement in principle is subject to, among other things, completion of negotiation and approval of a final settlement agreement with relevant federal and state authorities, including a corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services. Therefore, there can be no assurance that a final settlement agreement will be reached. See “Government Investigations”. We believe that additional audits, inquiries and investigations from government agencies will continue to occur from time to time in the ordinary course of our business, which could result in substantial defense costs to us and a diversion of management’s time and attention. We cannot predict whether any such pending or future audits, inquiries or investigations, or the public disclosure of such matters, will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. The health care industry is highly regulated and government authorities may determine that we have failed to comply with applicable laws or regulations. The health care industry and physicians’ medical practices, including the health care and other services that we and our affiliated physicians provide, are subject to extensive and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations, compliance with which imposes substantial costs on us. Of particular importance are: • federal laws (including the federal False Claims Act) that prohibit entities and individuals from knowingly or recklessly making claims to Medicaid and other government programs, as well as third party payors, that contain false or fraudulent information; • a provision of the Social Security Act, commonly referred to as the “anti-kickback” law, that prohibits the knowing and willful offering, payment, solicitation or receipt of any bribe, kickback, rebate or other remuneration, in cash or in kind, in return for the referral or recommendation of patients for items and services covered, in whole or in part, by federal healthcare programs, such as Medicaid; • a provision of the Social Security Act, commonly referred to as the Stark Law, that, subject to limited exceptions, prohibits physicians from referring Medicaid patients to an entity for the provision of certain “designated health services” if the physician or a member of such physician’s immediate family has a direct or indirect financial relationship (including a compensation arrangement) with the entity; • a provision of the Social Security Act that imposes criminal penalties on healthcare providers who fail to disclose or refund known overpayments; • similar state law provisions pertaining to anti-kickback, fee-splitting, self-referral and false claims issues, which typically are not limited to relationships involving federal payors; • provisions of, and regulations relating to, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 that prohibit knowingly and willfully executing a scheme or artifice to defraud a healthcare benefit program or falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any material false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services; • state laws that prohibit general business corporations from practicing medicine, controlling physicians’ medical decisions or engaging in certain practices, such as splitting fees with physicians; • federal and state laws that prohibit providers from billing and receiving payment from Medicaid for services unless the services are medically necessary, adequately and accurately documented, and billed using codes that accurately reflect the type and level of services rendered; • federal and state laws pertaining to the provision of services by non-physician practitioners, such as advanced nurse practitioners, physician assistants and other clinical professionals, physician supervision of such services, and reimbursement requirements that may be dependent on the manner in which the services are provided and documented; 20 Table of Contents • federal laws that impose civil administrative sanctions for, among other violations, inappropriate billing of services to federally funded healthcare programs, inappropriately reducing hospital care lengths of stay for such patients, or employing individuals who are excluded from participation in federally funded healthcare programs; and • provisions of the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 limiting how healthcare providers may use and disclose individually identifiable health information and the security measures taken in connection with that information and related systems, as well as similar state laws. In addition, we believe that our business will continue to be subject to increasing regulation, the scope and effect of which we cannot predict. See “Government Regulation”. We are currently and may in the future become the subject of regulatory or other investigations or proceedings, and our interpretations of applicable laws, rules and regulations may be challenged. For example, regulatory authorities or other parties may assert that our arrangements with our affiliated professional contractors constitute fee-splitting or the corporate practice of medicine and seek to invalidate these arrangements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. See “Government Regulation — Fee Splitting; Corporate Practice of Medicine”. Regulatory authorities or other parties also could assert that our relationships, including fee arrangements, among our affiliated professional contractors, hospital clients or referring physicians violate the anti-kickback, fee splitting or self-referral laws and regulations. See “Government Regulation — Fraud and Abuse Provisions” and “— Government Reimbursement Requirements”. Such investigations, proceedings and challenges could result in substantial defense costs to us and a diversion of management’s time and attention. In addition, violations of these laws are punishable by monetary fines, civil and criminal penalties, exclusion from participation in government-sponsored health care programs, and forfeiture of amounts collected in violation of such laws and regulations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. We are subject to changes in private employer healthcare insurance and government-sponsored programs. We believe that over the past several years there has been a general decline in private employers that offer healthcare insurance coverage to their employees, and for those employers who do offer healthcare insurance coverage, an increase in the required contributions from employees for coverage for them and their families. These trends could continue or accelerate and, as a consequence, the number of patients who are uninsured or participate in government-sponsored programs may increase. Payments received from government-sponsored programs are substantially less than payments received from managed care and other third party payors. A payor mix shift from managed care and other third party payors to government payors results in an increase in our estimated provision for contractual adjustments and uncollectibles and a corresponding decrease in our net patient service revenue. Further increases in the government component of our payor mix at the expense of other third-party payors could result in a significant reduction in our average reimbursement rates. Moreover, changes in eligibility requirements for government-sponsored programs could increase the number of patients who participate in such programs or the number of uninsured patients. In addition, private employers who offer healthcare insurance could change employee coverage by increasing patient responsibility amounts. These factors and events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. Government programs or private insurers may limit, reduce or make retroactive adjustments to reimbursement amounts or rates. A significant portion of our net patient revenue is derived from payments made by government-sponsored health care programs, principally Medicaid. These government programs, as well as private insurers, have taken and may continue to take steps, including a movement toward managed care, to control the cost, eligibility for, use and delivery of health care services as a result of budgetary constraints, cost containment pressures and other reasons, including those described above under “Government Regulation — Government Reimbursement Requirements”. As a result, payments from government programs or private payors may decrease significantly. Our business may be materially affected by limitations of or reductions in reimbursement amounts or rates or elimination of coverage for 21 Table of Contents certain individuals or treatments. Moreover, because government programs generally provide for reimbursements on a fee schedule basis rather than on a charge-related basis, we generally cannot increase our revenues from these programs by increasing the amount we charge for our services. To the extent our costs increase, we may not be able to recover our increased costs from these programs and cost containment measures and market changes in non-governmental insurance plans have generally restricted our ability to recover, or shift to non-governmental payors, these increased costs. In addition, funds we receive from third-party payors are subject to audit with respect to the proper billing for physician and ancillary services and, accordingly, our revenue from these programs may be adjusted retroactively. Any retroactive adjustments to our reimbursement amounts could have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock. Our affiliated physicians may not appropriately record or document services they provide. Our affiliated physicians are responsible for assigning reimbursement codes and maintaining sufficient supporting documentation for the services they provide. We use this information to seek reimbursement for their services from third-party payors. If these physicians do not appropriately code or document their services, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may not find suitable acquisition candidates or successfully integrate our acquisitions. Our acquisitions may affect our payor mix. We have expanded and intend to continue to seek to expand our presence in new and existing metropolitan areas for us by acquiring established neonatal and maternal-fetal physician practice groups and other complementary pediatric subspecialty physician groups, such as, pediatric cardiologists, pediatric intensivists and pediatric hospitalists. We also intend to explore other strategic opportunities that are related to our physician and newborn screening services and in areas within health care that would allow us to benefit from our current business expertise. For example, we have been exploring opportunities within other hospital-based specialties that have operational characteristics that are similar to neonatology, such as anesthesiology. However, our acquisition strategy involves numerous risks and uncertainties, including: • We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or strategic opportunities or implement successfully or realize the expected benefits of any suitable opportunities. In addition, we compete for acquisitions with other potential acquirers, some of which may have greater financial or operational resources than we do. This competition may intensify due to the ongoing consolidation in the health care industry, which may increase our acquisition costs. • We may not be able to successfully integrate completed acquisitions, including our recent acquisitions. Integrating completed acquisitions into our existing operations involves numerous short-term and long-term risks, including diversion of our management’s attention, failure to retain key personnel, long-term value of acquired intangible assets and acquisition expenses. In addition, we may be required to comply with laws and regulations that may differ from those of the states in which our operations are currently conducted. • We cannot be certain that any acquired business will continue to maintain its pre-acquisition revenues and growth rates or be financially successful. In addition, we cannot be certain of the extent of any unknown or contingent liabilities of any acquired business, including liabilities for failure to comply with applicable laws, including laws relating to medical malpractice. We may incur material liabilities for past activities of acquired businesses. • We could incur or assume indebtedness and issue equity in connection with acquisitions. The issuance of shares of our common stock for an acquisition may result in dilution to our existing shareholders and, depending on the number of shares that we issue, the resale of such shares could affect the trading price of our common stock. • We may acquire businesses that derive a greater portion of their revenue from government-sponsored programs than what we recognize on a consolidated basis. These acquisitions could effect our overall payor mix in future periods. 22 Table of Contents • Acquisitions of practices outside of our current areas could entail financial and operating risks not fully anticipated. Such acquisitions could divert management’s attention and our resources. Federal and state laws that protect the privacy and security of patient health information may increase our costs and limit our ability to collect and use that information. Numerous federal and state laws and regulations govern the collection, dissemination, use, security and confidentiality of patient-identifiable health information, including the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and related rules, or HIPAA. As part of our medical record keeping, third-party billing, research and other services, we collect and maintain patient health information in paper and electronic format. New patient health information standards, whether implemented pursuant to HIPAA, congressional action or otherwise, could have a significant effect on the manner in which we handle health care-related data and communicate with payors, and compliance with these standards could impose significant costs on us or limit our ability to offer services, thereby negatively impacting the business opportunities available to us. If we do not comply with existing or new laws and regulations related to patient health information we could be subject to monetary fines, civil penalties or criminal sanctions. There may be federal and state health care reform, or changes in the interpretation of governmentsponsored health care programs. Federal and state governments continue to focus significant attention on health care reform. In recent years, many legislative proposals have been introduced or proposed in Congress and some state legislatures that would effect major changes in the health care system. Among the proposals which are being or have been considered are cost controls on hospital physicians and other providers, healthcare insurance reforms, Medicaid reforms and the creation of a single government health plan that would cover all citizens. We cannot predict which, if any, proposal that has been or will be considered will be adopted or what effect any future legislation will have on us. Changes in healthcare laws or regulations could reduce our revenue, impose additional costs on us, or affect our opportunities for continued growth. We may not be able to successfully recruit and retain qualified physicians to serve as affiliated physicians or independent contractors. We are dependent upon our ability to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified physicians to service existing units at hospitals and our affiliated practices, and expand our business. We compete with many types of health care providers, including teaching, research and government institutions and other practice groups, for the services of qualified physicians. We may not be able to continue to recruit new physicians or renew contracts with existing physicians on acceptable terms. If we do not do so, our ability to service existing or new hospitals units and staff existing or new office-based practices could be adversely affected. A significant number of our affiliated physicians could leave our affiliated practices or our affiliated professional contractors may be unable to enforce the non-competition covenants of departed physicians. Our affiliated professional contractors usually enter into employment agreements with our affiliated physicians which typically can be terminated without cause by any party upon prior written notice. In addition, substantially all of our affiliated physicians have agreed not to compete within a specified geographic area for a certain period after termination of employment. The law governing non-compete agreements and other forms of restrictive covenants varies from state to state. Although we believe that the non-competition and other restrictive covenants of our affiliated physicians are reasonable in scope and duration and therefore enforceable under applicable state law, courts and arbitrators in some states are reluctant to strictly enforce non-compete agreements and restrictive covenants applicable to physicians. If a substantial number of our affiliated physicians leave our affiliated practices or our affiliated professional contractors are unable to enforce the non-competition covenants in the employment agreements, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We cannot predict whether a court or arbitration panel would enforce these covenants. 23 Table of Contents We may be subject to medical malpractice and other lawsuits not covered by insurance. Our business entails an inherent risk of claims of medical malpractice against our affiliated physicians and us. We may also be subject to other lawsuits which may involve large claims and significant defense costs. Although we currently maintain liability insurance coverage intended to cover professional liability and other claims, there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover liabilities arising out of claims asserted against us where the outcomes of such claims are unfavorable to us. In addition, this insurance coverage generally must be renewed annually and may not continue to be available to us in future years at acceptable costs and on favorable terms. With respect to professional liability insurance, we self-insure our liabilities to pay deductibles through a wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary. Liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage, including coverage for professional liability and other claims, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. See “Other Legal Proceedings” and “Professional and General Liability Coverage.” The reserves that we have established in respect of our professional liability losses are subject to inherent uncertainties and if a deficiency is determined this may lead to a reduction in our net earnings. We have established reserves for losses and related expenses, which represent estimates involving actuarial projections, at a given point in time, of our expectations of the ultimate resolution and administration of costs of losses incurred in respect of professional liability risks for the amount of risk retained by us. Insurance reserves are inherently subject to uncertainty. Our reserves are based on historical claims, demographic factors, industry trends, severity and exposure factors and other actuarial assumptions calculated by an independent actuary firm. The independent actuary firm will perform studies on projected ultimate losses at least annually. We use the actuarial estimates to establish reserves. Our reserves could be significantly affected should current and future occurrences differ from historical claim trends and expectations. While claims are monitored closely when estimating reserves, the complexity of the claims and wide range of potential outcomes often hampers timely adjustments to the assumptions used in these estimates. Actual losses and related expenses may deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our financial statements. If our estimated reserves are determined to be inadequate, we will be required to increase reserves at the time the deficiency is determined. We may write-off intangible assets, such as goodwill. Our intangible assets, which consist primarily of goodwill related to our acquisitions, are subject to annual impairment testing. Under current accounting standards, goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis and we may be subject to impairment losses as circumstances after an acquisition change. If we record an impairment loss related to our goodwill, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the year in which the impairment is recorded. We may not effectively manage our growth. We have experienced rapid growth in our business and number of our employees and affiliated physicians in recent years. Continued rapid growth may impair our ability to provide our services efficiently and to manage our employees adequately. While we are taking steps to manage our growth, our future results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to do so effectively. We may not be able to maintain effective and efficient information systems. Our operations are dependent on uninterrupted performance of our information systems. Failure to maintain reliable information systems or disruptions in our information systems could cause disruptions in our business operations, including errors and delays in billings and collections, difficulty satisfying requirements under hospital contracts, disputes with patients and payors, violations of patient privacy and confidentiality requirements and other regulatory requirements, increased administrative expenses and other adverse consequences, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Our quarterly results will likely fluctuate from period to period. We have historically experienced and expect to continue to experience quarterly fluctuations in net patient service revenue and net income. For example, we typically experience negative cash flow from operations in the first quarter of each year, principally as a result of bonus payments to affiliated physicians. In addition, a significant number of our employees and associated professional contractors (primarily affiliated physicians) exceed the level of taxable wages for social security during the first and second quarters. As a result, we incur a significantly higher payroll tax burden and our net income is lower during those quarters. Moreover, a lower number of calendar days are present in the first and second quarters of the year as compared to the remainder of the year. Because we provide services in the NICU on a 24-hour-a-day basis, 365 days a year, any reduction in service days will have a corresponding reduction in net patient service revenue. We also have significant fixed operating costs, including costs for our affiliated physicians, and as a result, are highly dependent on patient volume and capacity utilization of our affiliated physicians to sustain profitability. Quarterly results may also be impacted by the timing of acquisitions and any fluctuation in patient volume. As a result, our results of operations for any quarter are not indicative of results of operations for any future period or full year. The value of our common stock may fluctuate. There has been significant volatility in the market price of our common stock and securities of health care companies generally that we believe in many cases has been unrelated to operating performance. In addition, we believe that certain factors, such as legislative and regulatory developments, including announced regulatory investigations, quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated results of operations, lower revenues or earnings than those anticipated by securities analysts, and general economic and financial market conditions, could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. We may not be able to collect reimbursements for our services from third-party payors in a timely manner. A significant portion of our net patient service revenue is derived from reimbursements from various third-party payors, including government-sponsored health care plans, private insurance plans and managed care plans, for services provided by our affiliated professional contractors. We are responsible for submitting reimbursement requests to these payors and collecting the reimbursements, and assume the financial risks relating to uncollectible and delayed reimbursements. In the current health care environment, payors continue their efforts to control expenditures for health care, including proposals to revise coverage and reimbursement policies. Due to the nature of our business and our participation in government and private reimbursement programs, we are involved from time to time in inquiries, reviews, audits and investigations by governmental agencies and private payors of our business practices, including assessments of our compliance with coding, billing and documentation requirements. We may be required to repay these agencies or private payors if a finding is made that we were incorrectly reimbursed, or we may be subjected to pre-payment reviews, which can be time-consuming and result in non-payment or delayed payment for the services we provide. We may also experience difficulties in collecting reimbursements because third-party payors may seek to reduce or delay reimbursements to which we are entitled for services that our affiliated physicians have provided. If we are not reimbursed fully and in a timely manner for such services or there is a finding that we were incorrectly reimbursed, our revenues, cash flows and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Hospitals may terminate their agreements with us, our physicians may lose the ability to provide services in hospitals or administrative fees paid to us by hospitals may be reduced. Our net patient service revenue is derived primarily from fee-for-service billings for patient care provided within hospital units by our affiliated physicians and from administrative fees paid to us by hospitals. See “Relationships with Our Partners — Hospitals”. Our hospital partners may cancel or not renew their contracts with us or they may reduce or eliminate our administrative fees in the future. To the extent that our arrangements with our hospital partners are canceled, or are not renewed or replaced with other arrangements having at least as favorable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, to the 25 Table of Contents extent our affiliated physicians lose their privileges in hospitals or hospitals enter into arrangements with other physicians, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our industry is already competitive and could become more competitive. The health care industry is highly competitive and subject to continual changes in the methods by which services are provided and the manner in which health care providers are selected and compensated. Because our operations consist primarily of physician services provided within hospital-based units, primarily NICUs, we compete with other health care services companies and physician groups for contracts with hospitals to provide our services to patients. We also face competition from hospitals themselves to provide our services. Companies in other health care industry segments, some of which have greater financial and other resources than ours, may become competitors in providing neonatal, maternal-fetal and pediatric subspecialty care. We may not be able to continue to compete effectively in this industry, additional competitors may enter metropolitan areas where we operate, and this increased competition may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unfavorable changes or conditions could occur in the states where our operations are concentrated. A majority of our net patient service revenue in 2005 was generated by our operations in five states. In particular, Texas accounted for approximately 29% of our net patient service revenue in 2005. See “Geographic Coverage”. Adverse changes or conditions affecting these particular states, such as health care reforms, changes in laws and regulations, reduced Medicaid reimbursements and government investigations, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon our key management personnel for our future success. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued contributions of our key management personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer, Roger J. Medel, M.D., for the management of our business and implementation of our business strategy. The loss of Dr. Medel or other key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. Our currently outstanding preferred stock purchase rights could deter takeover attempts. We have adopted a preferred share purchase rights plan, under which each outstanding share of our common stock includes a preferred stock purchase right entitling the registered holder, subject to the terms of our rights agreement, to purchase from us a one-thousandth of a share of our series A junior participating preferred stock at an initial exercise price of $150. If a person or group of persons acquires, or announces a tender offer or exchange offer which if consummated would result in the acquisition or beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the outstanding shares of our common stock, each right will entitle its holder (other than the person or persons acquiring 15% or more of our common stock) to purchase $300 worth of our common stock for $150. Some provisions contained in our rights agreement may have the effect of discouraging a third-party from making an acquisition proposal for Pediatrix and may thereby inhibit a change in control. For example, such provisions may deter tender offers for our shares, which offers may be attractive to shareholders, or deter purchases of large blocks of common stock, thereby limiting the opportunity for shareholders to receive a premium for their shares over the then-prevailing market prices. Provisions of our articles and bylaws could deter takeover attempts. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock and to determine the powers, preferences and rights of these shares, without shareholder approval. This preferred stock could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to those of the holders of common stock. The issuance of preferred stock under some circumstances could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. In addition, provisions in our amended and restated bylaws, including those relating to calling shareholder meetings, taking action by written consent and other matters, could render it more difficult or discourage an attempt to obtain control of 26 Table of Contents Pediatrix through a proxy contest or consent solicitation. These provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for our shares of common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 