RISK FACTORS Certain of the statements below are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. See Forward-Looking Statements on page 31. The following discussion sets forth certain risks that the Company believes could cause its actual future results to differ materially from expected or historical results. However, the discussion below is not exhaustive, and other factors such as natural disasters, acts of terrorism and epidemics could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results. Economic conditions The Company’s profitability could be affected by general economic conditions as well as regional trends, especially given the Company’s historic concentration of student loan originations in New York and California. Factors that could significantly affect the demand for and net margins on student loans, as well as the cost to the Company of funding such loans, include the level and volatility of interest rates and inflation. Rising interest rates could reduce demand for student loans, as some prospective borrowers could defer attendance at certain eligible educational institutions or pursue programs at less costly institutions, and thus borrow less, or otherwise determine that the cost of borrowing for higher education is too great. During periods of economic weakness, particularly in the case of high unemployment or high inflation, the relative cost of higher education may increase materially. As a result, some prospective borrowers may defer pursuing higher education until economic conditions improve. Also, the ability of some borrowers to repay their loans on a timely basis may deteriorate, resulting in higher delinquencies and losses. In addition, the U.S. economy began to show signs of weakness in the fourth quarter of 2007. To the extent that these conditions continue or worsen, the Company may experience an increase in defaults and loan losses and, if the conditions persist for an extended period of time, the Company may exceed contractual maximum portfolio loss limits related to the insurance on its private education loan portfolio. Any of these conditions may be more prevalent in those particular regions of the United States that have been affected by natural disasters or regional economic downturns. If the regions affected were those in which a large segment of the Company’s loans had been originated or its borrowers reside, a disproportionate reduction in new loan originations could occur, accompanied by higher delinquencies and losses. The Company decreased its securitization volume during the third and fourth quarters of 2007 due to dislocation and illiquidity in the asset-backed securities and credit markets. To the extent that these market conditions continue, they may adversely impact the Company’s future securitization transactions and may reduce or possibly eliminate gains recognized on such transactions. In addition, such conditions may increase the cost of funds under the Omnibus Credit Agreement with CBNA, which is negotiated on a borrowing by borrowing basis. Market and credit risk The Company’s revenue is dependent upon the extent to which management can successfully manage market and credit risks. The Company’s credit risk exposure is partially mitigated by government guarantees, third-party insurers, and certain school risk-sharing agreements. The Company actively monitors the creditworthiness of its insurers, but in the event that a guarantor, insurer or risk-share school is unable to meet its contractual obligations under such arrangements, the Company’s financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, as the Company’s business to proprietary schools increases, the Company’s results could be adversely impacted to the extent these proprietary schools do not continue as going concerns or close individual campus locations. Due to recent regulatory changes and dislocation in the credit markets, several student lenders have announced that they are exiting the industry or discontinuing certain higher-risk segments of their business. This decrease in the availability of student loans may adversely impact the financial condition of certain schools with which the Company does business, particularly proprietary schools. 27 The Company’s credit risk exposure is also impacted by the size and performance of the uninsured private education loan portfolio that is not originated under a risk-sharing relationship and which has grown over recent years. As of December 31, 2007, the uninsured private education loan portfolio included $174 million of higher risk loans made to students attending proprietary schools. Most of these higher risk loans do not follow the Company’s traditional underwriting process. As the economy continues to contract, the Company’s results could be adversely impacted by net credit losses on this portfolio. The Company’s successful management of market risk is dependent upon its ability to identify properly and respond promptly to changes in interest rate conditions. The majority of the Company’s earnings is generated from the spread between the Company’s interest earning assets (based on the 90-day Commercial Paper rate, the prime rate, or the 91-day Treasury Bill rate) and its funding costs (based on LIBOR). Therefore, basis risk could have an effect on the Company's results of operations. The Company uses derivative agreements to help manage interest rate risk. The Company’s derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133, and consequently, the change in fair value of these derivative instruments is included in the Company's earnings. Changes in market assumptions regarding future interest rates could significantly impact the valuation of the Company's derivative instruments and, accordingly, impact the Company’s financial position and results of operations. The Company's interest rate risk management activities could expose the Company to losses if future events differ from certain of the Company’s assumptions about the future regulatory and credit environment. If the Company’s economic hedging activities are not appropriately monitored or executed, these activities may not effectively mitigate its interest rate sensitivity or have the desired impact on its results of operations or financial condition. The Company relies upon asset-backed securitizations as a significant funding source. The net cash flow the Company receives from securitized student loan assets generally represents the excess amounts, if any, generated by the underlying student loans over the amounts required to be paid to the noteholders, after deducting servicing costs and any other expenses. The Company's rights to these residual interests are subordinate to the noteholders’ interests and their value is highly sensitive to factors such as interest rate changes, prepayment speeds, default rates and regulatory changes. If the securitized loans fail to generate sufficient excess cash flows, the Company may not realize all of the recorded value of these interests. The Company has recently funded an increased proportion of its operations through loan securitization, although during the third and fourth quarters of 2007, the Company elected to decrease its securitization volume due to dislocation and illiquidity in the asset-backed securities and credit markets. The Company expects market conditions to remain challenging. Securitization volume in 2008, if any, will depend on market conditions and the Company's business requirements. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will recognize any gains on such securitizations. Significant reductions in, or the elimination of gains on loans securitized will significantly reduce the Company's net income. In early 2008, adverse market conditions carried over to the market for student loan auction-rate notes. The Company’s outstanding securitizations include no auction-rate notes, but adversity in that market may nevertheless further impede the Company’s ability to securitize on favorable terms. The Company’s earnings are increasingly dependent upon the accuracy of its critical accounting estimates, particularly those relating to loan securitizations and the allowance for loan losses. If future behavior deviates from management’s assumptions, adverse adjustments of certain related balance sheet and/or income statement line items could result. 28 Future volume of student loans The Company originates loans to borrowers in all 50 states. The loan origination volume generated by individual schools is primarily dependent on whether the Company appears on the school’s list of lenders, as well as the number of students at that school that need financial aid. The Company may be adversely impacted by borrowers’ or schools’ decisions to use competing lenders, each school’s option to choose the Federal Direct Lending Program instead of choosing to participate in the FFEL Program, or a school’s decision to begin making student loans itself. The Company may acquire student loans through purchase agreements with institutions, but each of these agreements has a termination date and there are no assurances that these institutions will renew or extend these forward purchase agreements on terms that are favorable to the Company if at all. Competition The market is comprised of numerous eligible lenders in the student loan industry, including Sallie Mae, which originates more FFEL Program Loans than does the Company. The Company also competes with the Federal Direct Lending Program, in which the Company is not eligible to participate. The Company’s ability to increase its loan originations is largely dependent upon its ability to offer competitively priced, desirable loan products as well as its ability to communicate effectively to prospective borrowers and schools about these products. The Company plans to continue to offer competitively priced products by managing its expenses through economies of scale, which reduce its origination and servicing costs. The Company also plans to expand its electronic communications with prospective borrowers and those that affect their decision making. An inability to achieve these goals could adversely affect the Company’s competitive position in the marketplace and its ability to increase the volume of its loan originations. Operational risk The majority of the Company’s operating risks relate to servicing defects in the Company’s loan portfolio that could potentially result in losses. In addition, FFEL Program loans that are not originated or serviced in accordance with Department regulations risk loss of guarantee or interest penalties. Private education loans that are not originated or serviced in accordance with provisions set forth in the respective agreements with private insurers risk cancellation of insurance coverage. In an effort to help manage operating and credit risks, the Company conducts compliance and process reviews of both the Company’s internal operations and external loan servicers. The Company is exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people or systems, or from external events. It includes reputational and franchise risks associated with the Company’s business practices or market conduct. It also includes the risk of failing to comply with applicable laws, regulations, regulatory administrative actions or the Company’s internal policies. Given the high volume of transactions at the Company, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and rectified. In addition, the Company’s necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process its transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical system flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. The Company may also be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (for example, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, epidemics, computer viruses, and electrical/ telecommunications outages), which may give rise to losses in service to borrowers and/or monetary loss to the Company. All of these risks are also applicable where the Company relies on outside vendors to provide services to it and its borrowers. 29 U.S. fiscal policies The Company’s businesses and earnings are affected by the fiscal policies adopted by regulatory authorities of the United States. For example, policies of the Federal Reserve Board directly influence the rate of interest paid by commercial banks, including CBNA, the Company’s primary funding source, on its interest-bearing deposits. This may affect the Company’s cost of borrowing from CBNA, and also may affect the value of financial instruments, including securitization retained interests and assets held for sale by the Company. In addition, such changes in fiscal policy may adversely affect the ability of the Company’s borrowers to repay their loans on a timely basis and the ability of prospective borrowers to qualify for loans. Reputation and legal risk Various issues may give rise to legal risk and cause harm to the Company and its business prospects. These issues include appropriately dealing with potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, privacy laws and information security policies. Failure to address these issues appropriately could also give rise to additional legal risk to the Company, which could give rise to litigation claims asserted against the Company, or subject the Company to regulatory enforcement actions, fines and penalties. Regulatory considerations As a leading originator and owner of student loans insured under the Higher Education Act, the Company’s financial results and business are largely affected by the provisions of the Higher Education Act. Amendments to the Higher Education Act may be implemented from time to time. New legislation could impact the Company’s products, its industry or otherwise affect its operations and the environment in which it operates in substantial and unpredictable ways. In recent years, many changes to the Higher Education Act have been implemented, for example, that adversely impact the operating environment of the Company and its financial results. Certain amendments to the Higher Education Act governing the FFEL Program have reduced the interest spread earned by holders of FFEL Program guaranteed student loans. The Company is also subject to rules and regulations of the agencies that act as guarantors of the student loans, known as guaranty agencies. In addition, the Company is subject to certain federal and state banking laws, regulations, and examinations, as well as federal and state consumer protection laws and lending regulations, including, specifically with respect to the Company's CitiAssist loan portfolio, certain state usury laws and related regulations, and many other lending laws. These laws and regulations impose substantial requirements upon lenders and servicers involved in consumer finance. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in liability to borrowers, the imposition of civil penalties, and potential class action lawsuits. It is difficult for the Company to plan for or mitigate the effects of such legislative or regulatory changes. The Deficit Reduction Act, which modified certain provisions of the Higher Education Act, was signed by President Bush in February 2006. The Deficit Reduction Act imposed a 1% risk-sharing provision on default claims submitted on loans serviced by Exceptional Performers, such as the Company. This risk-sharing provision resulted in increases to the Company’s allowance for loan losses and decreases in the fair value of its residual interests in securitized loans. The CCRA Act was signed into law on September 27, 2007 with many of its provisions effective October 1, 2007. Some of the provisions of this new law had an adverse impact on the financial condition and results of operations of the Company by decreasing net interest income and fair value of residual interests and increasing the provision for loan losses. The CCRA Act will also have a prospective adverse impact on the Company’s net interest margin, provision for loan losses and gains on loans securitized. For further information on the impact of the CCRA Act, see Regulatory Impacts on page 16. In addition, future regulatory changes cannot be predicted and could have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. 30 Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements contained in this report that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by the words or phrases “believe”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “intend”, “estimate”, “may increase”, “may result in”, and similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as “will”, “should”, “would” and “could”. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, which could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those the Company expects, including, but not limited to: the effects of legislative changes, particularly those relating to re-authorization of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, that affect the demand for and interest rates on student loans, especially the establishment of certain fixed rates of interest on Stafford Loans and FFEL Program loans; loan origination costs; the availability and amount of loan subsidies, and any effect on the Company’s interest rate spreads; the cost of education; the availability of alternative financing options to students and their parents, including competitive products offered by other lenders; the effects of changes in accounting standards; actual credit losses, loan collection strategies and their impact on delinquency rates, and the adequacy of loan loss reserves; fluctuations in interest rates and between various interest rate indices, particularly the manner in which short-term rates affect the Company’s funding costs, consolidation rates, the rates at which interest accrues on its loan portfolio and the demand for student loans; changes in prepayment rates on student loans from anticipated rates and in the quality and profitability of those loans that move into repayment status, as well as actual experience with the repayment cycle of the loan portfolio; the Company’s and other servicers’ ability to continue to service the loan portfolio in accordance with their contractual obligations; the volume of loan consolidations; the adequacy of the Company’s capital expenditures and of funds allocated for future capital expenditures; the success of its marketing efforts, especially its electronic marketing efforts; the Company’s ability to acquire or originate loans in the amounts anticipated and with interest rates that generate sufficient yields and margins; the performance of the Company’s loan portfolio servicers, insurers and risk-sharers; the Company’s ability to utilize alternative sources of funding, including its ability to continue to securitize loans; as well as general economic conditions, including the performance of financial markets. 31 Glossary Listed below are definitions of key terms that are used throughout this Annual Report and Form 10-K. Borrower Benefits — Borrower benefits are incentives in the form of interest rate reductions to borrowers for timely payment or automated clearing house (ACH) payment methods as well as principal reductions that may be granted once a loan enters into repayment. College Cost Reduction and Access Act (CCRA Act) — The College Cost Reduction and Access Act was signed into law on September 27, 2007. This Act eliminated the EP program, thereby decreasing the Company’s reimbursement rates on FFEL Program loans. Under the CCRA Act, the Company will receive a 97% or 98% reimbursement rate for substantially all claims filed after October 1, 2007, depending on the origination date of the loan. The provisions of CCRA Act also include further reduction in the reimbursement rate to 95% for new loans disbursed on or after October 1, 2012 as well as reductions in special allowance payments of 55 basis points for Stafford and Consolidation Loans and 85 basis points for PLUS Loans. CitiAssist Loans — CitiAssist Loans are loans that are originated through an alternative private loan program and do not carry federal government guarantees. These loans are the Company’s proprietary loan product, offered as a means to finance higher education costs that exceed borrowers’ available financial resources, including any resources available through the FFEL Program. In order to comply with certain legal and regulatory requirements, CitiAssist Loans are originated by Citibank, N.A. (CBNA) through an intercompany agreement. Following full disbursement, the Company purchases all qualified CitiAssist Loans from CBNA. Consolidation Loans — Consolidation Loans are loans that allow eligible borrowers to combine multiple federally guaranteed loans, including those of both the FFEL and Federal Direct Student Loan Programs, into one single aggregate guaranteed loan. A borrower may request the inclusion of government-guaranteed loans held by other student loan lenders. When that occurs, the underlying loans chosen for consolidation that are not already in the Company’s portfolio are purchased at face value from the other lenders. The repayment rate on a Consolidation Loan is a fixed rate that represents the weighted average interest rate of the loans retired. The maximum term of a Consolidation Loan is 30 years. Deficit Reduction Act — In February 2006, the Deficit Reduction Act, P.L. 109-171, was signed into law, marking Congress’ completion of the federal fiscal year 2006 budget reconciliation process. Title VIII-A of the Deficit Reduction Act addresses a number of budget-related higher education issues that modify certain provisions of the Higher Education Act. For information on the impact of the Deficit Reduction Act, see Regulatory Impacts on page 16. Department — The Department as referred to in the 2007 Annual Report and Form 10-K, is the U.S. Department of Education. Exceptional Performer (EP) Designation — The Exceptional Performer designation was granted to those FFEL Program loan servicers that meet the performance standards established by the Department. The Company and several of its servicers obtained Exceptional Performer status effective in 2004. Under previous Department rules, as long as Exceptional Performer eligibility was maintained, the Company received 100% reimbursement on all eligible FFEL Program default claims that were submitted for reimbursement by the Company or its eligible third-party servicers. Under the Deficit Reduction Act, the reimbursement rate on defaulted loans submitted for reimbursement on or after July 1, 2006 was reduced to 99%. The CCRA Act eliminated the Exceptional Performer Program as of October 1, 2007, substantially reducing all default claim reimbursements to between 97% and 98%. FFEL Program — The FFEL Program is the Federal Family Education Loan Program, administered by the Department of Education. 32 FFEL Program Subsidized and Unsubsidized Stafford and PLUS Loans — Subsidized and unsubsidized Federal Stafford and PLUS Loans are those loans that are guaranteed against loss under the FFEL Program in the event of borrower default, death, disability, bankruptcy or closed school. Subsidized Federal Stafford Loans are those loans generally made to students who pass certain need criteria. Unsubsidized Federal Stafford Loans are designed for students who do not qualify for subsidized Federal Stafford Loans due to parental and/or student income and assets in excess of permitted amounts or whose need exceeds the basic Stafford limit. Federal PLUS Loans are made to parents of dependent students and to graduate and professional students. Floor Income — The Company determines floor income to be the amount of additional interest income generated when net interest margin exceeds the minimum expected spreads. Floor income, which is a component of net interest income, is defined as the difference between the income earned at the borrower payment rate (which is generally reset each July 1st) less the Department-stipulated asset spread and the funding cost of the asset. Floor income has been reduced under certain provisions of the Deficit Reduction Act which became effective April 1, 2006. These provisions require the rebate of almost all floor income to the Department from loans for which the first disbursement was made on or after April 1, 2006. Floor income, as determined by the Company, is a financial measure that is not defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Higher Education Act — The Higher Education Act as referred to in the 2007 Annual Report and Form 10-K, is the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended. Managed Student Loan Assets — Managed Student loan assets represent the portfolio of student loans owned by the Company and reported on its balance sheet, as well as those loans that are serviced on behalf of securitization trusts and certain other lenders. Private Education Loans — Private education loans primarily consist of CitiAssist Loans (as described above) and private consolidation loans. Qualifying Special Purpose Entities (QSPE) — A qualifying special purpose entity is a trust or other entity that meets the QSPE qualifications of SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities, as amended (SFAS 140). SFAS 140 places significant restrictions on the permitted activities of a QSPE, which is a passive entity that cannot engage in active decision making. Residual Interests — Residual interests represent an entity’s right to receive cash flows from the loans it securitizes and sells to QSPEs that are in excess of amounts needed to pay servicing, derivative costs (if any), other fees, and the principal and interest on the notes backed by the loans. Retained Interest — Retained interest is the term used to identify the securitization asset that is formed by the combination of residual interests and servicing assets. Servicing Assets — Servicing assets represent the value of the cash flows that result from contracts to service financial assets under which the estimated future revenues from the contractually specified servicing fees are expected to exceed adequate compensation associated with servicing assets. The servicing asset is recognized only when it is contractually separated from the underlying assets by the sale or securitization of the asset with servicing retained. 33 Special Allowance Payment (SAP) — Special allowance payments are those interest payments made by the federal government when the stated interest rate on the FFEL Program loans provides less than prescribed rates of return, as defined by the Higher Education Act. When that occurs, the federal government makes a SAP, which increases the lender’s loan yield by a legally specified markup over a base rate tied to either the 90-day Commercial Paper rate or the 91-day Treasury Bill auction yield, depending on the origination date. When the stated interest rate on the FFEL Program loans provides more than prescribed rates of return, that excess return must be returned to the federal government. Most FFEL Program loans qualify for the federal government’s SAP. 34 Corporate Governance and Controls The Company has a Code of Conduct that expresses the values that drive employee behavior and maintains the Company’s commitment to the highest standards of conduct. In addition, the Company adopted a Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals which applies to all finance, accounting, treasury, tax and investor relations professionals and which supplements the companywide Code of Conduct. Both the Code of Conduct and the Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals can be found on the Company’s website at www.studentloan.com by clicking on the “Investors” link and then clicking on the “Board and Management” link. The Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charter for both the Audit Committee and Compensation Committee are available free of charge on the website or by writing to The Student Loan Corporation, Investor Relations, 750 Washington Boulevard, Stamford, CT 06901. Controls and Procedures Disclosure The Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is accumulated and communicated to management, including the chief executive officer and chief financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. The Company has established a Disclosure Committee which has responsibility for ensuring that there is an adequate and effective process for establishing, maintaining, and evaluating disclosure controls and procedures for the Company in connection with its external disclosures. The Company's management, with the participation of the Company’s chief executive officer and chief financial officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act)) as of December 31, 2007. Based on that evaluation, the Company’s chief executive officer and chief financial officer have concluded that, at that date, the Company's disclosure controls and procedures were effective. Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There have not been any changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the quarter ended December 31, 2007 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. 35 MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING The management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision of the Company’s principal executive and principal financial officers, and effected by the Company’s board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. This process includes those policies and procedures that: · Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; · Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with proper authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and · Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk (i) that controls may become inadequate because of changes in condition, or (ii) that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. The Company’s management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. In making this assessment, the Company’s management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework. Based on their assessment, management believes that, as of December 31, 2007, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria. The effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting has been audited by KPMG LLP, the Company's independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report on page 37, which expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. 36 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM – INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING The Board of Directors and Stockholders The Student Loan Corporation: We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of The Student Loan Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. In our opinion, The Student Loan Corporation and subsidiaries maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2007, and our report dated February 26, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. KPMG LLP New York, New York February 26, 2008 37 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM – CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Board of Directors and Stockholders The Student Loan Corporation: We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The Student Loan Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2007. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of The Student Loan Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2007, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, in 2007 the Company changed its methods of accounting for fair value measurements, the fair value option for financial assets and financial liabilities, and uncertainty in income taxes, and in 2006 the Company changed its methods of accounting for certain hybrid financial instruments and servicing of financial assets. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated February 26, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. KPMG LLP New York, New York February 26, 2008 38 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Student Loan Corporation and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME Years ended December 31 (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 2007 2006 2005 Net Interest Income Interest income $ 1,563,811 $ 1,624,563 $ 1,300,849 Interest expense to principal stockholder (Notes 4, 5, 9 and 12) (1,175,164 ) (1,213,033 ) (807,808 ) Net interest income 388,647 411,530 493,041 Provision for loan losses (Note 2) (59,920 ) (26,170 ) (13,157 ) Net interest income after provision for loan losses 328,727 385,360 479,884 Other Income Gains on loans securitized (Note 14) 70,814 189,017 129,578 Gains on loans sold 41,044 26,813 23,137 Fee and other income (Note 7) 36,301 28,861 3,106 Total other income 148,159 244,691 155,821 Operating Expenses Salaries and employee benefits (Notes 9 and 10) 61,628 56,930 47,717 Other expenses (Notes 8 and 9) 117,890 108,829 101,238 Total operating expenses 179,518 165,759 148,955 Income before income taxes and extraordinary item 297,368 464,292 486,750 Provision for income taxes (Note 11) 114,677 177,480 183,255 Income before extraordinary item 182,691 286,812 303,495 Gain on extinguishment of trust, net of taxes of $3,448 for the year ended December 31, 2005 – – 5,465 Net income $ 182,691 $ 286,812 $ 308,960 Basic earnings per common share (Note 1) Income before extraordinary item $ 9.13 $ 14.34 $ 15.18 Extraordinary item – – 0.27 Net income $ 9.13 $ 14.34 $ 15.45 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 39 The Student Loan Corporation and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS December 31 (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 2007 2006 Assets Federally insured student loans (Note 2) $ 16,244,273 $ 17,184,133 Private education loans (Note 2) 4,696,337 3,072,394 Deferred origination and premium costs (Note 2) 668,082 632,872 Allowance for loan losses (Note 2) (42,115 ) (14,197 ) Student loans, net 21,566,577 20,875,202 Other loans and lines of credit (Note 2) 87,437 76,117 Loans held for sale (Note 2) 337,790 323,041 Cash 25 6,570 Residual interests in securitized loans (Note 14) 633,074 546,422 Other assets (Note 3) 1,154,956 809,251 Total Assets $ 23,779,859 $ 22,636,603 Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity Liabilities Short-term borrowings payable to principal stockholder (Note 4) $ 13,373,000 $ 11,136,800 Long-term borrowings payable to principal stockholder (Note 5) 8,100,000 9,200,000 Deferred income taxes (Note 11) 287,462 287,641 Other liabilities (Note 6) 395,174 458,861 Total liabilities 22,155,636 21,083,302 Stockholders’ Equity Preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share; authorized 10,000,000 shares; no shares issued or outstanding – – Common stock, par value $0.01 per share; authorized 50,000,000 shares; 20,000,000 shares issued and outstanding 200 200 Additional paid-in capital 141,355 141,324 Retained earnings 1,482,668 1,410,968 Accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources – 809 Total stockholders’ equity 1,624,223 1,553,301 Total Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity $ 23,779,859 $ 22,636,603 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 40 The Student Loan Corporation and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Years ended December 31 (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 2007 2006 2005 COMMON STOCK AND ADDITIONAL PAID-IN CAPITAL Balance, beginning of period $ 141,524 $ 139,583 $ 139,376 Capital contributions and other changes 31 1,941 207 Balance, end of period $ 141,555 $ 141,524 $ 139,583 RETAINED EARNINGS Balance, beginning of period $ 1,410,968 $ 1,222,262 $ 999,702 Net income 182,691 286,812 308,960 Cumulative effect of adoption of accounting standard, net of taxes of $506 and $941 in 2007 and 2006, respectively 809 1,494 – Common dividends declared, $5.59 per common share in 2007; $4.98 per common share in 2006; $4.32 per common share in 2005 (111,800 ) (99,600 ) (86,400 ) Balance, end of period $ 1,482,668 $ 1,410,968 $ 1,222,262 ACCUMULATED OTHER CHANGES IN EQUITY FROM NONOWNER SOURCES Balance, beginning of period $ 809 $ – $ 7,829 Net change in unrealized gains on investment securities, net of taxes of $(506) in 2007, $506 in 2006 and $(5,017) in 2005 (Note 1) (809 ) 809 (7,829 ) Balance, end of period $ – $ 809 $ – TOTAL STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY $ 1,624,223 $ 1,553,301 $ 1,361,845 SUMMARY OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FROM NONOWNER SOURCES Net income $ 182,691 $ 286,812 $ 308,960 Changes in equity from nonowner sources, net of taxes – 809 (7,829 ) Total changes in equity from nonowner sources $ 182,691 $ 287,621 $ 301,131 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 41 The Student Loan Corporation and Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS Years ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 2005 Cash flows from operating activities: Net income $ 182,691 $ 286,812 $ 308,960 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash from operating activities: Depreciation and amortization of equipment and computer software 14,429 13,658 13,978 Amortization of deferred loan origination and purchase costs 109,728 145,792 133,416 Amortization of servicing asset – – 6,958 Accreted interest on residual interests (59,177 ) (24,352 ) (8,113 ) Provision for loan losses 59,920 26,170 13,157 Deferred tax (benefit)/expense (179 ) (3,649 ) 108,779 Gains on loans sold and securitized (111,858 ) (215,830 ) (152,715 ) (Gain)/loss on valuation of residual interests (2,733 ) 15,391 19,212 Gain on extinguishment of the 2002 Trust – – (8,913 ) Loss on valuation of servicing assets 15,668 13,287 – Change in loans originated for resale (292,949 ) (888,712 ) (86,686 ) Cash expenditures on loan origination and purchase premium costs (5,330 ) (13,906 ) (2,013 ) Proceeds from loans sold and securitized 232,305 876,263 40,411 Cash received on residual interests classified as trading assets 65,388 17,095 – Change in accrued interest receivable (187,984 ) (52,008 ) (141,061 ) Change in other assets (135,703 ) (12,325 ) (2,294 ) Change in other liabilities (63,657 ) 105,893 26,303 Net cash (used in)/provided by operating activities (179,441 ) 289,579 269,379 Cash flows from investing activities: Change in loans (5,088,896 ) (3,903,506 ) (4,579,574 ) Redemption of 2002 Trust beneficial interests, net of expenses – – (373,352 ) Cash expenditures on loan origination and purchase premium costs (230,655 ) (257,919 ) (337,651 ) Proceeds from loans sold and securitized 4,474,616 7,622,265 4,919,039 Cash received on residual interests classified as available-for-sale assets – 7,749 6,050 Capital expenditures on equipment and computer software (6,569 ) (8,850 ) (12,067 ) Net cash (used in)/provided by investing activities (851,504 ) 3,459,739 (377,555 ) Cash flows from financing activities: Net change in borrowings with original maturities of one year or less (1,963,800 ) (144,300 ) (4,154,900 ) Proceeds from borrowings with original terms of one year or more 7,100,000 – 13,900,000 Repayments of borrowings with original terms of one year or more (4,000,000 ) (3,500,000 ) (9,550,000 ) Dividends paid to stockholders (111,800 ) (99,600 ) (86,400 ) Net cash provided by/(used in) financing activities 1,024,400 (3,743,900 ) 108,700 Net (decrease)/increase in cash (6,545 ) 5,418 524 Cash – beginning of period 6,570 1,152 628 Cash – end of period $ 25 $ 6,570 $ 1,152 Supplemental disclosure Cash paid for: Interest $ 1,168,513 $ 1,220,339 $ 743,750 Income taxes, net $ 176,049 $ 125,237 $ 122,260 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 42 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Background The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements of the Student Loan Corporation (the Company), a Delaware corporation, include the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries, Educational Loan Center, Inc. and SLC Student Loan Receivables I, Inc. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. The Company, through a trust agreement with Citibank, N.A. (CBNA), is an originator, manager and servicer of student loans, including loans made in accordance with federally sponsored guaranteed student loan programs as well as private education loans. CBNA, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Citigroup Inc. (Citigroup), is the largest shareholder of the Company, owning 80% of the Company’s outstanding common stock. Basis of Presentation The Company’s accounting policies are in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The Company’s operations are a single segment for financial reporting purposes, as the Company’s only operations consist of originating, managing and servicing student loans. Certain amounts in the prior years’ financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation. Such reclassification had no effect on the results of operations as previously reported. Use of Estimates The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Revenue Recognition Revenues, which include net interest income, fees and gains on loans sold and securitized, if any, are recognized as they are earned. Interest income includes special allowance payments made by the federal government as prescribed under the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (the Higher Education Act), and is net of amortization of premiums and origination costs. The Company accounts for premiums and origination costs in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 91, Accounting for Nonrefundable Fees and Costs Associated with Originating or Acquiring Loans and Initial Direct Costs of Leases (SFAS 91). Deferred premiums and origination costs on the Company’s loan portfolio are amortized using the interest method. Loans The Company has a portfolio of student loans originated under the Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) Program authorized by the U.S. Department of Education (the Department) under the Higher Education Act, which are insured by guaranty agencies (guarantors). Student loan interest, inclusive of special allowance payments, if any, is recognized as it is earned. 43 The Company also has a portfolio of private education loans. Such loans can be insured against loss by private insurers or covered under other risk-sharing agreements with creditworthy schools. A portion of the loans, including many high risk loans, are neither insured nor are covered under risk-sharing agreements. The Company is exposed to 100% of loss on such loans. Federally mandated loan origination or lender fees paid on FFEL Program loans, as well as other qualifying loan origination costs and premiums on all loans, are deferred and recognized as yield adjustments to interest income. Allowance for Loan Losses The Company has an allowance for loan losses that provides a reserve for estimated losses on: (1) the portion of the FFEL Program loan portfolio that is subject to the risk-sharing provisions of the Higher Education Act and (2) the private education loan portfolio, after considering the credit risk insurance coverage obtained from third parties and the impact of any risk-sharing agreements with certain schools. Amounts of estimated potential future losses inherent in the Company’s portfolio are expensed currently and increase the provision for loan losses. Actual losses are charged against the reserve as they occur. The size of the allowance is based on the amount of estimated losses inherent in the Company’s FFEL Program and private education loan portfolios. Estimated losses, which are based on historical delinquency and credit loss experience adjusted for projected market conditions, are determined after considering the current aging of the portfolio. The Company immediately ceases to accrue interest income on a student loan when one of the following events occurs: (1) a FFEL Program loan loses its guarantee, (2) an insured private education loan reaches 150 days of delinquency or (3) an uninsured private education loan reaches 90 days of delinquency. Accrual of interest is resumed if the loan guarantee is reinstated. Interest received on non-accruing loans are recorded directly into interest income. The Company immediately writes off the loan balance corresponding to the unguaranteed portion of FFEL Program Loans at 270 days of delinquency and the uninsured portion of private education loans at 120 days of delinquency. Also, the Company writes off the loan balances for loans in which the guarantee claim is not received for FFEL Program and private education loans after 450 days and 240 days, respectively. When loans or portions of loans are written off, the Company reduces interest income by the amounts of accrued, uncollected interest. Transfer of Student Loans through Sale or Securitization Whole Loan Sales The Company accounts for its whole loan sales in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities, a replacement of FASB Statement No. 125, as amended (SFAS 140). In order for a transfer of financial assets to be considered a sale, the assets transferred by the Company must have been isolated from the seller, even in bankruptcy or other receivership, and the purchaser must have the right to sell the assets transferred. In addition, the sale accounting rules of SFAS 140 require the Company to relinquish effective control over the loans sold as of the sale date. Loans Securitized There are two key accounting determinations that must be made relating to securitizations. First, a determination must be made as to whether the transfer is considered a sale in accordance with SFAS 140. If it is a sale, the transferred assets are removed from the Company's consolidated balance sheet with a gain or loss recognized. Second, determination must be made as to whether the securitization entity is sufficiently independent. If so, the entity is not included in the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. For each securitization entity, the Company makes a determination of whether the entity should be considered a subsidiary of the Company and be included in its Consolidated Financial Statements or whether the entity is sufficiently independent and need not be consolidated. If the securitization entity's activities are sufficiently restricted to meet accounting requirements to be a qualifying special purpose entity (QSPE), the securitization entity is not consolidated by the seller of the transferred assets. 44 Interests in the securitized loans are retained in the form of subordinated residual interests (i.e., interest-only strips) and servicing rights. Prior to January 1, 2007, the Company accounted for its residual interest from the 2004 securitization as available-for-sale securities, with unrealized gains and losses reported in Accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources. Effective January 1, 2007, the Company early-adopted SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (SFAS 159). In accordance with SFAS 159, the Company elected to measure its residual interest from the 2004 securitization at fair value. Electing the fair value option for this residual interest resulted in consistent treatment for all of the Company’s residual interests and related derivatives. In order to convert to the fair value method, effective January 1, 2007, the Company reclassified the unrealized gain on the residual interest from the 2004 securitization from Accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources to Retained earnings. Beginning with the first quarter of 2007, changes in fair value of the 2004 residual interest are reported in Fee and other income. The residual interests from its other securitizations continue to be accounted for as trading securities, with unrealized gains and losses reported in Fee and other income. See Note 2 for more information on SFAS 159. The Company’s servicing assets are reported at fair value, in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 156, Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets – an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140 (SFAS 156), and are included in Other assets on its Consolidated Financial Statements. Unrealized gains and losses associated with servicing asset valuation changes are reported in Fee and other income. Gains are recognized at the time of securitization and are reported in Gains on loans securitized. Securitization gains depend in part on the previous carrying amount of the loans involved in the transfer and are allocated between the loans sold and the residual interests and servicing assets, collectively, the retained interests, based on their relative fair values at the date of sale. The Company estimates the fair value of these retained interests using an income approach by determining the present value of expected future cash flows using modeling techniques that incorporate management's best estimates of key assumptions, including, but not limited to prepayment speeds, credit losses, borrower benefits and discount rates. Additional information on the Company's securitization activities may be found in Note 14. Loans Held for Sale Loans held for sale are loans that the Company plans to include in a future securitization or sale. Management continually assesses its future securitization and loan sale plans and transfers sufficient amounts of loans to the held for sale portfolio to meet the Company’s anticipated loan sale requirements in the near term. These loans are recorded at the lower of cost, consisting of principal and deferred costs, or market value, which is based on sales of similar assets. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, market value exceeded cost. Accordingly, no valuation allowance was necessary. Derivatives The Company manages its exposure to interest rate changes through the use of derivative financial products including swaps and written options. These derivatives are carried at fair value in Other assets or Other liabilities in the Company’s consolidated balance sheet with changes in fair value recorded currently in Fee and other income. 45 Internally Developed Software Certain direct costs associated with internally developed software are capitalized. The Company capitalizes development costs for internal use software in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Position 98-1, Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use. These costs are included in Other assets and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the useful life not to exceed ten years. Deferral of costs starts after the preliminary project stage is completed and ends when the project is substantially complete and ready for its intended use. Capitalized internally developed software costs are periodically reviewed for impairment. Capitalized costs of projects deemed to be obsolete or abandoned are written off to operating expense. Employee Benefits Expense The Company’s employee benefits are provided under programs administered and maintained by Citigroup for Citigroup’s and the Company’s employees. Employee benefits expense includes prior and current service costs of pension and other postretirement benefit plans, which are accrued on a current basis based on a Citigroup allocation that is applied to employee salary costs. Any pension obligation pertaining to these plans is a liability of Citigroup. Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per common share is computed by dividing income applicable to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company had no securities or other contracts to issue Company common stock that could result in dilution. Income Taxes The Company is included in the consolidated federal income tax return of Citigroup, and is included in certain combined or unitary state/local income or franchise tax returns of Citigroup or its subsidiaries. While the Company is included in these consolidated, combined or unitary returns, it has agreed to pay to CBNA an amount equal to the federal, state and local taxes the Company would have paid had it filed its returns on a separate company basis and the amount, if any, by which the tax liability of any unitary group (of which any Citigroup affiliate other than the Company is a member) is adjusted by virtue of the inclusion of the Company’s activity in the group’s unitary return. CBNA has agreed to pay the Company an amount equal to the tax benefit of the actual tax loss of the Company as if the Company filed a separate return and the amount, if any, by which the tax liability of any unitary group (of which any Citigroup affiliate other than the Company is a member) is adjusted by virtue of the inclusion of the Company’s activity in the group’s unitary return. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recorded for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements or tax returns based upon enacted tax laws and rates. Deferred tax assets are recognized subject to management’s judgment that realization is more likely than not. Since all of the Company’s deferred tax assets are expected to be realized, the Company does not maintain a valuation allowance for these assets, as per SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (SFAS 109). Accounting Changes Fair Value Measurements As of January 1, 2007, the Company elected to early-adopt SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS 157). SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a consistent framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosure requirements about fair value measurements. The Company’s early adoption of SFAS 157 had no material impact on its results of operations or financial condition. 46 Fair Value Option As of January 1, 2007, the Company elected to early-adopt SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (SFAS 159). Under this Standard, the Company may elect to report financial instruments and certain other items at fair value on a contract-by-contract basis with changes in fair value reported in earnings. This election is generally made when the Company first recognizes a financial asset or liability and is irrevocable. SFAS 159 provides an opportunity to mitigate volatility in reported earnings that was caused by measuring hedged assets and liabilities that were previously required to use an accounting method other than fair value, while the related economic hedges were reported at fair value. Upon adoption, the Company elected to account for its residual interest from the 2004 securitization, which was classified as an available-for-sale security, at fair value. As a result, the Company reclassified $0.8 million in unrealized gains from Accumulated other changes in equity from nonowner sources to Retained earnings. Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (FIN 48), which sets out a framework for preparers to use to determine the appropriate level of tax reserves to maintain for uncertain tax positions. This interpretation of SFAS 109 uses a two-step approach wherein a tax benefit is recognized if a position is more-likely-than-not to be sustained. The amount of the benefit is then measured to be the highest tax benefit which is greater than fifty percent likely to be realized. FIN 48 also sets out disclosure requirements to enhance transparency of an entity's tax reserves. The Company adopted FIN 48 as of January 1, 2007. The Company’s adoption of FIN 48 on January 1, 2007 did not have a material impact on its results of operations or financial condition. The Company has no material unrecognized tax benefits. The Company’s policy is to classify interest and penalties as income tax expense. The Company has not recognized any material amounts of interest or penalties in the Consolidated Financial Statements for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. The following are the major tax jurisdictions in which the Company operates and the earliest tax year subject to examination: Jurisdiction Tax year United States 2003 New York 2005 Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets On January 1, 2006, the Company elected to early-adopt SFAS No. 156, Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets, an Amendment to SFAS No. 140 (SFAS 156). This pronouncement permits an election to remeasure servicing rights at fair value, with the changes in the fair value being recorded in current earnings. Upon adoption, the Company chose the fair value measurement method for recording its servicing assets and increased its beginning of the period retained earnings by a $1.5 million after tax cumulative effect adjustment to reflect its student loan servicing asset at fair value at January 1, 2006. 47 Future Application of Accounting Standards Asset Transfers and Securitization Accounting The FASB is currently working on amendments to the existing accounting standards governing asset transfers and fair value measurements in business combinations and impairment tests. Upon completion of these standards, the Company will need to reevaluate its accounting and disclosures. Due to the ongoing deliberations of the standard setters, the Company is unable to accurately determine the effect of future amendments or proposals at this time. 2. STUDENT LOANS The Company’s portfolio of student loans consists primarily of loans originated under government guaranteed loan programs, principally the FFEL Program. The Company owns, holds and manages the following types of FFEL Program loans: subsidized Federal Stafford, unsubsidized Federal Stafford, Federal PLUS and Federal Consolidation Loans. In addition, the Company’s government-guaranteed portfolio includes Federal Supplemental Loans for Students (SLS Loans) and Health Education Assistance Loans (HEAL Loans). When the statutory interest rates on Federal Consolidation Loans including substantially all FFEL Program loans provide less than prescribed rates of return, the Company is paid by the federal government as defined by the Higher Education Act. The federal government pays a special allowance payment (SAP), which increases the Company’s loan yield over a base rate tied to either the 90-day Commercial Paper rate or the 91-day Treasury Bill auction yield, depending on the loan origination date. In addition, the federal government generally pays the stated interest rate on subsidized Federal Stafford Loans while the borrower is in school, grace or deferment. The Company’s loan portfolio grows through disbursements of new FFEL Program loans as well as secondary market and other loan procurement activity. Purchases may include FFEL Program loans purchased through third-party purchase agreements. These agreements obligate the Company to purchase eligible loans offered for sale and/or originated by the other party. The contractual premium on the loans purchased under these contracts varies from agreement to agreement. The Company’s portfolio also contains private education loans originated through alternative programs developed for students who either seek additional financial assistance beyond that available through the government programs and other sources or do not qualify for federal government sponsored student loan programs. Private education loans are generally offered based on the borrower’s or co-signer’s creditworthiness. The Company’s private education loan portfolio includes CitiAssist Loans, the Company’s proprietary loan product, offered as a means to finance higher education costs that exceed borrowers’ available financial resources, including those available under the FFEL Program. In addition, the Company offers a private consolidation loan. Private education loans are prime rate-based with provisions similar to the FFEL Program, such as deferment of both principal and interest payments while the student is in school. In order to comply with certain legal and regulatory requirements, private education loans are originated by CBNA, the Company’s principal shareholder. In accordance with the provisions of an intercompany agreement, origination and servicing fees are charged to CBNA for the underwriting, disbursing and servicing of private education loans. Following full disbursement, the Company purchases all private education loans from CBNA. 48 The Company’s loans are summarized by program type as follows: December 31 (Dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 Federal Stafford Loans $ 8,687,483 $ 7,192,550 Federal Consolidation Loans 6,364,762 9,118,615 Federal SLS/PLUS/HEAL Loans 1,192,028 872,968 Private education loans 4,696,337 3,072,394 Total student loans held, excluding deferred costs 20,940,610 20,256,527 Deferred origination and premium costs 668,082 632,872 Student Loans held 21,608,692 20,889,399 Less: allowance for loan losses (42,115 ) (14,197 ) Student Loans held, net 21,566,577 20,875,202 Loans held for sale, excluding deferred costs 331,263 315,927 Deferred origination and premium costs 6,527 7,114 Loans held for sale 337,790 323,041 Other loans and lines of credit 87,437 76,117 Total loan assets $ 21,991,804 $ 21,274,360 The Company’s FFEL Program loan holdings are guaranteed by the federal government in the event of a borrower’s default, death, disability, bankruptcy, closed school, false certification or unpaid school refund, subject to risk-sharing provisions established by the federal government. Insurance on FFEL Program loans is provided by certain state or not-for-profit guarantors, which are reinsured by the federal government. The Higher Education Act requires every state to either establish its own guarantor or contract with another guarantor in order to support the education financing and credit needs of students at post-secondary schools. FFEL Program guarantors in each state generally guarantee loans for students attending schools in their particular state or region or guarantee loans for their residents attending schools in another state. FFEL Program loans are subject to regulatory requirements relating to servicing in order to maintain the loan’s guarantee. In the event of default on a student loan or a borrower’s death, disability or bankruptcy, the Company files a claim with the guarantor of the loan. As of December 31, 2007, the Company receives reimbursement on substantially all FFEL Program loan claims at a rate of 97% or 98%, depending on the origination date of the loan. FFEL Program loan claims are subject to rejection by the guarantor in the event of loan servicing or origination defects. If servicing or origination defects are identified, the claimed loan is rejected and returned to the Company for remedial loan servicing. During the remedial servicing period, usually lasting several months, interest income is not accrued. These loans in remediation were not material at both December 31, 2007 and 2006. If the guarantee on the rejected claim cannot be reinstated, the defaulted loan is written off against the allowance for loan losses, generally, within four months of the claim rejection. Guarantor claim payments on loans with minor servicing defects are subject to interest penalty deductions that are charged directly against current period interest income. 49 The following tables provide details of loans, excluding allowance for loan losses and deferred origination and premium costs, by type of guaranty or risk-sharing agreement: December 31 (Dollars in thousands) 2007 % 2006 % Federal Loan Guarantors New York State Higher Education Services Corp. $ 5,392,849 25 $ 6,390,072 31 EdFund 3,472,724 16 3,443,002 17 Other federal loan guarantors 2,705,888 13 2,519,015 12 United Student Aid Funds 2,073,709 10 2,637,356 13 American Student Assistance 1,456,649 7 282,319 1 Texas Guaranteed Student Loan Corp. 849,706 4 1,085,543 5 Great Lakes Higher Education 616,994 3 1,137,439 6 Total federally guaranteed 16,568,519 78 17,494,746 85 Private education loan insurers 3,871,659 18 2,410,076 12 Total guaranteed/insured 20,440,178 96 19,904,822 97 Other unguaranteed/uninsured (1) 919,132 4 743,749 3 Total loans $ 21,359,310 100 $ 20,648,571 100 (1) Primarily includes uninsured CitiAssist loans and lines of credit. Although private education loans do not carry a federal government guarantee, certain of these loans are insured by either Arrowood Indemnity Company (Arrowood), or United Guaranty Commercial Insurance Company of North Carolina/New Hampshire Insurance Company (UGCIC/NHIC). Arrowood was formerly the Royal Indemnity Company and is a part of Arrowpoint Capital Corp. UGCIC and NHIC are subsidiaries of American International Group (AIG). The Arrowood-insured private education loans that are submitted for default claim are subject to a risk-sharing loss of 5% of the sum of the outstanding principal and accrued interest balances. Under the UGCIC/NHIC program, which insured most private education loans originated during 2006 and 2007, defaults generally subject the Company to deductibles of 10% or 20% of the claim amounts. For UGCIC/NHIC insured loans originated since the second quarter of 2003, the Company is insured for losses up to a contractual maximum portfolio loss limits that range from 12.5% to 13.5%. If cumulative portfolio losses exceed these limits, the Company is exposed to 100% of subsequent losses. For loans insured during 2005 and 2006, the insurance premium is calculated under an experience-rated plan, which may require limited additional premium payments to be made in the future should performance be worse than the established parameters. The insurance provided by third-party agencies is provided on an individual loan basis. Certain private education loans are not insured and a portion of these uninsured loans is covered by risk-sharing agreements with schools and universities. The Company is exposed to losses of up to 100% on uninsured loans that do not have risk-sharing agreements. The risk-sharing agreements generally take one of two forms as follows: a) the school reimburses the Company for a specified percentage of the losses of 50% to 100% when the losses exceed an agreed upon threshold ranging from 2% to 9% or b) the school pays 20% to 30% of the total disbursed amount to compensate for future expected losses. Although these risk-sharing agreements reduces the Company’s overall risk, these programs generally provide for less coverage than private insurance coverage. 50 The allowance for loan losses provides a reserve for estimated risk-sharing and other credit losses on FFEL Program and CitiAssist Loans. Changes in the Company’s allowance for loan losses are as follows: (Dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 2005 Balance at beginning of year $ 14,197 $ 4,990 $ 5,046 Provision for loan losses 59,920 26,170 13,157 Charge offs (36,045 ) (19,624 ) (14,824 ) Recoveries 5,697 2,661 1,611 Other (1) (1,654 ) – – Balance at end of year $ 42,115 $ 14,197 $ 4,990 (1) Represents reserve amounts associated with loans securitized. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had $19 million and $16 million, respectively, of loans that ceased accruing interest. The Company also had $701 million and $719 million of loans that were greater than 90 days delinquent and were still accruing interest at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 3. OTHER ASSETS Other assets are summarized as follows: December 31 (Dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 Accrued interest receivable from student loan borrowers $ 649,219 $ 440,992 from federal government 106,686 126,929 Servicing asset from securitization activity (Note 14 and 15) 199,112 169,234 Equipment and computer software (1) 34,563 42,423 Collateral on derivatives with CBNA 86,699 11,431 Other 78,677 18,242 Total other assets $ 1,154,956 $ 809,251 (1) Amounts are reflected net of accumulated depreciation and software amortization of $53 million and $44 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Depreciation and software amortization expense totaled $14 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Included in equipment and computer software are capitalized internally developed software costs of $31 million and $38 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company capitalized $5 million and $7 million, respectively, in costs related to software development. The collateral on derivatives with CBNA is a cash reserve pledged against LIBOR based swaps and interest rate floor options. See Note 12 for further discussion of the Company’s interest rate swaps. 51 4. SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS Short-term borrowings are summarized below: December 31 (Dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 Amount Contracted Weighted Average Interest Rate Amount Contracted Weighted Average Interest Rate Notes payable $ 5,173,000 5.23 % $ 7,136,800 5.36 % Portion of long-term borrowings due within one year $ 8,200,000 4.92 % $ 4,000,000 5.26 % Total short-term borrowings $ 13,373,000 5.04 % $ 11,136,800 5.32 % At December 31, 2007 and 2006, short-term borrowings were made under the terms of an Omnibus Credit Agreement, as amended (Omnibus Credit Agreement) with CBNA, which expires in December 2009. Short-term borrowings have a remaining term to maturity of one year or less. The Company expects that each of these borrowings will be refinanced with new borrowings under the Omnibus Credit Agreement. The maximum aggregate credit limit available for combined short and long-term borrowings was $30 billion at December 31, 2007. The Company believes that the terms of these agreements are no less favorable to the Company than those that could be obtained from unaffiliated third parties. At December 31, 2007, all of the notes payable above had variable interest rates. 5. LONG-TERM BORROWINGS A summary of long-term borrowings follows: December 31 (Dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 CBNA Notes, based on LIBOR (note rates ranged from 4.84% to 5.17% at December 31, 2007), due July - August 2008 $ 5,900,000 $ 5,900,000 CBNA Notes, based on LIBOR or a strike rate, whichever is higher (note rate 5.17% at December 31, 2006), matured January 2007 – 2,000,000 CBNA Notes, based on LIBOR (note rate 5.35% at December 31, 2006), matured December 2007 – 2,000,000 CBNA Notes, based on LIBOR (note rate 5.03% at December 31, 2007), due December 2008 2,000,000 – CBNA Notes, based on LIBOR (note rate 5.03% at December 31, 2007), due December 2009 2,000,000 – CBNA Notes, fixed rate (note rate of 3.02% at December 31, 2007), due April 2008 300,000 300,000 CBNA Notes, fixed rate (note rate of 5.39% at December 31, 2007), due September 2016 100,000 – CBNA Notes, based on LIBOR or strike rate, whichever is higher (note rate of 5.04% at December 31, 2007), due January 2009 1,500,000 – CBNA Notes, based on LIBOR or strike rate, whichever is higher (note rate of 5.13% at December 31, 2007), due July 2010 2,000,000 2,000,000 CBNA Notes, based on LIBOR or strike rate, whichever is higher (note rate of 5.05% at December 31, 2007), due July 2015 1,000,000 1,000,000 CBNA Notes, based on prime rate, (note rate of 5.45% at December 31, 2007), due January 2010 1,500,000 – Less: portion of long-term borrowings due within one year (8,200,000 ) (4,000,000 ) Total long-term borrowings $ 8,100,000 $ 9,200,000 52 At December 31, 2007 and 2006, long-term borrowings were made under the terms of an Omnibus Credit Agreement with CBNA, the Company’s principal shareholder. The Omnibus Credit Agreement contains no material financial covenants or restrictions. Each one to three months, the rates reset on all LIBOR and prime based borrowings. At December 31, 2007, aggregate annual maturities on long-term debt obligations (based on final maturity dates) were as follows: $3.5 billion in 2009, $3.5 billion in 2010, $1.0 billion in 2015, and $0.1 billion in 2016. The Company seeks to minimize interest rate exposure by funding floating rate loans with floating rate liabilities and by closely matching the underlying rate basis of the assets with the liabilities. During 2007 and 2006, the Company held interest rate swap agreements to better match the interest rate characteristics of its borrowings with the interest rate characteristics of its student loan assets. See Note 12 for further discussion of the Company’s interest rate swaps. Approximately $4.5 billion of the Company’s outstanding short and long-term debt includes derivatives embedded in the respective debt instruments. These embedded derivatives have been determined to be clearly and closely related to the underlying debt instruments and, in accordance with SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended (SFAS 133), do not require bifurcation. Management considers these options as economic hedges to the floor income component of its assets. 6. OTHER LIABILITIES Other liabilities are summarized as follows: December 31 (Dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 Interest payable to CBNA (Note 9) $ 174,519 $ 167,868 Income taxes payable to CBNA (Note 11) 13,221 73,550 Liability from derivative agreements with CBNA (Note 12) 91,306 12,064 Accounts payable and other liabilities 116,128 205,379 Total other liabilities $ 395,174 $ 458,861 7. FEE AND OTHER INCOME A summary of fee and other income follows: Years Ended December 31 (Dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 2005 Income/(losses) related to residual interests $ 2,733 $ (15,391 ) $ (9,768 ) Servicing revenue net of valuation gains/(losses) on servicing assets 51,605 21,130 (2,764 ) Mark-to-market (losses)/gains on derivatives (32,961 ) 4,472 - Other origination and servicing fees from CBNA (Note 9) 7,271 7,457 6,725 Late fees 6,063 7,283 8,175 Other 1,590 3,910 738 Total fee and other income $ 36,301 $ 28,861 $ 3,106 53 8. OTHER EXPENSES A summary of other expenses follows: Years Ended December 31 (Dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 2005 Servicing, professional, guarantor and other fees $ 62,123 $ 56,707 $ 51,097 Depreciation and amortization 15,205 14,467 14,012 Data processing and communications 14,456 10,839 10,435 Advertising and marketing 8,635 10,533 9,934 Stationery, supplies and postage 6,040 6,773 6,455 Premises 3,005 2,952 2,503 Travel and entertainment 2,042 2,255 1,958 Other 6,384 4,303 4,844 Total other expenses $ 117,890 $ 108,829 $ 101,238 9. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Citibank, N.A. (CBNA), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Citigroup Inc. (Citigroup), owns 80% of the outstanding common stock of the Company. Pursuant to various intercompany agreements, a number of significant transactions are carried out between the Company and Citigroup, CBNA and/or their affiliates. Related party agreements with CBNA include an Omnibus Credit Agreement, a tax-sharing agreement and student loan originations and servicing agreements. In addition, the Company maintains a trust agreement with CBNA through which it originates FFEL Program loans. Also, the Company has an agreement for education loan servicing with Citibank (South Dakota), N.A. Management believes that the terms under which these transactions and services are provided are, in the aggregate, no less favorable to the Company than those that could be obtained from unaffiliated third parties. Detailed below is a description of, and amounts relating to, the Company’s transactions with either CBNA or other Citigroup affiliates that have been reflected in the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Income for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Other information about intercompany transactions is available as follows: for CitiAssist Loans, see Note 2; for short and long-term funding and interest rate swap transactions, see Notes 4, 5, and 12; for employee benefit related transactions, see Note 10; and for income tax matters, see Notes 1, 6 and 11. Years Ended December 31 (Dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 2005 Revenue Interest income $ 1,525 $ 411 $ 51 Interest expense (1,175,159 ) (1,212,928 ) (807,668 ) Fee and other (loss)/income: Derivative valuation (loss)/gain (32,961 ) 4,472 - Other origination and servicing fees 7,271 7,458 6,725 Operating Expenses Salaries and employee benefits Employee benefits and administration $ 11,041 $ 10,600 $ 9,351 Stock-based compensation 2,345 2,275 989 Other expenses Servicing, professional and other fees 50,890 46,489 40,889 Data processing and communications 6,699 6,238 7,057 Premises 2,973 2,930 2,490 Other 2,651 2,316 2,502 54 CBNA Omnibus Credit Agreement The Company had outstanding short and long-term unsecured borrowings with CBNA under the Omnibus Credit Agreement of $13.4 billion and $8.1 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2007 and $11.1 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2006. This agreement provides a maximum aggregate credit limit of $30 billion through December 31, 2009. Interest expense incurred under these borrowings is reflected in the table above. Interest Rate Swap and Option Agreements The Company is a party to interest rate swaps and options with CBNA, an investment-grade counterparty, to manage its interest rate risk exposure. CBNA requires the Company to remit cash into a margin account as collateral on these derivatives. The Company maintained collateral of $87 million and $11 million on these derivatives at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. For further information on the Company’s interest rate derivative agreements, see Note 12. Student Loan Origination Agreement and Servicing Fees Earned CitiAssist Loans are originated by CBNA through an intercompany agreement. Following full disbursement, the Company purchases all CitiAssist Loans at CBNA’s carrying value at the time of purchase, plus a contractual premium. Total CitiAssist Loans purchased by the Company for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 was $2.0 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively. Total premiums paid by the Company related to the 2007 and 2006 CitiAssist Loan purchases was $13 million and $11 million, respectively. At December 31, 2007, the Company was committed to purchase CitiAssist Loans of $1.2 billion. The Company also earns loan origination and servicing revenue for work performed on CitiAssist Loans held by CBNA prior to purchase by the Company. Servicing, Professional and Other Fees Paid The majority of the loan originations and servicing work on the Company’s FFEL Program and CitiAssist Loan portfolios was performed under the provisions of intercompany agreements with affiliates of the Company, including Citibank (South Dakota), N.A. The increases in the charges are primarily due to managed loan portfolio growth. Stock-based Compensation The Company participates in various Citigroup stock-based compensation programs under which Citigroup stock or stock options are granted to certain of the Company’s employees. The Company has no stock-based compensation programs in which its own stock is granted. The Company pays Citigroup directly for participation in certain of its stock-based compensation programs, but receives a capital contribution for those awards related to participation in the employee incentive stock option program. CBNA Tax-sharing Agreement The Company is included in the consolidated federal income tax return of Citigroup, as well as certain combined or unitary state/local income or franchise tax returns of Citigroup or its subsidiaries. As such, the Company pays its income taxes through CBNA. These tax apportionment expenses are based on the Company’s effective tax rates determined on a stand-alone basis and are reflected in the Company’s tax provision. Other Intercompany Arrangements Citigroup and its subsidiaries engage in other transactions and servicing activities with the Company, including cash management, data processing, telecommunications, payroll processing and administration, employee benefits, facilities procurement, and others. 55 10. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The Company’s employees are covered under various Citigroup benefit plans, including: medical and life insurance plans that cover active, retired and disabled employees; defined benefit pension; dental; defined contribution plan; salary continuance for disabled employees and workers compensation. Citigroup charges the Company a fee calculated as a fixed percentage of total salaries, referred to as the fringe rate. The fringe rate applied to salaries was 27% in both 2007 and 2006 and 26% for 2005. In determining the fringe rate, Citigroup considers the historical benefit and salary experience for all Citigroup employees, adjusted for expected changes in experience reflected in actuarial assumptions. Substantially all of the Company’s employees participate in Citigroup’s benefit plans. Any pension obligation pertaining to these plans is a liability of Citigroup. The fringe rate includes approximately $1 million for 2007, 2006 and 2005, representing the Company’s pension expense allocation. These amounts are included with other employee benefit costs in Employee benefits and administration in the related party transactions table in Note 9. 11. INCOME TAXES The provision for income taxes consists of the following: Years Ended December 31 (Dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 2005 Current Federal $ 98,525 $ 157,612 $ 69,435 State 16,331 23,517 8,489 Total current 114,856 181,129 77,924 Deferred Federal (153 ) (3,175 ) 96,928 State (26 ) (474 ) 11,851 Total deferred (179 ) (3,649 ) 108,779 Total income tax provision $ 114,677 $ 177,480 $ 186,703 The effective tax rate was 38.6%, 38.2% and 37.7% for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The following table presents the actual income tax provisions computed at the federal statutory income tax rate of 35%: Years Ended December 31 (Dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 2005 Income taxes computed at federal statutory rate $ 104,079 $ 162,502 $ 173,482 State tax provision, net of federal benefits 10,598 14,978 13,221 Total income tax provision $ 114,677 $ 177,480 $ 186,703 56 Deferred income taxes consist of the following: December 31 (Dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 Deferred Tax Assets Valuation adjustments of retained interests $ 26,312 $ 19,938 Income earned from securitization trusts 76,081 28,063 Allowance for loan losses 16,247 5,462 Other 3,805 5,319 Total deferred tax assets $ 122,445 $ 58,782 Deferred Tax Liabilities Deferred loan origination costs (201,401 ) (186,204 ) Internally developed software costs (10,536 ) (13,967 ) Gain on securitizations and other securitization related income/(loss) (193,625 ) (140,953 ) Other (4,345 ) (5,299 ) Total deferred tax liabilities (409,907 ) (346,423 ) Net deferred tax liabilities $ (287,462 ) $ (287,641 ) At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had deferred tax liabilities, net of deferred tax assets of $91 million and $93 million, respectively, for the tax effect of the gains on the loans securitized and other securitization-related income. 12. INTEREST RATE DERIVATIVE AGREEMENTS The Company enters into interest rate derivative agreements to help manage its exposure to interest rate movements. The counterparty to all of the Company’s derivative agreements is CBNA, an investment grade company. None of the derivatives held by the Company were designated as hedges and accordingly they did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under SFAS 133. The Company’s derivative positions are provided in the table below: December 31 (Dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 Fair Value Fair Value Notional Asset Liability Notional Asset Liability Prime / LIBOR Swaps $ – $ – $ – $ 4,000,000 $ – $ 761 Other LIBOR Based Swaps 8,495,000 34,492 2,113 8,035,000 462 1,803 Interest Rate Floor Options 8,743,266 1,372 89,193 6,200,000 – 9,500 The Company’s other LIBOR based swaps are intended to economically hedge the interest rate risk inherent in the Company’s residual interests. These swaps mature between 2009 and 2017. The Company’s interest rate floor options are written derivative contracts that are designed to function as economic hedges of the floor income component of the residual interests. The options mature between 2011 and 2023. 57 13. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (SFAS 107) The estimated fair value of the Company’s financial instruments is presented in the following table: December 31 (Dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 Carrying Value Estimated Fair Value Carrying Value Estimated Fair Value Financial Assets Loans, net $ 21,991,804 $ 22,303,074 $ 21,274,360 $ 21,710,092 Cash 25 25 6,570 6,570 Accrued interest receivable 755,905 755,905 567,921 567,921 Residual interests in loans securitized 633,074 633,074 546,422 546,422 Derivative asset 35,864 35,864 462 462 Servicing assets 199,112 199,112 169,234 169,234 Financial Liabilities Short-term borrowings $ 13,373,000 $ 13,373,000 $ 11,136,800 $ 11,136,800 Long-term borrowings 8,100,000 8,042,400 9,200,000 9,188,928 Derivative liability 91,306 91,306 12,064 12,064 Interest payable 174,519 174,519 167,868 167,868 In accordance with SFAS No. 107, Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments, (SFAS 107), the estimated fair values have been determined by the Company using available market information and other valuation methodologies that are described below. The fair value approximates the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. These estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment. Accordingly, the estimates may not be indicative of the amounts that the Company could realize in a current market exchange. Changes in assumptions could significantly affect the estimates. The excess of fair value over carrying value may vary from period to period based on changes in a wide range of factors, including LIBOR and commercial paper interest rates, portfolio mix of variable and fixed rate loans, growth of the portfolio, timing of contractual repricing, portfolio age, default rates and maturity or contractual settlement dates. Loans, Net The fair value of loans was calculated by discounting cash flows through expected maturity using the estimated current relevant yield curve for the interest rates. The carrying value is presented net of the allowance for loan losses. Cash and Accrued Interest Receivable and Payable Due to the short-term nature of these instruments, carrying value approximates fair value. Residual Interests in Loans Securitized and Servicing Assets The fair value of the residual interest in the loans securitized and the servicing assets were determined using a discounted cash flow model. Residual interests are recorded at fair value on the Consolidated Financial Statements. For more information on student loan securitizations, see Note 14. 58 Short-Term and Long-Term Borrowings The fair value of these instruments was calculated by discounting cash flows through maturity using estimated market discount rates. Interest rates on all of the Company’s short-term borrowings reset each one to three months. As a result, the Company believes that the carrying value of these borrowings approximates fair value. Derivatives Derivatives are used to manage interest rate risk. Fair value was determined by discounting the estimated cash flows that may arise from these instruments using current market prices. Derivatives are recorded at fair value on the Consolidated Financial Statements. 14. STUDENT LOAN SECURITIZATIONS The Company maintains a program to securitize certain portfolios of student loan assets. Under the Company’s securitization program, the loans are removed from the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and sold to an independent trust. In order to pay for the loan assets, the trust sells debt securities, backed by the student loan assets, to outside investors. A summary of the Company’s securitization transactions is presented in the table below: (Dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 2005 Student loans securitized during the period $ 2,876,812 $ 7,659,732 $ 4,245,719 Proceeds from student loans securitized during the period 2,907,581 7,591,048 4,261,833 Realized gains on loans securitized 70,814 189,017 129,578 The following table reflects amounts received from the securitization trusts: (Dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 Cash received from trusts for servicing $ 64,868 $ 32,242 Cash received from trusts on residual interests 65,388 24,844 The following table reflects receivables and payables related to the Company’s securitization trusts: (Dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 Receivable from trusts for servicing $ 6,356 $ 3,950 Payable to trusts for student loan payments received 17,249 11,494 During 2007 and 2006, the Company earned $67 million and $34 million, respectively, of servicing revenue for servicing the trust portfolios. Changes in the Company’s servicing assets are presented below: (Dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 Balance at beginning of period $ 169,234 $ 76,784 Cumulative effect adjustment – 2,435 Changes in fair value due to changes in inputs and assumptions 16,329 1,709 Other changes (1) (31,997 ) (14,996 ) Student loan securitizations 45,546 103,302 Balance at end of period $ 199,112 $ 169,234 (1) Amounts represent the effects of payments and the passage of time. 59 The cumulative effect adjustment in 2006 in the table above was related to the adoption of SFAS 156 and was recorded as an adjustment to beginning of the period retained earnings. See Note 1 for further information. The Company routinely refines its estimates used to value its retained interests as future events may deviate from forecasts. Such estimates, while based on relevant observable data, inherently involve significant judgment and uncertainty. The key assumptions used to value the residual interests in the assets securitized for the 2007-1 and 2007-2 trusts at the inception date of the securitizations were as follows: 2007-1 2007-2 Weighted average discount rate 10.2 % 10.5 % Constant prepayment rates 3.84 % 3.09 % Anticipated credit losses, net of insurance and guarantees 0.34 % 0.27 % Basis spread between LIBOR and Commercial Paper rate 0.11 % 0.12 % Utilization rate of borrower benefits: Automated clearing house 10.0 % 23.0 % On time payments 0.0 % 23.3 % The key assumptions used to value the residual interests in the securitization trusts were as follows as of December 31: 2007 2006 Weighted average discount rate: FFEL Program Consolidation Loans 10.6 % 10.0 % Private education loans 12.6 % 12.0 % Constant prepayment rates: FFEL Program Consolidation Loans 1.73% to 3.09 % 2.93% to 6.13 % Private education loans 13.03 % 12.41 % Anticipated credit losses, net of insurance and guarantees: FFEL Program Consolidation Loans 0.30 % 0.11 % Private education loans 0.81 % 1.10 % Expected basis spread between LIBOR and Commercial Paper rate 12.0 basis points 10.7 basis points Utilization rate of borrower benefits: Automated clearing house 10.0% to 40.2 % 17.5% to 39.8 % On time payments 0% to 41.3 % 14.5% to 36.5 % The key assumptions used to value the servicing assets of the securitization trusts were as follows as of December 31: 2007 2006 Weighted average discount rate: FFEL Program Consolidation Loans 5.8 % 6.0 % Private education loans 6.3 % 6.5 % Constant prepayment rates: FFEL Program Consolidation Loans 1.73% to 3.09 % 2.93% to 6.13 % Private education loans 13.03 % 12.41 % Weighted average servicing margin 25.0 basis points 25.0 basis points A sensitivity analysis is provided in the table below that shows the effects of adverse changes in each of the key assumptions used to determine the fair value of the retained interests. The adverse effect of the change in each assumption must be calculated independently while holding all other assumptions constant. Because the key assumptions may not be independent, the net effect of simultaneous adverse changes in the key assumptions may be different from the sum of the individual effects shown in the table. 60 The effects of the key assumptions on the residual interests and servicing assets are presented below: (Dollars in thousands) Residual Interests Servicing Assets Fair value at December 31, 2007 $ 633,074 $ 199,112 Discount rate 10% adverse change (22,833 ) (4,603 ) 20% adverse change (43,882 ) (9,073 ) Constant prepayment rate 10% adverse change (10,170 ) (3,049 ) 20% adverse change (19,920 ) (6,075 ) Anticipated net credit losses/defaults 10% adverse change (6,518 ) (1,214 ) 20% adverse change (12,972 ) (2,399 ) Servicing margin 10% adverse change – (19,361 ) 20% adverse change – (38,567 ) Basis spread 10% adverse change (7,205 ) – 20% adverse change (14,357 ) – Borrower benefits – ACH 10% adverse change (3,359 ) – 20% adverse change (6,772 ) – Borrower benefits – on time payments 10% adverse change (10,694 ) – 20% adverse change (21,357 ) – The Company continues to service the loans transferred to the trusts after securitization. As a result, the Company considers the securitized loans to be part of the Company’s managed loan portfolio. Principal amounts of loans managed, on-balance sheet loans and the related loan delinquencies (loans which are 90 days or more past due) are presented in the following table: December 31 (Dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 Principal amounts, at period end On-balance sheet loans $ 22,033,919 $ 21,288,557 Securitized amounts 14,476,309 12,375,339 Total managed $ 36,510,228 $ 33,663,896 Delinquencies, at period end On-balance sheet loans (1) $ 720,408 $ 775,345 Securitized amounts 413,175 217,090 Total managed (1) $ 1,133,583 $ 992,435 (1) Amounts include loans held for sale. 61 Credit losses, net of recoveries, for the Company’s managed loan portfolios are presented in the table below: Years Ended December 31 (Dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 2005 Credit losses, net of recoveries: On-balance sheet loans $ 30,348 $ 16,963 $ 13,213 Securitized amounts 6,661 211 – Total managed $ 37,009 $ 17,174 $ 13,213 15. FAIR VALUE (SFAS 156, 157 and 159) The Company determines fair value using valuation techniques which are based upon observable and unobservable inputs. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect the Company’s market assumptions. These two types of inputs are evaluated using the following fair value hierarchy: · Level 1 – Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets. · Level 2 – Quoted prices for similar instruments in active market, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active; and model derived valuations whose inputs are observable or whose primary value drivers are observable. · Level 3 – Instruments whose primary value drivers are unobservable. The following table presents the Company’s financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis for each of these hierarchy levels: December 31, 2007 (Dollars in Thousands) Level 2 Level 3 Assets Residual interests in securitized loans $ – $ 633,074 Other assets 60,068 199,112 Total Assets $ 60,068 $ 832,186 Liabilities Other liabilities $ 91,306 $ – Derivatives Derivatives are used to manage interest rate risk. Fair value was based upon market quotes received from CBNA. Derivatives are recorded at fair value and are included in Other assets and Other liabilities in the table above and on the Consolidated Financial Statements. For more information on derivatives, see Note 12. 62 Retained Interests in Securitized Loans The fair value of the retained interests in securitized loans, including residual interests and servicing assets, were determined using discounted cash flow models. Servicing assets are included in Other assets in the table above. Retained interests are recorded at fair value on the Consolidated Financial Statements. For more information on loan securitizations, see Note 14. The following table presents the changes in the Level 3 fair value category for the year ended December 31, 2007: (Dollars in Thousands) Residual Interests in Securitized Loans Other Assets Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 546,422 $ 169,234 Net unrealized gains(1) 61,910 27,036 Issuances and settlements 24,742 2,842 Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 633,074 $ 199,112 (1) Amount includes, as applicable, accreted interest which is included in Interest income and other unrealized gains which are included in Fee and other income in the consolidated statement of income. 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES The Company has obligations under several non-cancelable operating leases. Expenses related to those agreements totaled $3 million for 2007 and 2006 and $2 million for 2005. Included in these amounts are lease expenses with CBNA for the Pittsford, New York facility of $2 million for 2007 and 2006 and $1 million for 2005. This amount is included in Premises, in the related party transactions table in Note 9. The Pittsford, New York facilities agreement expires in May 2014. Future minimum lease payments at December 31, 2007 under agreements classified as operating leases with non-cancelable terms in excess of one year for the calendar years after December 31, 2007 are as follows: (Dollars in thousands) Minimum Lease Payments 2008 $ 2,993 2009 2,998 2010 2,885 2011 2,854 2012 2,901 Thereafter 4,270 Total $ 18,901 At December 31, 2007, FFEL Program loans in the amounts of $1.9 billion had committed, but not disbursed. In addition, the Company has forward purchase agreements, primarily with CBNA, that obligate the Company to purchase all loans offered for sale and/or originated by the other party. At December 31, 2007, the aggregate obligation under these commitments totaled $1.3 billion. 63 In addition, the Company provides lines of credit to certain institutions. Such lines are used by these organizations exclusively to disburse FFEL Program Loans which the Company will subsequently purchase. At December 31, 2007, these institutions had unused lines of credit of $184 million available to them. In addition, the Company had commitments of $331 million to sell certain portfolios of loans to third parties in the future. These amounts are recorded in loans held for sale. In the ordinary course of business, the Company is involved in various litigation proceedings incidental to and typical of the business in which it is engaged. In the opinion of the Company’s management, the ultimate resolution of these proceedings would not be likely to have a material adverse effect on the results of the Company’s operations, financial condition or liquidity. Since March 2007, the Company has been responding to and cooperating with a number of inquiries into the student loan industry. Several U.S. Congressional committees and the U.S. Department of Education commenced investigations of the student loan industry. The Company has responded to requests for certain information and documents in connection with these investigations. Additionally, the offices of various states’ attorneys general and certain federal authorities have also conducted investigations and/or have served formal or informal requests for information upon the Company. 17. SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED) (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) Fourth Third Second First 2007 Net interest income $ 91,683 $ 100,330 $ 102,877 $ 93,757 Provision for loan losses (24,078 ) (21,419 ) (3,895 ) (10,528 ) Net interest income after provision for loan losses 67,605 78,911 98,982 83,229 Gains on loans sold and securitized 27,229 15,815 51,040 17,774 Fee and other (loss)/income 22,070 (10,052 ) 9,420 14,863 Total operating expenses (45,591 ) (43,978 ) (45,751 ) (44,198 ) Income taxes (28,163 ) (15,695 ) (43,174 ) (27,645 ) Net income $ 43,150 $ 25,001 $ 70,517 $ 44,023 Basic and diluted earnings per common share $ 2.16 $ 1.25 $ 3.53 $ 2.20 Dividends declared per common share $ 1.43 $ 1.43 $ 1.43 $ 1.30 Common stock price: High $ 193.96 $ 212.46 $ 210.50 $ 216.06 Low $ 106.75 $ 161.38 $ 178.03 $ 183.00 Close (at quarter end) $ 110.00 $ 180.32 $ 203.90 $ 185.92 64 (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) Fourth Third Second First 2006 Net interest income $ 90,840 $ 98,404 $ 115,188 $ 107,099 Provision for loan losses (7,664 ) (7,065 ) (5,302 ) (6,140 ) Net interest income after provision for loan losses 83,176 91,339 109,886 100,959 Gains on loans sold and securitized 45,491 81,067 82,521 6,751 Fee and other income 11,898 (2,433 ) 14,247 5,149 Total operating expenses (43,820 ) (43,992 ) (40,385 ) (37,561 ) Income taxes (35,709 ) (48,170 ) (64,459 ) (29,143 ) Net income $ 61,036 $ 77,811 $ 101,810 $ 46,155 Basic and diluted earnings per common share $ 3.05 $ 3.89 $ 5.09 $ 2.31 Dividends declared per common share $ 1.30 $ 1.30 $ 1.30 $ 1.08 Common stock price: High $ 210.24 $ 202.00 $ 241.00 $ 233.00 Low $ 183.50 $ 160.65 $ 167.00 $ 209.23 Close (at quarter end) $ 207.30 $ 192.18 $ 202.00 $ 233.00 65 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION INFORMATION Form 10-K, Annual Report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, Commission File Number 1-11616. The Company is incorporated in the State of Delaware; its I.R.S. Employer Identification Number is 16-1427135; the address of the principal executive offices is 750 Washington Boulevard, Stamford, CT 06901; and its phone number is (203) 975-6861. The Company’s common stock is registered pursuant to section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “STU”. The Company is a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933). The Company is required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Student Loan Corporation (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein and will not be contained in the Company’s 2007 Proxy Statement incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K, or in any amendment to this Form 10-K. The Company is a large accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). The Company is not a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). The aggregate market value of the four million shares of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the Company as of the close of trading on June 29, 2007 was approximately $816 million. As of February 22, 2008, there were 20 million shares of the Company’s common stock outstanding. Certain information has been incorporated by reference, as described herein, into Part III of this annual report from the Company’s 2008 Proxy Statement. 66 EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES The following exhibits are either filed herewith or have been previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are filed herewith by incorporation by reference: · The Student Loan Corporation’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation · The Student Loan Corporation’s By-Laws, as amended · Material Contracts · Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals · Powers of Attorney of The Student Loan Corporation’s Directors Anavi, Bailey, Beckmann, Doynow, Drake, Garside, Glover, Handler, Levinson, and Moseman. · Certifications pursuant to Section 302 and Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 A more detailed exhibit index has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Stockholders may obtain copies of that index or any of the documents on that index by writing to: The Student Loan Corporation, Investor Relations, 750 Washington Boulevard, 9th Floor, Stamford, CT 06901 or on the Internet at www.studentloan.com. Financial Statements filed for The Student Loan Corporation: · Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 · Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 · Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 · Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 67 10-K CROSS REFERENCE INDEX This Annual Report and Form 10-K incorporate into a single document the requirements of the accounting profession and the Securities and Exchange Commission, including a comprehensive explanation of 2007 results. Part I Page Item 1 Business 2, 21-26 Item 1A Risk Factors 27-31 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 